ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u1	Today, when we are discussing this proposal for an initiative, we will receive the answer in the first period and the second period. I would like to welcome the initiators. They are supported in trade-K by Gijsbert Leertuwer and Daniëlle Koster. I would also like to welcome the Minister for Education and the Secretary of State for Education. They are here today as advisers to the Chamber. I call Mr Bishop for his answer in the first term of the initiators.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u2	Mr. Chairman. I shall begin by thanking colleagues for the questions they asked in the first term of the Chamber. The questions testify to a thorough understanding of the initiative proposal. The questions also give the applicants the opportunity to clarify the intentions and thoughts in parts. I thank the spokesmen for that. We clustered the questions in three blocks. That has to do with the fact that there are three proposers, but our input actually fell a bit into three blocks. Each of the proposers is therefore responsible for one block. I'll take care of the first block later. It's about quality, robustness and supervision. Mr Van Meenen will then discuss horizontal accountability and the stimulating role of the inspection in the second block. Mr Rog will conclude with the third block. In this he will deal with the own strength of education. We realize that there is a disadvantage to this division. We will not follow the order of the speakers in the first term of the Chamber. The different insertions run a bit through the different blocks. I hope, however, that the Chamber will be served all the better, precisely because of its inner cohesion. Mr President, allow me to open my block with a quote. Each school supervisor shall use the greatest possible care to ensure that the education of young people in schools is improved, improved and of more substantial or more extensive usefulness; that the teachers of youth are more and more able to give such education, encouraged and rewarded for such merit, and improved by increasing their income where this can be done. The latter is a wink to especially the SP; that will be clear. That the laws already laid down or to be defined for the School system are known and observed, and that all obstacles to this are removed as far as possible by care and determination, and finally that the improvement of the School system, in general, is not a burden, but much more regarded and advocated as a beneficial, necessary and enforceable establishment. Before anyone now gets the impression that he missed the last letter from the Secretary of State or the Minister for Inspection, I would like to explain that this text comes from the first instruction ever drawn up for what we would now call the education inspectors. Then they were called school guardians. The text dates back to 1801. I have adapted it here and there, but if you look at the content, you will see the same ambition as the ambition that the inspection still has today. We have a system in our country which monitors the quality and soundness of education. The ambition is to be of service to that education. That is also the thinking behind this initiative proposal. I come to my first block, entitled: quality, robustness and supervision. These are, by the way, the three sub-topics which I would like to address. What is this proposal really about? Is this bill mainly a hobby of lawyers or does it also affect the daily work of the teacher and the director? What does the proposal have to do with the student in the classroom and the parents who choose a school for their child? From the contributions of Mr Beertema and Mrs Siderius, there was a need for concrete examples. That's understandable. We'd like to get into that right away. The initiators point out in advance that according to the Council of State, not only the system but also the practice of educational supervision is far removed from the text and the intention of our Constitution. Mr Dijkgraaf referred to this. The motivation of the initiators to deal with this proposal has precisely to do with the practice of the teacher and the director. It also has to do with the student's interest. That is why my granddaughter indicated this morning that she has been willing to attend the debate on this initiative for seven months now. I welcome this moral support. It's also for her and the children you're responsible for. It is about setting up good education, not so much by prescribing how it should be organized, but by supporting it by properly organising the second line, the inspection. In recent years, this proposal has proved necessary in order to remove a number of practical bottlenecks for schools. What are these problems in practice about? They concern, for example, the kindergarten teacher who is skilled in the development of her preschoolers and has an insight into the possibilities for development, but who feels that she must also take a kindergarten test against her will, which she has no faith in in fact. For example, it is about teachers in special education who are told that the educational offer for their pupils is fantastic and is tailored to their pupils, but who are then told that more pupils from special education, from their school, should end up in business, while they are convinced together with their parents that this is not the route that will make the children happy. And it's about parents, students and teachers who love the way they do at school. There are hardly any fights. Troubles rarely happen. There's a high degree of involvement at school, together. There's a safe atmosphere. However, they are told that the school is inadequate in this respect, because there is no "specific offer of social competences with standardised tools." That is what this proposal is about, for example. All such points can cause short circuit between schools and inspection. Teachers and school leaders sometimes resist, but usually feel the weaker party. Thus precious energy is lost, precious energy is wasted. If there is no short-circuit, it is often because schools do not know better or rest in the course of events. Or those involved are throwing each other off the hook. The initiators want to put an end to these situations. This proposal ensures that the energy that is now wasted and sometimes puffed up or turned into annoyance can be directed towards education itself. Finally, the proposal also aims to ensure that the measures that the public authorities can eventually take against schools are well-founded. Mr Beertema asked for examples in which government action in legal proceedings was inadequate. These examples are not so many, because schools often don't let it get that far. You're always the underlying party. Let me give you one example: that is the Islamic primary school in Amsterdam, which in 2011 achieved a legal victory in terms of citizenship education because the justification for the funding sanction that was taken was not in order. We all want to avoid such unfortunate situations. There must be clarity about the demands that the public authorities can and cannot make to schools. The boundaries between the responsibility of government, schools and parents are sometimes too vague. We are convinced that this initiative proposal can improve this. I come to the first sub-theme: quality. If the relationship between schools and the inspection becomes unclear, the key question raised by Mrs Keijzer is: who owns the quality of education? Who decides what needs to be done in education? This point was also raised in the debate between Mrs Straus and Mr Voordewind. What is the position of parents and schools? And what is the role of the government? Our Constitution states that schools and parents themselves can determine their views on education and quality. The government should protect this freedom of citizens and not interfere in it. That is the constitutional line. This freedom is not necessarily given or necessary evil, but is a necessary condition for quality and improvement of quality. On this basis, the initiators would like to draw another line. This freedom of education creates space for the development of creativity, diversity and even competition. So we have to be careful about that. At the same time, of course, the public authorities must also set standards that each school must meet. Indeed, freedom often causes happiness, but sometimes also leads to results that are to cry about. Then a government can't sit still. Freedom cannot be without clear limits and accountability. Mr Beertema asked the important question: what is the quality? He gave the answer himself in the form of the assumption that it is still difficult to establish quality. Mr Voordewind stressed the downside of the need to define the quality of parents. And the initiators agree with both positions. A democratic government can only have a limited view of the quality of education. Quality is not a technical and neutral concept that can be calculated with a machine. Quality is packed with assumptions, values, opinions, preferences. The quality of education is a container in which in addition to bare arithmetical amounts there are personal preferences and philosophical beliefs. Does the school consciously choose to do a lot of art or perhaps just sports? This can determine part of the quality of education. Does the school have a specific philosophical basis and, if so, what choices do they make? Do students have five equal school days or do they also have an afternoon off? This can also have to do with quality. Do teachers work with a crayon or just with a computer? The answers to such questions play a major role for parents and their children. Parents often know very well which parts of the quality are important to them. However, the government cannot give the best answer to such questions objectively and simply. If the government were to place a hierarchy between the different components that are all part of the quality, the educational quality container could be simplified into a label. Such a label does not take sufficient account of the diversity of parents' wishes, and we must prevent this from happening to our firm conviction. What the government must do is to lay down minimum requirements for those parts of the quality that are, broadly worn, truly indispensable. Those are the so-called robustness requirements. This brings me to the second sub-theme: the validity. It is not an unnecessary luxury to consider the function of adequacy requirements. In any case, the initiators have noticed that their function, value and scope are often underestimated. It would only be a paper reality or a defective check-off list. The opposite is true, however. In addition to the necessary points of ticking, the system of validity requirements, as we now formally know in our education system, guarantees that a little under the dust has disappeared due to all kinds of developments, also a living reality and a culture of quality improvement. The purpose of this proposal is therefore to re-evaluate the adequacy requirements. After all, these requirements are the backbone of our quality of education. When they're in order, you'll have the core, the core of quality education. With these demands, the government can fulfil its constitutionally anchored care for education. The public authorities can thus prevent education from remaining inadequate and the freedom of citizens or of schools or education becomes a problem for society. In response to Mrs Straus' question, the initiators confirm that the inspection by clearly setting up supervision of the adequacy requirements ensures that education is in order. That is what supervision is for. The package of robustness requirements is now wide and very varied. A few examples. I am not exhaustive in my list, because that would take a lot of time. An indication: a bare list in normal font covers about one and a half A4's. What are you thinking? There are demands on the supply of education, elaborated in key goals. There is a system for the competence of teachers, also with the elaboration of competence requirements. Pupils' admission has been extensively regulated, with recently added care obligations in the context of appropriate education. Schools should account for learning outcomes; this accountability, with comprehensive reference levels and minimum standards for mathematics and language. That, too, is a necessity. Parents should be adequately informed about education and sufficiently involved if additional support for the child is needed. Teachers should use not only the apprenticeship tracking system, but also the child abuse reporting code. The competent authority shall ensure the safety of pupils in a broad sense. That, too, is a necessity. And there's a lot more.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u3	Thank you, Mr Bishop, for this comprehensive explanation of the merits. In the beginning, you said that the monitoring of the adequacy requirements has disappeared a little below the dust. Do you have any idea with this amendment of the law how to wipe the dust off these requirements?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u4	Yeah, I think there are two stages in that. If this bill is passed and the law has come into force, then the inspection will have to focus on the adequacy requirements at that time. It would then appear that in the light of developments there should be an update of a certain necessity or that something is actually dated and could be disposed of. So you get the second phase. We would also like to discuss this in Chamberwide, if that is what we have been given in this cabinet period. We would then be able to look at all the requirements. However, if you are already starting to vitalise the existing soundness requirements, you already have a very powerful basis that ensures that good education is given. If the school doesn't do that, if it doesn't meet the standards, there will be consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u5	I thank Mr Bishop for this answer. Here's what I'm wondering. Does Mr Bishop initiate the two stages he sees himself, or should the House take the initiative? I don't read that in the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u6	If that is considered desirable, I could imagine that the Chamber would table a motion stating that it would be desirable to carry out a review of the adequacy requirements. We have not deliberately tried to update the adequacy requirements in this legislative proposal, because that is actually a different discussion. We are concerned with setting up supervision, but we are open to looking at it. In short, the school that meets the current adequacy requirements, and that must be done, cannot in fact provide critical education, because then it fails to meet its requirements and the ultimate consequence of this may be that the funding will be terminated. It can also lead to less far-reaching consequences. Then there will be other sanctions. The authors follow Mr Beertema's argument that the requirements of validity are too limited, therefore not. I indicated in the interrupting debate just now that it would never hurt to review and update the whole package of adequacy requirements. As well as updating the subject periodically, you need to look at this regularly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u7	For my part, too, I would like to congratulate the authors of this bill. My colleague Siderius has already complimented the proposers in the first term. I'm replacing her now. We are in principle in favour of this bill, but we have also asked a number of questions about what Mr Bishop just spoke about. Does Mr. Bishop know Mr. Zoontjens' article entitled "View on the cutting table: Great differences of opinion on the role of inspection in po and vo"? That article appeared September this year. Mr. Zoontjens also criticizes the law. For example, he writes: "Following quality requirements is not just about good education. For example, it is not possible, on the basis of robustness requirements alone, to explain why learning outcomes are inadequate. The inspection needs aspects other than robustness requirements in order to identify inadequate learning outcomes and to identify improvement points." Can Mr Bishop respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u8	Sure. First of all, I would like to thank Mr Van Dijk for his congratulations, his congratulations and his appreciation for this proposal. We have taken note of the article. The debate that has been sparked in it is very recognizable. That will always be the subject of discussion. Even if you redefine the validity requirements, the question remains: is it sufficient now or does it need to be done a little more? We have deliberately chosen, within the framework of this legislative proposal, to limit the adjustment of the adequacy requirements to the absolutely necessary minimum. We are in favour of taking a closer look at this and keeping the whole area under review, especially if the Chamber deems it desirable. However, I do not entirely share the fact that it is not entirely sufficient at the moment with the author of the article. Let me put it in perspective. We had an earlier version of this initiative proposal in line with purely sec. requirements. This was commented on in the opinion of the Education Council, among other things. The room saw that. That comment was a bit in line with that of Mr. Zoontjens. At that time we considered whether our line was right. Then, in our own-initiative proposal, we made an adjustment which places the school plan at the heart of education at school level. So that school plan is a necessity; that's what you have to have as a school. In that school plan, a school must take account of the educational and didactic choices made by the school. This is linked to the school's vision of education. So in a derivative sense it takes more, you might say. Just, sec, a school plan is no guarantee of appealing, good and vital education. What is in the school plan, however, offers the inspector the opportunity to enter into the conversation with the school director, so the competent authority: how do you organise the education? So, through the stimulating role of the inspection, the improvement in education can be started. So proper requirements remain at the heart of the matter. And especially through the school plan, in which all kinds of things are accounted for, the inspection has a hook to start the conversation at school level. The initiative proposal has also been explicitly adapted to this. We've paid more attention to that accent. That's what the bill is about right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u9	I believe that it should be a question of whether a school offers quality and whether this law offers sufficient instruments to ensure that it does so. I have seen that the proposers have made a letter of amendment with the school plan as a means of getting a better understanding of it. But the question that Mr. Zoontjens also asks is: how can you find out why if the learning outcomes of a school do not meet? Mr Bishop says that this could be done through the school plan. Can he then explain to me again how this is going with his legislative proposal in hand, and how is there not going to be a discussion about the content of the school plan rather than about the quality of the school?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u10	Let us take that concrete example. The learning outcomes are found to be inadequate. Achieving good learning outcomes is a necessity, so the school does not meet the robustness requirements in this respect. Then the inspection will start the conversation. How is that even possible? What does your pedagogical concept look like? What are your didactic principles? How did you set up your education? Did you secure the continuous learning lines? That is, by the way, a valid requirement. So you get a conversation about the organization of education, and then there's a lot more to it than just, sec, that requirement of correctness. While the need to be sound remains at the core, every opportunity is created, especially if there is reason to do so, but also if schools themselves would like to do so, to discuss the other aspects of education. In this way, the inspection, from a different role than it is now, can be a powerful incentive to achieve a quality impact at such a school. We have, of course, talked about this on a regular basis: in our view, this inspection will become the knowledge broker at the same time. He knows which schools are doing well. For example, they can bring schools into contact with each other: "I see you are struggling with this. Why don't you take a look over there? That school's had the same problem, and that's how it solved it. Maybe you can take advantage of that." In this way, you organize the peer review in a natural way, which education will mostly have to deal with if we want to make a quality impact. There are still a lot of possibilities in the elaboration and implementation of these requirements.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u11	In the first instance, I asked for concrete examples which show that a significant instrument must be taken up as an initiative law and that it cannot be enough to incorporate the existing law into the points mentioned by Mr Bishop. As far as I am concerned, that would be quite possible. He has given a number of concrete examples, but they do not convince me that this is necessary. Mr Bishop spoke, for example, about the annoyance of the kindergarten test. I can remember that I differed quite a bit from Mr Van Meenen on that point. He suggested it as some kind of exam of fear-sweet bathing toddlers. Of course it's not. A kindergarten test is the first phase of a apprenticeship follow-up system in group one and two. We should be pleased with that, because it measures the progress of a student's learning path. You do that on the basis of pictures and questions like: is this student standing, is he sitting or is he bending down? That's what a kid like that has to answer. That is not an exam, but there seems to be annoyance about that in the kindergarten teacher mentioned by Mr Bishop. Her annoyance is so great that she is unable to put all her creative energy into the teaching process, because she can hardly live with it. Mr Bishop now wants to get rid of this by means of an initiative law. He also mentions a school that has a good climate and so on, but has no offer of measurable social competences. The same school has hardly any cases of bullying, says Mr Bishop. Such a school must have plague protocols, students must come into contact with social competences that make it clear...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u12	Mr Beertema, would you like to come to your question, because this is an interruption?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u13	I come to my question. Are these the concrete examples that should convince me that this initiative legislation is very much needed?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u14	Thanks for the question. These examples might help Mr Beertema to make the choice of support for this initiative proposal. However, it is a matter of constant concern. It must be measurable, it must be standardised instruments. At a time when a government prescribes a set of standardised instruments for education, it limits the educational, teaching and educational freedom and scope of the school. If schools choose to do so, there is nothing against it, but if schools give this shape and content in a different way, who are we as a government to say that it is not allowed? If we look at the assessment states, the inspection lists and the indicators on which a school is assessed, there is a great deal of objection from the point of view of education and, I believe, from the point of view of the government. All kinds of formal legal requirements, the adequacy requirements and additional requirements, which have sometimes been developed by the inspection, come together in a single overview. It's all mixed up. It is not clear to a school whether it has to comply formally with a requirement or whether it has more of the status of an opinion from the inspection. Let me give you one example.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u15	Mr Bishop, I do not want to cut you down too much, but there are a number of hours allocated to this discussion. These are interruptions with answers. I would ask Members in the Chamber and in Box K to limit it a little. There's another debate tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u16	I'll try to keep it limited. That ambiguity, impurity and mixing of formal demands and informal desires, or perhaps a little more formal desires that are not legally secured, is a serious flaw. That has actually been the reason for this initiative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u17	If you want to get rid of the kindergarten test, as it is popularly called, may I conclude that you also want to get rid of the rest of the apprenticeship follow-up system?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u18	No. The apprenticeship follow-up system is one of the prerequisites. We're not working on the apprenticeship tracking system. We do not meet the requirements, except for a few small parts, because we believe that this was inevitable. I'll come back to that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u19	We're talking about the demands. One of the demands we make to our schools is that they pay attention to sexual diversity and sexual education. Mr Bishop has also seen the letter which shows that there is a great deal of concern as to whether this proposal for an own-initiative act is sufficiently secure. VOS/ABB sent a letter of fire about that. Have the initiators been able to remove the concerns of this club?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u20	Thanks for the question. As far as we are concerned, this initiative proposal does not change these requirements at all. Schools simply have to comply with the way in which these requirements are now applied. That applies to citizenship. That's true of sexual diversity. This applies to a number of other issues that have also been mentioned, for example in the area of social security. With this initiative, we do not want to change this. If we wanted to, this is not the instrument for that. This remains unchanged and unchanged. As it now proceeds, it also remains applicable under the regime of this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u21	Thank you for this cliff-and-ready answer. Maybe you can tell us how that noise came about after all. You say very clearly that this was never the intention, but that noise is still there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u22	That's for us too...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u23	I call Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u24	Thank you. Excuse me, Mr. Chairman, I'm always a little too quick in my response, but you keep me strictly to the rules. I can't quite explain it. I've noticed. That has also led us to communicate openly about it and to say that this really has nothing to do with it. I also saw that VOS/ABB supported this initiative in response to the letter from the directors. That mistrust or that thought has apparently been sufficiently removed. I hope that this clear statement will reassure you. The schools retain their legal space; that does not change anything. The initiators share Mr Beertema's concern that the inspection should have sufficient leads to investigate schools. We were just talking about it in the interrupting debate. Practice shows that the need to maintain existing robustness requirements is more urgent than the creation of new standards. Look, for example, at an important point such as teacher competence. I have always been surprised at the way in which the discussions on this issue are conducted in politics and what measures are being devised. Of course, the inspection must be able to be on top of the fact that teachers are competent, but the monitoring of compliance with this requirement was not felt or hardly felt by schools for years. As a school director, I was never asked what was going on with the power and the percentage of incompetence and what was being done about it. Schools were not strongly challenged when the appointment of unauthorized teachers was repeatedly renewed. Jurisdiction plays a crucial role, and that is why this is a strange situation. There is already a world to be won if the government were to pay careful attention to compliance with the robustness requirements. All kinds of additional, non-legally anchored quality aspects have a major flaw, which does not apply to the adequacy requirements. In fact, the government cannot deal with such quality aspects if there are real problems. Such a situation undermines the position and authority of the inspection. The initiators believe that there are better methods of encouraging education in areas not covered by the adequacy requirements. I have already referred to the debate that will inevitably take place in the debate on the matter. That conversation won't just be a formality. It's not a review interview, but it's a conversation in which the school has to answer for itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u25	It appears from the example given by Mr Bishop that the inspection does not take sufficient account of the soundness of the situation. That's a big deal. Have the initiators taken a broader look at this, or is this something that needs to be re-examined? It should, of course, at least be the case every year at every school, that the level of education and the competence of teachers are closely monitored.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u26	Some of the prerequisites are in full interest, such as learning outcomes. That's fine; there's nothing wrong with that and it should stay that way. However, there are also robust requirements that have really disappeared under the dust throughout the whole process of autonomisation that has been going on about schools. The limited interest in the question of jurisdiction is one of them. That's what we're running into right now, and something has to be done about it. The correctness requirement should be removed from the dust and should simply be given a central position. The inspection shall monitor: what about the number of unauthorised persons and what actions are being taken to ensure that the unauthorised persons are authorised within a specified period of time? That is where the schools have to assume their responsibilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u27	Should I consider this call as a call to the inspection? Does Mr Bishop call upon the inspection to take its duties in this area, which are legally guaranteed, sufficiently seriously, or does he call on the Chamber to do something about it? Who exactly is this call addressed to?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u28	The call is actually addressed to the inspection, but I wouldn't really call it a call. I am convinced that, if this bill comes into force and the inspection organises supervision in this way, the requirements of soundness will be put back at the centre. It'll come on its own. I would say, "Room," let us not think of all the things that we impose on education or prescribe for inspection. No, this will happen. The inspection will have to reorganise the monitoring of education.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u29	In the annex to the documents they have sent us, the initiators have made a very nice overview of all the different requirements. We have already discussed this in the previous debate on the matter with Mr Bishop. Mr Dijkgraaf is actually referring to it. Mr Bishop is asking us today to say goodbye to the quality assessment as we know it today and to return to the proper requirements. That is a good goal, but those requirements are covered in dust. Mr Bishop himself just recognized that. In doing so, Mr Bishop wants to leave the quality requirements and return to the list of adequacy requirements without considering whether that list in 2015 is still what we think it should be.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u30	That is not entirely the case. We must avoid the idea that the requirements of soundness have been established once and have not been adapted since then. These requirements have been regularly extended, last but not least with the obligation of care in the context of appropriate education. We have also had a whole discussion on social security. That has been looked at very carefully. How far does the need for safety extend at school? Those requirements have therefore been constantly extended. At the same time, we note that some of the requirements of soundness have been gradually slipped away. In this context, I mentioned the school plan and the supervision of a teacher's competence. In that sense, you might want to look again at whether all these requirements are still up to date. The list of robustness requirements is one and a half pages long and as such has no structural deficits. It's not completely out of time, redundant or anything like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u31	I can see that there are a lot of them, that some of them have indeed not been examined so long ago, that there are also valid requirements which I wonder if we would write that down in this way in 2015 and that there is consistency between the robustness requirements in the po and vo. Would it not be wise, in parallel with the fact that we are discussing this decision in principle here today, to actively review these requirements, including the way in which we think the inspection should monitor them?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u32	At first glance that sounds very logical and also very sympathetic. Yet there is a disadvantage: that you then take the snapshot of this moment as a starting point, while it is actually something you should periodically review. I would like to draw your attention to the suggestion I made just now when I said that if there is a motion calling for it, it could be an excellent follow-up as far as we are concerned. We have kept as far away as possible from updating the list of adequacy requirements, as this legislative proposal focuses on the establishment of supervision. When we talk about the subject, about the subject of supervision and the instruments, we are actually talking about a bit of a different discussion. But Mrs Straus thinks that I am on her side when it comes to the idea that this debate should be conducted.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u33	I have a very brief question for clarification. I don't think so at all. It is true that there is an actor's commitment to the competence of teachers. Mr Bishop comes from education. He did, too. Mr Van Meenen is also from education. In my opinion, he has had to contend with this requirement for years, and he has indeed acted on it by talking to teachers and ensuring that they are given the powers. I don't know any better than that happens. If that is not the case, Mr Van Meenen and Mr Bishop will be left to deal with.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u34	That apple I like to peel with you once, but not at this point. Mr Beertema puts his finger on the very point. Mr Van Meenen probably was not, however, ever questioned by the inspection about the state of affairs with regard to the levels of competence. Despite this fact, as school leaders, we have been constantly behind our colleagues who were not yet competent. We have also set limits at some point. That has also had consequences. You did it because you thought it affected the quality of education. But I have always found it strange that I have never been asked to give an insight into the state of affairs regarding the levels of competence. It has never been asked: what routes are there and what deadlines and courses are involved? I would have liked to have been asked for that, because that also helps you to conduct good personnel policy, both towards your staff and towards your educational offerings and your staff provision.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u35	Please continue with the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u36	On the basis of these considerations, two main points can be identified in the proposal. First of all, the government must clearly define which elements in education are so fundamental that they must be covered by the minimum set of robustness requirements. Secondly, it makes a substantial difference for the action of the public authorities whether or not elements are covered by the minimum set of robustness requirements. It is therefore necessary to define what really needs to be included in the adequacy requirements: what is the minimum? This has implications for the action of the public authorities in relation to the requirements of soundness and what comes with them. I'll work both lines out after this. What is and is not covered by the adequacy requirements? The legislator must always carefully consider the requirements of education. The Education Council has rightly pointed out that the government must be reluctant to make demands. Obligations shall be permitted only if their necessity has been demonstrated. A good example of such a consideration is Mrs Jadnansing's question: to what extent should the inspection pay attention to responding to differences by teachers? That's an excellent question. Should this be a condition for good education? The initiators are happy to discuss this. There is no doubt in our minds that it is essential that education does justice to differences between pupils and that the inspection pays attention to this. A necessary condition laid down in the law concerns the appointment of teachers, for example. Quality begins with teachers learning in their training to take into account differences between pupils. In addition, there are all kinds of concrete obligations. The answer to the question to what extent the inspection should pay attention to the ability of teachers to respond to differences between pupils is: yes, it is part of good education. This is only an excellent aspect of the need to ensure that this is done. In addition, there are other concrete obligations. Education must be adapted to the development of pupils by means of an apprenticeship follow-up system. For example, there needs to be a development perspective for students who need additional support. It should not therefore have the effect of suggesting from the inspection that it would be nice to have such a development perspective for other pupils as well. No, it's limited to the students who need extra support. The initiators are of the opinion that the government has set sufficient frameworks. Following this, it is the responsibility of the competent authority to work on the competence of teachers, for example on the basis of the mandatory competence file. When the inspection examines this issue, it will of course have to take account of these legal frameworks. In investigations and reports, restraint of the inspection may be expected when applying additional or alternative criteria that are not laid down in the law. Members have asked several questions about the concrete impact of the legislative proposal on the substance of the adequacy requirements. Are the existing requirements left untouched? We just had an interrupting debate with Mrs Straus. Are the existing requirements left untouched, or is supervision restricted by the expiry of certain robustness requirements? As I said, the proposers have chosen to take the existing robustness requirements as their starting point and to make as little as possible changes as part of this legal process. We point to the warning of the Education Council that new demands must be made with restraint and in a careful process. According to the initiators, this also applies to the removal of robustness requirements. So nothing changes with regard to the specific questions that have been raised on this point. Let me now turn to the second line: the difference between the supervision of soundness and the other tasks of the inspection. The second main line of the legislative proposal is that there must be a fundamental difference between the elements that do and do not rely on robustness requirements. Only robustness requirements can be monitored. Indeed, it is a basic principle in administrative law that supervision is aimed at compliance with legal requirements. This applies to all supervisors, including the education inspection. The legislative proposal therefore makes a clear distinction between the monitoring and the other tasks of the inspection. The inspection shall be responsible for promoting the quality of education across the board. But that's not all part of the oversight. The inspection must therefore ensure that it also assesses, delivers judgements and makes normative rulings only in the context of supervision. They must therefore always be based on the adequacy requirements. Only then can the inspection indicate where the school is fundamentally inadequate. In addition to monitoring the adequacy requirements, it must be absolutely clear to schools that they are concerned with insights and advice from the inspection, which the school may deviate from if it so wishes without giving rise to sanctions. Those insights and advices therefore have a different status than the judgment. If there is that clarity, schools often appreciate comments from the inspection. The inspection has now experimented with a different form of supervision. This is why we are getting back, probably just like colleagues who go to work, to be enthusiastic about how this distinction is made. What should we really do and what could we make choices to improve education? This stimulates education and also helps education to make a quality impact. That education often appreciates the comments of the inspection in this sense, is demonstrated by a poll by the PO Council and the Association of School Leaders to which Mr Verhoeven rightly referred. Without this clarity, however, the inspection is often perceived as bothersome and meddling. I now come to the third sub-topic, the monitoring. Mrs Siderius has asked about the supervision of teachers' competence. That is what I have just discussed in the course of an interruption. This is a crucial requirement for education. As indicated, these rules remain in place and the initiators also believe that more priority should be given to them. Mrs Siderius also asked about the rules for parental contributions. With this proposal, schools remain bound by the principle that access to education should not be made dependent on a financial contribution. The school guide should explicitly state that the financial contribution is voluntary. This proposal for an initiative does not make any changes to this section. The same applies to appropriate education. The monitoring of this remains fully in place. In the meantime, it appears that school leaders sometimes have misconceptions about the rules. It is therefore important that they are promptly informed of the school's duty of care and that this duty of care is also put into practice. It is therefore also important that this duty of care should be part of the monitoring of the inspection, as part of the robustness requirements.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u37	My question is perhaps abundant. Mrs Siderius has indeed asked what is happening now in matters such as the voluntary parental contribution and the sponsorship of schools, which I do not think are directly affected by the primary process. Can you reassure me by saying that these are matters on which the inspection can still monitor with your legislative proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u38	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u39	I know that the Chamber has sometimes asked if the inspection can ask for it separately. So the inspection can ask as a kind of appendix, as an addition to the visit or contact with the school, whether the rules on parental contribution or sponsoring of schools are being complied with?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u40	I would say that the inspection does not even have to ask that question, which can already check behind the office at the inspection office whether the school guide explicitly states whether the parental contribution is voluntary, and whether it is not a little understated. That can be monitored by the inspection. That does not change this initiative proposal, nor does it change it with regard to sponsorship. The proposal does not intervene in other areas. Mrs Jadnansing asked about the monitoring of citizenship education. Another example has just been mentioned, namely sexual diversity. The legal frameworks laid down at the time remain unaffected by this proposal. That applies to both aspects. Schools need to work on active citizenship and social inclusion. Students should learn about different backgrounds and cultures. The legislator has deliberately given schools a great deal of freedom to shape their own work. The inspection therefore opts for a cautious attitude, but it does not have to go so far as not to ask a question: explain, let's see, how did you embed citizenship formation in your educational curriculum? That question can be asked in full. The inspection may point the finger at a failure, for example the lack of citizenship in a number of years, but if there is a continuous line that meets the requirements of the law, the inspection cannot say: this is not doing you any good.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u41	Thank you for the clear answer. Yesterday morning there was a round table with, among other things, people from citizenship education. They indicated that it is actually not doing so well with citizenship education and its legal compliance. Do you see your initiative proposal as an opportunity to ensure that something more is going to happen? Again, people were worried about that. Maybe you can help them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u42	On the basis of this bill, the inspection has the full right to ask a school board or director about the citizenship curriculum. Will the statutory elements be dealt with in the right way and at the right time? Is there a continuous line in there? I am afraid that here too the question has been asked too little, while there was plenty of room for it. And that space will continue to exist.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u43	Yesterday we received the request for more monitoring. That would simply be insufficient. You're saying space is here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u44	Compliance with citizenship and social inclusion is a necessity; it simply exists. What should the inspection do under this initiative proposal? During the visit to the school, the inspection is on its working list: establishment of citizenship formation. And then the inspection finds that it meets or does not meet the minimum requirements laid down by the law. So the inspection really has the room to do that. But then we should not focus on all kinds of other things. Let the inspection focus in its supervision and focus on those robustness requirements. Then education supervision will make a huge blow. It puts the inspection in a different position, in a much more supportive, stimulating role. And as an inspector, it only makes you happy, doesn't it? At least that's what I'd like to advise them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u45	Please continue with your response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u46	With regard to two of the adequacy requirements, however, the legislative proposal provides for a substantive clarification or supplement with consequences for supervision. I pointed out that we have kept it to the minimum, but we had to make a point in two parts. Firstly, the position of the school plan and quality care. The initiators consider it important that education is supported by a sound vision. The school plan has a central place in it. In her research, the inspection is based on the school's own vision in the school plan. The next block will address this in detail. The second point on which an adjustment has been made concerns the need for the development of pupils and the organisation of the supply of education. In primary and special education, the competent authority has a duty to take account of the development of pupils and to ensure that education is linked to them. The initiators have found that this basic standard is lacking in secondary education. It is not clear why this standard would not apply in secondary education if account is taken of the nature of the different sectors. The Law on Secondary Education is supplemented on this point. Those are the only two interventions that seemed necessary to us as regards the need for correctness. Mrs Jadnansing asked whether it was true that making a continuous development process possible is an effort and not an obligation to achieve results. The answer to that is affirmative. It's an effort obligation. The law states that education must be organised in such a way as to enable pupils to undergo a continuous development process. The competent authority is not responsible for ensuring that pupils actually go through a continuous development process, because in certain cases this obligation of results would demand the impossible, given the developments that children may go through and disturbances that may take place, so that the competent authority is unable to achieve this. But everything must have been prepared to give a student the chance, in normal circumstances, to do the same. Where things are not going well, care and support must be organised so that it can hopefully support the student sufficiently to enable him to go through a continuous development process. Mr Dijkgraaf asked the fundamental question what the inspection should be if the soundness requirements themselves are unclear. This is an essential point for the initiators. They conclude that the supervisory frameworks have been developed too much independently of the robustness requirements. The initiators consider that very undesirable. Supervision focuses on the legal requirements. Without clarity about the content of the legal provisions, supervision becomes impossible. The proposal is designed to promote clarity, and we should not restrict the freedom of professionals beyond what is necessary. The inspection may apply rules which may reasonably still be used as an explanation of the law. Where the reasonable explanation ends, supervision of the inspection also ends. For example, as the Education Council has indicated, it is doubtful to formulate a concrete obligation on the basis of a vague standard. In situations where, according to the inspection, the law is insufficient, it may advise the Minister to make a change so that it becomes part of the supervision. As far as we are concerned, that is the royal route which we would like to advocate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u47	Mr Bishop says: can she ask the Minister to better formulate the requirements? I'll just put it in plain human language. I would say: must she ask the Minister to make these demands clear. If it's a can-determine, they can do it themselves. In my interpretation, the inspection applies rules when those rules can be interpreted clearly. If the rules are unclear and you do not come out in good consultation, then the inspection will have to ask the Minister: what am I supposed to do now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u48	The point is, I believe, exactly in the penultimate phrase: if they do not come out in good consultation. If that's the case, fine, why leave it? Then such a provision offers that space and you have found a form by which the school can think and work from its point of view, and the inspection ensures that it is an adequate translation. Okay, then you don't have to make it mandatory to tighten up such a provision. That's the background to this can-determine.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u49	That's clear. That does not mean that it 'can', as Mr Bishop put it, amounts to: well, the inspection only sees if she asks the Minister what to do. No, it's fine if they come out by mutual agreement, but otherwise the route will go to the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u50	Yeah, that's the right interpretation. This brings me to the end of my share of the contribution. Thank you very much for your kind guidance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u51	Mr Van Dijk would like to ask you another question, Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u52	Oh.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u53	Is Mr Bishop taking care of the chapter on differentiated supervision, or will one of his colleagues do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u54	One of my colleagues will do that. Mr Van Dijk, this is a very important point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u55	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u56	Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by thanking my colleagues for allowing us to stand here with this initiative legislative proposal. Some in the country found it rather odd that parties such as D66 and the SGP have come together to come up with an initiative legislative proposal. I can reassure everyone, including on the SGP side, because there are enough differences between our parties. From the experience of Mr Bishop, myself and Mr Rog in education, we have come to this proposal. I also thank and once again the support, so the praiseless Gijsbert Leertuwer, Daniëlle Koster and Huub Linthorst. The latter has chosen not to spend this afternoon of his life in trade-k, but thanks to him there is no less for it. He hadn't been mentioned yet. Of course, I would also like to thank all the speakers for their input into the first term of this debate. It is up to me to answer their questions about the horizontal accountability and the stimulating role of the inspection. At school, young people are often advised to do what they are good at. So if you're good at languages, it's not obvious to choose an exact profile, and vice versa. That lesson also applies to supervisors. Monitoring the soundness of education is the key competence of the education supervisor. The initiators believe that the inspection should concentrate on this as much as possible. The supervision rests exclusively with the government. Parents or participation cannot take over the supervision, i.e. the assessment and judgment, from the inspection. The inspection may, however, leave the promotion of education largely to parents and co-determination. Former Inspector Generals Mertens recently argued in a publication on educational supervision that the inspection should focus on what he calls "the guarantee function." In an order in which there is a need for innovation and development, an inspection outside the supervisory framework should be cautious. Otherwise, the risk of unitary sausage and playing on security risks. The initiators share that analysis. The word "measuring" has been regularly used in the first period. Of course measuring is not a problem, if at least the content of what has been measured is as ready as a cube. The possibility to cancel the table of five or to apply capital letters does not give rise to any discussion. You can measure that. But what do we do with things that are difficult to measure? Shouldn't that be a reason for the inspection to exercise restraint? The initiators cite the so-called "social competences" as an example. The monitoring framework of the inspection states that schools should have a specific offer to develop social competences and that these competences should be at a level that can be expected. Yeah, this isn't exactly "clear," to put it mildly. Schools often take this standard indicator as an incentive to work with score lists and assessment methods. At the same time, the inspection in its support writes quite honestly that it is quite difficult to measure social competences reliably. How is this rhyme? In such a case, the initiators find a normative text in the supervisory framework undesirable, especially when we consider that there is no legal obligation at all to have an offer for social competences, nor to achieve a minimum level. In the first part of the reply, by Mr Bishop, he had already spoken with Mr Beertema about the kindergarten test. He is an example of this. It was and it is not the initiators' question of whether or not a kindergarten test should be carried out. That is not a point of discussion, it is a question of whether such a test should have a legal basis. Otherwise, he should not be there in the context of monitoring and assessment. That's one of the cores of our bill. The initiators would like to use a trend break. The inspection doesn't know everything and the inspection shouldn't want to know everything. After all, what is beyond doubt is that measuring also leads to red tape and hassle. Ask the people who know, the teachers, for example. They do feel the burden, but often they don't feel the profit. That should prevent the inspection as much as possible. If the legislator has not set checkable standards, the inspection should allow for insights and preferences of other stakeholders, e.g. parents. Especially when it comes to social issues, they know more than anyone what is important to their child. For example, many parents value a home visit more than a score table for social skills. In such a case, the government should not hinder these schools and parents with expensive words that have little to do with them. This subject directly affects the questions put by Mrs Siderius and Mrs Jadnansing on learning outcomes. Mrs Siderius asked whether a strengthening of the social dimension in learning outcomes would be possible and Mrs Jadnansing asked whether it was not obvious to draw up a standard of added value. For the initiators, it is important to avoid the unilateral use of learning outcomes. It is not desirable to assess a school solely on the basis of results for mathematics and language. It is understandable that schools have in recent years sought attention to the wider picture of education quality. The initiators therefore find it strange that primary schools are paid for learning results whose added value is not known. However, we believe that the solution is not to extend tests and learning outcomes, first of all because it is difficult to implement them. As mentioned above, it appears difficult to measure social skills, for example. The same applies to young children. Opinions repeatedly indicate that setting the initial level of preschool children is not possible. Moreover, there is a great risk that we will end up in the ditch with this. The emphasis will then be even stronger on tests and figures, whereas teachers do not see this as the path to quality. The cure is worse than the ailment. Mr Voordewind and Mrs Siderius asked about the difference between the current quality aspects and the new role of the school plan. Mr Voordewind asked whether the school plan would lead to a definition of quality. The quality aspects come back through the back door of the school plan, Mrs Siderius asked. The initiators would first of all like to point out that the school plan is not a new phenomenon. It is an obligation that has existed since 1998. Schools should express their views on educational policy, personnel policy and quality improvement policies in the school plan. The law lists several elements on which the school should give its vision. Every four years, a review of the school plan takes place. With this proposal, the content of the school plan remains largely the same. Where necessary, parts shall be updated and adapted to recent legislative changes. What does change with this proposal is the role of the school plan. Indeed, many school leaders are currently indicating that the school plan leads to a dormant existence. It's languishing in the desk drawer. In particular, an inspection visit shall check whether there is a school plan and whether the mandatory components have been described. That's what the initiators think is a missed opportunity. On the contrary, the school plan provides an excellent starting point for examining the inspection. The school's vision of education is then put at the centre rather than a mould that is laid on all schools. In response to Mr Voordewind, there is indeed a vision of quality, but a vision that the school itself has chosen. The school plan is the area where the school can choose its own course. What does the school think is important for education, what profile does this school have? If the inspection is in line with this, differentiation and tailor-made work will arise in the research. The starting point for the investigation is therefore moved from the inspection to the school. The starting point is no longer the quality aspects developed by the inspection in indicators; the inspection starts with the story told by the school. The school is first and foremost accessible on its own story and not on external lists that have little support within the school. The research does ask the question: does the school's vision believable or does the practice run counter to the paper? However, this does not bring the quality aspects back in through the back door of the school plan. In fact, the substantive guidance followed by the inspection was drawn up by the school itself. Moreover, this proposal is without prejudice to the fact that the inspection carried out on the basis of the school plan also examines whether the school complies with its obligations. As Mr Dijkgraaf said, the proposal is indeed intended to promote a clear and sharp debate on the quality of education. There is not only accountability to the inspection. The school must also be accountable to other stakeholders. Parents and participation play an important role, for example, and in secondary education, of course, pupils also play an important role.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u57	I would like to ask one more question about the way the school plan works. Mr Van Meenen says that the inspection can look at how the various parts of the school plan have been worked out and how the school's vision has been worked out. But it is especially important that practice in the school really shows that things are not only written down in the school plan, but that they are also experienced. How does Mr Van Meenen view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u58	Exactly. I fully agree with Mrs Straus. This is also meant by "the effect." It is then about the impact in the school's practice. That is also what the inspection establishes. She looks at whether there is a discrepancy between the paper and reality. If that is the case, the inspection can point this out to the school and tell them how to do it better. It can give advice on how to improve it. It is therefore completely transparent that these observations have been made, but I will come back to that point later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u59	This is a valid requirement of the school plan. Can the inspection simply point out to the school that reality is not in line with what is on paper or can it continue?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u60	This depends on the part of the school plan to which it relates, because the school plan also describes how the adequacy requirements are met. Mrs Straus herself has just said that these are quite a list. In my view, they are still quite topical, but well, that discussion has just been held and it is always good to keep looking at it. In that part of the school plan, however, really lies the judging character. This is under the supervision of the inspection and is not the subject of a non-committal or stimulating conversation. The role of the inspection is then really judging. She's just judgmental about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u61	How exactly is the inspection going to do that? Mr Van Meenen rightly says, in my view, that it should not be about the school plan, about that paper, but about the reality at school. But how should the inspection discover that now the number of visits to the inspection, to my great disappointment, has declined enormously?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u62	We call for differentiated surveillance. I'll get back to you on that. This means that depending on the findings, there can be more or less visitors. If the inspection is visiting somewhere, it can, of course, decide for itself how deep a look is. It can also do so on the basis of the concerns it may identify. Mr Van Dijk can safely assume that the inspection, if she is concerned about something, will certainly look deep into the school. We saw an example of that yesterday. At Aloysius College, the inspection didn't go ice in one night. So I can reassure Mr Van Dijk: it is true that there will be a thorough examination if there are any suspicions that the reality is not in line with the paper. This is done, for example, through class visits, conversations with teachers and students, etc.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u63	But I believe that the situation will then be based on the fact that there are already concerns or that a problem has already been identified. Do the proposers agree that the inspection should visit schools at all? I believe that it happens once every four years and that it becomes once every six years. I don't think that's much. Do they agree? Did the proposers make a ruling on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u64	As far as I know, there is no standard and it is not an amendment that we are proposing. However, we are in favour of proportional monitoring. In the opinion of the inspection, intensive monitoring shall be carried out, whether more or less intensive. Of course, there has to be a frequency with which that is certain to happen. Mr Voordewind asked how the inspection could best contribute to this horizontal accountability. He specifically mentioned how teachers can learn about the work of the inspection. With the legislative proposal we want to promote horizontal accountability by clarifying the tasks of the inspection. Accountability can only come out well when it is clear to parents, pupils and participation how far the freedom and responsibility of the school extends. If the limits of supervision and the stimulating role of the inspection are clearer, the school can be more closely questioned on its course and ambition. This information is available to everyone. After all, both the monitoring report and the incentive report are made public with this legislative proposal. Fortunately, Mrs Keijzer was very pleased with this and I hope Mrs Van Toorenburg will be happy with it. She said that this information is an important means of supporting horizontal accountability. It may not happen often yet, but the initiators point to the possibility that teachers, for example, can take independent knowledge of these reports. After an investigation they can get the vision of the school inspection with a few mouse clicks on the screen. Mrs Straus would also like the school to describe in the school plan how pupils have an input in assessing the functioning of teachers. The initiators agree with her that pupils in secondary education can provide useful information on the functioning of their teachers. The key question is whether this should be imposed as an obligation on all schools. The initiators do not see the need for this. Why should a school which without this method delivers excellent quality be obliged to do so? Moreover, this need can also be addressed through participation. Then more justice will be given to the specific situation of the school. However, the inspection may focus on this component in its stimulating task.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u65	In the meantime, together with the Labour Party, we have tabled an amendment on this point. In that we do not prescribe at all how it should be done, only that it should be done. A school can choose how it wants to give students a place in providing feedback on how things are going at school. Education is primarily intended for pupils.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u66	We are also in agreement with that amendment in itself. We just think it's a little less part of this legal process. We propose to the VVD to include this in the teacher register, because it is more appropriate there in the context of the teacher's competence profile and the way in which judgements are made.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u67	I don't think it fits the teacher's register at all. The register is about the profession itself and how they work together to ensure that there is continuous improvement in professionalism. This is about the fact that the competent authority - we are talking about this today - gives the pupils a place in his personnel policy. No more and no less. The students enjoy the education. After all, that's what we all do. Why should we not ask them how they experience education?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u68	On the content we agree with the proposers. We will not have a comprehensive discussion here as to whether this is the right place. The amendment has been tabled and we agree with its content. We would have preferred it to have been submitted at another time, but we can live with it. In any event, the initiators do not wish to take advantage of this proposal to supplement its requirements in a variety of respects. This could damage the confidence of the educational field. Moreover, it does not benefit care. We also believe that the validity requirements still have a fairly current value. In addition, there is insufficient understanding of current practice. It is customary to first give the advisory bodies an opportunity to shed light on current practice and the proposed solution. Especially on this subject, it is obvious to ask the Education Council for advice on this matter. The initiators are considering whether this point is content...Sorry, this is about something else. For example, teaching visits can be useful in carrying out the stimulating task and supporting horizontal accountability. Mrs Jadnansing asked what the inspection should do with lesson observations. I just said something about it after a brief interruption. As a result, the inspection can get an impression of the way the school is working on its vision. For example, if an inspector finds that iPad school is hardly used during the lesson, he will not only frown his eyebrows, but can also include this finding in the stimulating part of the report: it might be a good idea to use an iPad at an iPad school. These are clear deviations from the school plan and not their own models of inspection as to how a lesson should be constructed. For everyone it is known that there is a gap between the school plan and the school room. Parents and teachers therefore have a clear lead to take action. In addition, the inspection may also provide suggestions or examples that can help the school further. The knowledge and experience of the inspection then circulate in education.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u69	This is a nice example to go into. iPad schools are at least subject to discussion. A recent study has shown that ICT may not work as well when it comes to educational quality. I would ask Mr Van Meenen to respond to that. Suppose the school has in the school plan that a lot of iPads have to be used by the students. The inspection at that school then notes that little iPads are used. Does the school get a slap on the wrist when he might be doing a very good job in practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u70	No, the school doesn't get a slap on the wrist as long as it's not included in the validity requirements that iPads should be used in a school. I don't see that happening so soon. If that has already happened, it will have had to pass through Parliament. The point of our legislative proposal is that we have a number of requirements. If a school meets those requirements, that's a really big deal, you can be there as a school. Outside there is a world of things that can be discussed with the school in the context of stimulation. There may be the discrepancy between what is described and the reality, at least in this case. Then it is a question of the public pointing this out, also outwardly, to the parents and the students: this is the school's plan, but this is what he is actually doing. There is no doubt that something will happen to that. The school will either revise its vision on that or choose to make that vision more true. It will not be so much the government that appeals to the school, because it can only do so on that part that is judged, i.e. on the supervisory part. It will undoubtedly be the others in that area of the school who have to deal directly with that which may give a slap on the wrist. The initiators do not consider this to be the role of the government. I'm going to go through the equation. The Audit Service of Waren in the Netherlands determines whether or not oil bulbs can be sold, or whether they meet the requirements we impose on food in the Netherlands. However, the government will never perform the AD Oil Ball test itself. There's the difference between supervision and stimulation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u71	I understand. In this way, that would also work out well. Does Mr Van Meenen agree with me that we should be careful that the school plan is declared too sacred if there are things in it that may conflict with good education? That should not only be the case in theory. Does Mr Van Meenen share that opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u72	I share that, but if that were the case, that school plan would also be directly contrary to the merits. Mr Van Dijk can rest assured of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u73	But you gave the example yourself...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u74	Mr Van Dijk, we are doing two-way interruptions and through the chairman. You've already asked two questions. Do you have an urgent question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u75	You're absolutely right, Mr. Chairman. I wanted to say that Mr Van Meenen himself gave an example of iPads in the school plan, when I pointed out that they are controversial in the current education debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u76	Yes, but if that conclusion is drawn...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u77	Mr Van Meenen, you are also aware that interruptions go through the President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u78	My apologies, Mr. Chairman. In my enthusiasm to answer Mr Van Dijk correctly, I forgot to mention you. How could I do that? If the Chamber, or if the Minister and the Secretary of State come to the conclusion that it is indeed very bad for students to use iPads, we should somehow make laws and regulations about it. Only then can that play a role in a judging sentence. Today's practice is too limited. That is precisely one of the reasons for this initiative. I have just mentioned the kindergarten test as an example of a part of inspection supervision where the legal basis is unclear, especially for schools. That clarity must always be there. If something becomes necessary or if something should not happen in schools, it must first have made the hallway through this Chamber. We'll see if that happens to iPads. In the sphere of supervision, however, teaching visits play a limited role. The task of the inspection is not to supervise pedagogics or didactics. For example, the inspector cannot note that the school is inadequate because the students work too much independently. Supervision is only dealt with when the organisation of education is so flawed that there can be no proper learning process. The school then no longer has control and the students are left to their own devices. These are, moreover, all aspects which are not compatible with the fulfilment of the requirement of correctness. It is therefore actually a question of situations where a school can no longer reasonably claim that a didactic choice is still at hand. However, there is no question of supervision outside such situations. Exactly how far does the stimulating task of inspection go? That question was raised by Mr Voordewind. Can the inspection also issue labels as "good" or "excellent"? Or is that undesirable? The initiators have always indicated that they are in favour of differentiated monitoring. That is just what we were talking about: the intensity of inspection monitoring depends, for example, on the results. However, they are not in favour of differentiated judgements such as "good" and "excellent." It is up to the government to give an opinion on the soundness of education. That's the base. In addition, the oil bulb test just came around the corner. However, it is not up to the government to stick extra stickers in schools that are sound. It is never the role of the government to say: these orbs can be sold, but if you really want to have a nice one, you have to be at the bakery Van Kampen. We do not regard the latter as the role of the government. Mr Voordewind rightly pointed to the problems of differentiated judgements. When the judgment of good or excellent education is given to a school, the suggestion is made that a legal standard is involved. However, that is not the case. There are no legal criteria for these labels, and in the meantime schools can benefit from, or suffer from, government labels. Schools that do not receive these labels, for example, have a competitive disadvantage. That's not the way the initiators want to go. A government that wants to do so will have to be extremely careful. Objective criteria laid down in the law are therefore indispensable. The legislative proposal therefore also creates a legal basis for the judgment "very weak education" with the necessary legal protection. If a school meets the standards, the quality is legally good enough. For the predicate "good" or "excellent" education, the law now has no regulation, nor if this law is passed. Without this regulation, there will be the risk that Mrs Keijzer referred to, namely that schools will become dependent on a standard that is politically prescriptive at some point. There are other risks involved in handing out these kinds of predicates. Suppose a school got the predicate "excellent" but still goes bankrupt. Can the State then be held liable for the damage suffered by creditors who have relied on this predicate and for the damage suffered by competing schools because their competitor has been wrongly classed as excellent? Moreover, with differentiated judgements, the inspection would also have different behaviours vis-à-vis all other government regulators. The government also does not indicate whether housing corporations or health care institutions work well or super good. The government focuses on compliance with the law. For the rest, the freedom of citizens and professionals applies.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u79	A very clear statement by Mr Van Meenen, which I fully agree with. Does it therefore surprise the authors that the government came up with a letter on 11 September in which it expressed rather enthusiastically that this law offers so much scope to deal with precisely those predicates on which we are so critical; so is the SP?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u80	Of course, the government's enthusiasm for this bill did not surprise us. Perhaps that enthusiasm reflects somewhat on what Mr Van Dijk is referring to. But we have to be precise. There is now no legislation on the differentiated judgment. This bill doesn't say anything about that. You can see that as an invitation to do so or not. It is clear where the initiators stand, but we do not say anything about that in the legislative proposal. We are not preventing it, but we are not making it possible. In any case, it is the belief of the initiators that if something like this should happen, it must have a legal basis, just as with the predicate "very weak." That has great legal consequences. We already know that this could also happen with a designation as 'excellent'. It is already the case that excellent schools, according to a jury that drives through the country, are given the space to become rule-free or rule-free. As soon as there are consequences of this predicate, it is all the more important that there is a legal basis. That is what we are now saying. Again, we are not doing anything about that in this bill. We do not give that legal basis, but we clearly state our view that it should be there, if the government continues to have this intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u81	Mr Van Meenen has given a very correct answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u82	You know me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u83	Yeah, that's right. But I see two things. I note that he is coming up with a law that seeks to reduce unnecessary interference from the inspection and I note that the government is coming up with a proposal that we are extremely critical of. Mr Van Meenen has tabled a motion on this subject, which I have wholeheartedly supported. It has also been supported by the other three proposers. No differentiated supervision with those predicates "good" and "excellent." That's not enough for schools. Does Mr Van Meenen recognise that the government's proposal on these predicates is at least contrary to the spirit of this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u84	No, I can't admit that, because the law isn't about that at all. The views of the initiators on differentiated supervision are well known. We have said something about it, especially to stress that, if it is to be done, predicates must have a legal basis. The views of us and the cabinet are well known. We'll see how that goes. You can say in this respect: the glass is half full, because there is still plenty of room to do it. That could be the government's reasoning. We might say it's half empty. We're looking at the same glass, which is a bill that doesn't say anything about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u85	This legislative proposal provides that schools that meet the requirements of adequacy have the basis in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u86	Mr President, if you will allow me to respond to this, yes, that is perfectly correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u87	I hadn't given you the floor yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u88	I'm gonna have to get used to the job "K."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u89	Yeah, I can tell. Vak-K is different anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u90	Yeah, it's different. Much more procedural. Maybe we should do something with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u91	You are on the Working Method Committee, Mr Van Meenen. Mrs. Straus, please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u92	The fun thing about the Dutch educational country is that there is a lot of diversity. I'm sure the fellow applicants go to work in the country very often, just like I do. I can see that there is a very big difference between schools. There is especially a difference when working together on a little better education every day. If we could now call that momentum a valid criterion, couldn't that be a reason to call a school "good"?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u93	In an earlier part of this debate, it has already been said that if you are going to make legal demands, you must also ensure that you are able to determine very well whether or not they are being met. A renewed momentum, a willingness to cooperate and so on already have something in itself that I think is quite difficult to establish. It is precisely by clearly defining when a school may be there that the initiators have tried to create all the space for the schools and the inspection to release that energy, the stimulating and energetic that Mrs Straus points out. That is one of the essence of this bill. If we want and can regulate innovation and cooperation legally, then we certainly must not fail to do so. However, the question of whether the requirements should be met seems to me to be an exciting one for the time being.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u94	I have a different attitude to this from Mr Van Meenen. I think it is possible to do so. After all, this is a method of working. Just as you can see how a class is taught, you can also see how one works together to make the school a little better each time. These are just methods that one agrees with one another, which an inspector can look at and judge on. Would it not be very nice, even as an appreciation for the schools which make a difference, if we take that into account in the assessment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u95	Mrs. Straus likes that. The premise of the initiators is that this must have a very clear, well-defined legal basis. If the Chambers choose by majority, so be it. If you are going to do something of this kind in a judgmental sense, Mrs Straus means that I believe that "the risk, according to the initiators, is that at the moment there is no good basis for that. That is why we have stayed away from it. In my speech I referred to the risks involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u96	I have heard Mr Van Meenen speak quite madly about the General Daily Oil Orb List. I understand from that that the initiators would never want such a thing to happen for schools. But this is a long time ago: the educational sociologist Jaap Dronkers has developed comprehensive measuring instruments, which are extremely popular with parents. I understand the initiators want to get rid of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u97	Both the list of Mr Dronkers and the test of the oil bulbs are not public activities. The Algemeen Dagblad Oliebollentest I read with great interest; I find it extremely interesting for the question of which oil ball to buy. But I would find it extraordinary if that list came from the government, so if the government were to tell me where the best oil ball is for sale. This is the specific area where some people want to go with the monitoring of education. While such a thing does not happen at any other level in public supervision, one simply determines what the basic quality is, so to put it in our words, whether a school should be there. So we do not think this is a task for the government, but anyone else in this country can make the lists he wants. We are not in favour of it or against it; we have no judgment on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u98	I'm kind of chewing on the answers to what this means. I hear Mr Van Meenen say on the one hand that this does not provide a basis for judgment as 'good' or 'excellent', but it can also apply to other things. On the other hand, he says it doesn't interfere with this either. In my opinion, the interpretation of this bill determines what you can and cannot use in such cases. I think that this interpretation is primarily up to the cabinet: that determines the specific case in which it wants a legal basis or not. Does Mr Van Meenen share this? I think it would then be up to the Chamber to agree to that interpretation of the cabinet or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u99	Exactly. If such predicates, should they come, must be provided with a legal basis, they must make the whole course through this parliament. I didn't say that for nothing. For example, they should not become part of a supervisory framework or a jury story or something. As soon as the government, in this case the cabinet, intends to give differentiated judgments, then this can be done, but not after this has been made law through the usual course. But maybe I misunderstood the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u100	I'd like to go a little wider. We will, of course, have all kinds of discussions in the future on what a separate legal basis needs and what it doesn't; apart from the specific example of the predicates that are attached to it. In that case, is it initially up to the cabinet to assess whether something, given the law in force, needs a legal basis...?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u101	I think that the Chamber is quite capable of making a judgment on this too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u102	Of course, after this has been submitted to the Chamber. I would ask you to speak through the President as much as possible, otherwise you will talk through each other and no one will understand it anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u103	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u104	President-in-Office of the Council. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office for his reply. I therefore believe that, in such a case, it is primarily up to the cabinet to assess whether something in a particular case needs a separate legal basis. Then, of course, it is up to the Chamber to decide on this and whether or not to tell the cabinet that it agrees.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u105	I do not think I can object to that. In addition to the inspection reports, the school guide has an important place in the responsibility towards parents. For example, the school guide should describe learning outcomes and parental contribution policies. Mr Verhoeven asked what was changing the school guide. This proposal adds one element to the mandatory elements of the school guide, namely one relating to quality management. Both the conclusions drawn by the school on the basis of the quality system and any follow-up actions should be actively communicated to parents. Think, for example, of the situation in which problems have been identified with a teaching method and the school decides to switch to another method. By the way, schools often already provide information on their own initiative. In order to avoid red tape, it is not necessary for the school to also describe the quality management system in the school guide. So it is only about the results of the system, and that can be short and powerful. I conclude this block by pointing out a pitfall. More emphasis on horizontal accountability does not mean more paper. That is first and foremost a call to the schools. For example, there is no need to strengthen the school guide and the school plan as a result of the proposal. Not the amount of pages but the quality of the information is leading. Documents must be as long as necessary and as short as possible. It would be nice if the inspection could also play a stimulating role in this. She can put her finger on it when unnecessary red tape and bureaucracy arise in the school. Then perhaps more schools can become slow than just the group that is admitted to the experiment. In any case, the initiators of the inspection expect that it will not come up with models for drawing up the school plan. The law is clear enough about the structure of the school plan. Educational policy, personnel policy and quality management are listed as the elements to be described. The inspection may assess whether all the elements are present, but the impact is on the schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u106	Thank you very much, Mr Van Meenen. I now give the floor to Mr Rog.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u107	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the speakers very much for their input and our support. I'm honored to be standing here. In my past as a teacher of social studies in secondary education and as chairman of CNV Education, I have had regular discussions between teachers and in our team about the role of the inspection. However, I was most affected by my experience with the inspection as a Member of Parliament when I was allowed to walk with you for a day. I saw then the struggle of the inspector himself, who was caught in the soundness requirements that had to be assessed, while quality aspects were also expected. I also saw the struggle of the school, which wanted to meet all kinds of things but wondered if that was always wise. I will talk in my contribution about the own strength of education. I intended to start with Mr Beertema's question on the weight of this bill, but it has already been discussed in an interrupting debate with Mr Bishop. I promise, however, that I will quote Mr Beertema again a number of times. This proposal is actually a tool for schools to really do their job well. Parents and the government can expect schools to perform their tasks independently and visionally. That's an important thought behind this bill. Schools should be able to assume independent responsibility for the quality of education. The legislator has introduced different framework conditions for this. Mrs Straus asked whether there was any consideration of quality improvement in the quality requirements. She spoke of a well thought-out and widely supported system. The initiators can answer her question in the affirmative. In today's laws, attention is paid to improving quality. Various provisions also have to do with an improvement culture. The competent authority of the school shall ensure the quality of education. The school plan should describe the policy of monitoring and improving education, but the culture of improvement is also promoted by drawing up and evaluating a development perspective and using an apprenticeship follow-up system. Moreover, in its letter, the Cabinet acknowledged that this proposal contributes to the quality and culture of improvement in education. The initiators consider it very important that education should be in line with the development of pupils and that the school should continuously adapt its education accordingly. It is not intended that a well-thought-out system of improvement should be left in the form of paper. If problems are identified, solutions need to be worked on. The proposal confirms that the quality management system must not only exist on paper, but must also be implemented. In assessing the quality management system, it is not a question of whether the inspection supports the measures in substance but of whether the school has a view on the quality and, if necessary, whether measures are taken. Schools that do identify problems, but do not work towards a solution, are failing. Mrs Keijzer said that the inspection should not sit on the school board seat. The initiators fully agree with her. This includes the call to the administrations not to make the driver's seat voluntarily available to the inspection. The initiators would welcome it if educational leaders, school leaders and teachers would stand firmer on their own feet. Unfortunately, it is still too common for schools to actually like leaning on the list in the supervisory framework or making themselves dependent on the advice and support of other organisations. That is a signal that the school lacks a strong vision of education and actually lacks enough in itself. Mr Voordewind rightly stressed the importance of the school discussion on good education. This covers not only legal standards, but also, above all, its own standards. Ideally, schools are aware of the wishes and expectations of the environment, but it is they who choose the goals they want to achieve. All efforts are aimed at achieving that vision. There is vision-driven education. It is intended that the story in the school plan is an impact of practice in the school and not a theory that is separate from reality. The school plan is a living document, as colleagues have said. Several spokesmen expressed their concerns as to whether schools could assume full responsibility for quality when quality aspects have disappeared. Schools could seek support elsewhere, but that is of course not the intention. The initiators consider it important to strengthen the own strength of schools. This strength needs to be strengthened in several respects. The questions of the spokesmen make that clear. For example, Mrs Jadnansing asked how we could prevent publishers from getting even more footholds and making the phantom rules that sometimes come out of the inspection. The initiators see only one remedy for this, namely good teacher training. We don't need thicker books, but thicker teachers, as Frits van Oostrom put it aptly. Professional teachers do not feel the need to lean on material that has been written by others and is presented to them, but develop it themselves. It is therefore important that schools provide much more time and money for teachers to develop their own teaching tools and teaching methods. The teacher register could also provide space for such activities, the initiators suggest. Mr Beertema pointed to problems that could arise within the school. In particular, he mentioned drivers who cause phantom laws. These directors then point to obligations that would come from the government, but which they actually made themselves. How do we do that? The initiators recognize that this point is sometimes also raised in the school. It is unfortunate that drivers are in the way of teachers and that, in the event of complaints, they are playing the blind eye. The proposal provides a basis for tackling such situations precisely by providing more clarity on the legal requirements that the school must comply with and on the findings that the inspection takes note of. Drivers can therefore not easily hide behind so-called nasty demands of the inspection. It is less difficult for teachers, parents or co-determination to check whether directors are right to rely on obligations or whether the school has more room to pursue its own course. Ms Straus asked what the school leader's role is in the new system. Is it well-equipped? It is clear that in monitoring and improving the quality of education, the school leader has a lot to offer. He's the captain on the ship, the educational leader of the team. His role is not changed by this bill, but his responsibility is double underlined. As indicated, he or she as that educational leader will have to present that story together with the team, when the inspection comes to visit, but also before and also laid down in the school plan. It will be less easy for the school leader to lean on a checkout list from the inspection. Fortunately, the training of school leaders has developed considerably in recent years. Funds have been released and there has also been evidence of more attention being paid to them. It is necessary to take further and more substantial steps in the coming years. It would be good if the legal framework were also taken into account in this training. In any case, the proposal gives school leaders a hand in this respect. For them too, it becomes clearer where the limits of the law lie and where freedom begins. In this respect, therefore, they are better equipped for their task.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u108	I am pleased that Mr Rog also recognises that school leaders have a very important role to play in this whole. When we talk about the school plan, which will soon become a very important part of the school's vision and thinking about quality, then, of course, the school leader is also the one who makes the difference. He decides whether the school plan is a document in the drawer or whether the school plan actually lives with students, teachers and parents. Can I conclude from this that the initiators are also working to strengthen the position and professionalism of school leaders?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u109	I have tried to indicate that this role is in the spotlight and has become firmer in the past period. I think I can speak on behalf of all the initiators if I say that we will continue to emphasise this role and, where possible, strengthen it in the future. This is not part of this legislative proposal, but Mrs Straus's efforts are strongly supported.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u110	Then I would like to invite you to have a talk about this shortly to see how we can make this role really firmer. I think the school leader really makes the difference between the school plan as a paper document in a drawer and the school plan as a living document. There are certainly a lot of school leaders in the Netherlands who are doing very well, but there are also school leaders who really need help with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u111	This proposal does indeed safeguard the stronger position of the school plan. The educational school leader plays an important if not crucial role in this. For the rest, I would like to respond to Mrs Straus' invitation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u112	I do not want to ask a question, I just want to say that I am unfortunately prevented from continuing the debate from now on. We as a group will, of course, make our judgement in due course when the vote is taken. My place is guarded by Mr. Van Nispen, who is so kind to replace me. I thank the authors very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u113	Thank you very much, Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u114	Mr Dijkgraaf pointed out that the field of education should take an adult position in regular consultations with the inspection. He asked if that was sufficiently guaranteed. The initiators note that the consultations are currently being avoided and that it is unclear where exactly this is taking place. It would be a good idea for everyone to know what input is being provided from different sides, so that organisations can also be consulted. It is a question of how the inspection will proceed in the future. The proposal therefore provides for a report of the consultation to be sent to Parliament. The inspection also makes it clearer to the educational organisations what task is at stake: monitoring or the incentive task. When it comes to organising the consultation, the initiators assume that this will be discussed on an equal basis between educational organisations and the inspection, for example when it comes to the appointment of a chairman. However, it is too far-reaching to regulate this very precisely in this legislative proposal. Finally, it may be necessary for a school to use legal means to defend itself against the inspection. Judgments of the inspection can have serious consequences. For example, when the inspection says that a school is very weak, that means a big blow to the image of the school. The initiators consider that this decision requires better legal protection. The proposal allows schools in this situation to object and appeal. This possibility can also encourage interested parties to take serious action at the stage in which an opinion is presented. This will save costs and time and prevent legal problems. The initiators would like to explain the legal procedures in which schools can go. Currently, schools may object to a planned sanction from the Minister within six weeks, for example when the Minister intends to close a school. The school may also apply for a provisional provision. Where the court assigns such an appeal, the operation of the decision shall be suspended. The proposal does not alter this procedure in the case of sanctions, but extends the possibility of a provisional provision to the publication of the inspection report in which the opinion is "very weak." On the basis of the Education Supervision Act, the inspection report shall be made public in the fifth week following its adoption. In view of the damage that could occur immediately in the event of disclosure, the proposal allows schools to apply for a provisional provision. The court may provide that disclosure shall be omitted until a judgment has been given in the regular proceedings. An important point is that the procedure to prevent disclosure of the judgment "very weak" cannot delay any sanctions. If the Minister wishes to take a "very weak" measure on the basis of the judgment, the provisional provision will focus on both the measure and the disclosure of the opinion. Mrs Siderius asked to what extent the judge could assess the conduct of the inspection. The answer to this question is not unambiguous. As far as the knowledge and expertise of the inspection is concerned, the judge will exercise restraint. The check as to whether the actual assessment by the inspection is correct can only be carried out marginally. After all, the professional autonomy of the inspection must also be respected. This is different when it comes to the interpretation of the law. It is indeed on the court's way to assess whether the explanation given by the inspection to the law is reasonable. A similar role is obvious when it comes to the administrative action of the inspection. The judge may, for example, check whether the inspection has been sufficiently careful. Mr Verhoeven asked whether there would be a transitional period to give schools the opportunity to formulate their own story in the school plan. Not all schools will be equally capable of this. The initiators understand this wish. It is important that the inspection takes account of the development of schools. However, the initiators do not consider it necessary to postpone the entry into force of the proposal. Schools are already obliged to draw up a school plan. After all, it is a necessity. The inspection may take into account its duration when assessing the school plan. A school that still has a valid school plan does not have to adapt it immediately by this bill. However, when the four-year period expires after the entry into force of this proposal, schools may be expected to comply with the new rules. In this way, according to the proposers, a natural transition is actually being made. This bill underlines the responsibility of schools. It is precisely if we choose the professionalism that is present in the schools as a starting point that we can also expect a strong input from schools in their supervision. The downside is, of course, that schools that have their affairs in order should also have confidence. The proposal offers opportunities to reduce red tape and control. In reply to a question from Mrs Straus, the initiators confirm that the inspection may indeed be more cautious as the quality is more in order. When the inspection discovers that a school not only runs on paper, but also in practice as a well-oiled machine, a subsequent visit may therefore be delayed. Mrs Siderius asked if a school visit once every four years would be sufficient. That'll depend on the school. When the inspection has concerns about a school, it can also visit more often. In a good school, that might take six years. The bill aims to provide room for customisation, but this bill also adds something to existing legislation. It obliges the inspection to visit a representative number of schools on each board every four years. That principle has not yet been enshrined in the law. When assessing whether a school has risks to its quality, a risk analysis is carried out annually for all schools. Ms Jadnansing asked whether the list of risk indicators was exhaustive. As far as the initiators can see, that is indeed the case. The bill will update this list. Security policy is added as a result of a recent bill. Due to the central role of the school plan, this is also explicitly included in the risk analysis. This practice is already being used in new schools. At the end of this input, some questions remain of considerable importance, which are beyond the immediate scope of this proposal. We still owe an answer to Mrs Siderius' question as to whether teachers should not be paid better. Of course, the proposers give teachers a good income for their important work. From this subject we also need to mention the recently concluded Action Plan LeerKracht, in which a better remuneration for teachers has been agreed and a better career perspective. Even more recently, teachers have also been given pay space, but wages and working conditions are not enshrined in this law. The proposal does not contain any new rules on this point. Mrs Siderius also asked if there should be more qualified teachers and Mrs Jadnansing asked how the proposal fits in with the plans to set up a teacher register. With this bill, the initiators stress the importance of a strong profession. Unqualified teaching is not an advertisement for the sector. In fact, the requirements of competence are part of the requirements and must therefore simply be respected. This proposal provides an opportunity for the inspection to focus more strongly and to assess schools accordingly. As indicated above, improvement in quality can only be achieved if the team in the school has sufficient luggage and is in a strong position. The plans for a teacher register are in line with that. It is good to see that there is also a lot of involvement of teachers in curriculum development and in initiatives such as Teacher2032. The initiators see it as a profit if the profession itself works on further professionalisation on the basis of its own quality standards. This will increase the confidence of society in education. As the position of the teacher is strengthened, the guardianship can be limited from the political point of view. We therefore hope that the adoption of this proposal will also strengthen the confidence of the field of education in politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u115	Thank you very much, Mr Rog. I would like to thank the authors for their first reply and to give the floor to the Minister for Education, Culture and Science.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u116	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Chamber and in particular the initiators for their commitment to improving the quality of education with this bill. I must say that I am genuinely pleased to see that the parliamentary initiative is not limited to a small, simple subject that may easily be successful, but extends to complex themes. It is a very thorough legislative proposal which is also legally complicated, with which the proposers aim to give an important boost to improving the quality of education in the Netherlands. I can only say that I fully support that. That is why I would like to congratulate the initiators warmly on the work that has been done and, I might add, on the excellent defence that has just been given. It's a good time to see your threes in box K where this subject is concerned. It is also not always the case that three opposition parties submit an initiative law and that we, as representatives of the cabinet, can say that I am also doing so here that we can support the main line of this bill. We share the view that we are talking here about an important principle in education, namely that responsibility for the quality of education should be placed on those directly involved. The ownership of the content and quality of education must be felt and experienced by the teachers in front of the classroom. It must also be felt by the students and by the school board. Together they make the quality of education. This legislative proposal therefore emphasises the central position of the school and administration's own quality care and accountability to those involved in and around the school and to the inspection. This fits in very well with the ambition of the cabinet to promote quality culture in schools: quality policy not as a ticking list, but as a way of thinking I think it was Mr Bisschop who said it and I heard Mr Van Meenen also say it about identity, creativity and ownership. All this within the framework of good and always better education where possible. That should serve it. In short, this initiative proposal is in line with the tailor-made cabinet plans of the Education Inspectorate. In schools that show that they take responsibility for continuous education and education improvement, there is a dialogue between professionals and the inspection to make further improvements where possible. So that should not be a critical approach, but an attitude of critical friend. An important task for monitoring is to support that quality culture. For this, it is important that we recognise the opportunities for improvement. That is why the government wants to map the quality of education across the board, from very weak to excellent. Public reports are an important tool in this regard. In line with the initiators, I recognize the two different tasks of the Education Inspectorate. On the one hand, there is monitoring of compliance. I say: that is strict where it has to be. On the other hand, there is the stimulating role of inspection. It encourages improvement and the taking of responsibility by school boards. It creates space for innovation and innovation. I agree that it is important to clarify in the breakdown of these roles what role the inspection has in which case. This improves the professional relationship between the supervisor and the schools. I would like to mention a few more points. As I said, the cabinet is broadly in agreement with the legislative proposal. I would now like to specify a little more about the cabinet's reading on a number of issues in the legislative proposal. The cabinet also informed the Chamber of this in a letter. We have dealt with the questions put by the Chamber to the Secretary of State and to me. I would also like to make a few comments on this subject in connection with the debate just now. The applicants already mentioned the importance of a new position of the school plan. That is an important element in this bill. It fits very well with the school board's own responsibility for quality of education. For the cabinet, it is also important that the school plan reflects a lively discussion at school and that school boards, school leaders and teachers use their quality management system to improve education. I still experience far too often that schools are actually afraid that they are giving the wrong answer. I hear that a lot from the inspection. If a question is asked by the inspection, schools still think too often about what the inspection would like to hear. Then what they answer is not at all what the inspection wants to hear. The inspection wants to know what the school's vision is. It must therefore be the result of a lively debate and social dialogue at school. Schools should therefore feel called upon to tell the inspection what their plans are, and they should not, above all, say what they think the inspection might want to hear. I think the school plan can contribute to that. Thus, in primary and secondary education, this can contribute to a new provision on the continuous development process, which provides a basis for judgements on the effectiveness of teaching and teaching activities in the classroom. This also applies to secondary schools, which are legally obliged to provide pupils with a continuous development process, appropriate to the pupil. This means that primary education and secondary education have a continuous development process. Maybe it is good to note that this is different for the MBO. The MBO is not covered by the qualitative aspects of the law. Moreover, the government intends to examine whether an ongoing development process can also apply to MBO students. After all, why shouldn't we do it in the MBO? These changes also provide the inspection with a legal basis for making judgements. The bill anchors the judgment "very weak" in the law. That's good. Moreover, I would like to say directly to Mr Van Meenen's remarks in the interrupting debate with Mr Dijkgraaf that there is no need for a legal basis at this stage, not even for other judgments. For judgment "weak," "good" or "excellent," a legal basis is not necessary. The Secretary of State will say a few words about this later. It is true that this bill is not about that. That is how I interpret this bill and also the current practice. I'm going back to the legal base for "very weak." It is now enshrined in the law. A school is very weak if the learning outcomes are insufficient and if the school fails to comply with legal requirements aimed at the learning process. These include competence requirements, the content of education, development prospects and the continuous development process. But even if a school offers poor education but the learning outcomes are not or are not yet to be assessed, this school can become "very weak." This is the case if several legal requirements are not complied with. In the interests of pupils, it is very important to be able to give this assessment in respect of these schools. I would also like to make a comment on the objection and appeal against the'very weak' predicate. The initiative proposal will ensure a close chain of objections and appeals already in the first phase of the enforcement process. Enforcement measures may already be initiated during the objection procedure. There is therefore no delay in the intervention of the inspection. I would like to add that there is some risk of a certain degree of legalization. A number of questions have already been asked about this. The extent to which this occurs is difficult to predict. At the same time, I would like to say that we are already seeing this judicialisation and that the form that the authors of the legislative proposal have chosen is more purer than it is now. Furthermore, this has no suspensory effect of the improvement plan. We attach great importance to this. After all, if a school is very weak, there is no time to lose to achieve improvement. These comments allow us to live with this potential risk of legalisation in the context of appeal and appeal. Once again, this proposal provides for the examination of the inspection of institutions to focus on the school plan and school boards. This explicitly places responsibility for quality assurance with school boards, and that is where they should be. We can live with that. If there is a possible malfunction of the administration, the inspection can investigate the administrative action and, in addition to financial legality, the inspection also involves financial efficiency and financial continuity in supervision. I have no choice but to respond to the amendment on item No. 16 members Straus and Dijkgraaf. Moreover, I have not heard the authors of the amendments, but I assume that the Court attaches great importance to a legal assessment of the amendments. I shall therefore give my opinion on the Amendment No 1 tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 16 on an evaluation after four years of implementation. The government is giving its opinion on this amendment to the Chamber. It seems to me very desirable that every legislative proposal, including this, should be reviewed after some time. The Secretary of State will answer the other questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u117	I thank the Minister and give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u118	Mr. Chairman. There are still a few small, not insignificant things left. Mrs Straus asked for an overview of the adequacy requirements. This relates in particular to po and vo. As the authors of this initiative have already indicated themselves that this is not really about updating but about changing the way in which supervision is carried out, I think it is very sensible that I should just get a look at the merits of the po and vo by the end of the year. That will require some work if we also want a weighting of what is still current. Then we can have a good debate on that part later. In the first term, Mrs Straus asked if we would like to bring to the attention of the reader a brochure of the LAKS with examples of student feedback. I think that's a really good idea. After all, the feedback from students and parents on how things are going at school is incredibly valuable if you want to do something about quality care as a school; getting a little better. So that's what we're gonna do. Mrs Straus has also tabled an amendment on this subject together with Mrs Jadnansing. It calls for this legislative proposal to include the views of pupils on personnel policy when drawing up the school plan, which will soon gain more value and weight. I do not see any legal or substantive objections on this point. As far as I am concerned, the opinion on this can be left to the Court, but of course the initiators can give their own opinion on it. The amendment in part No. 15 by Mr Verhoeven is more complicated. That amendment actually states that the law is now in force, but that schools should not have to adapt their school plan to that. I think that line is very unwise. On the basis of the initiative proposal, school monitoring is carried out on the basis of the school plan. The quality aspects of the Education Supervision Act therefore disappear, but are added as subjects to the school plan. Schools should consider these issues in their school plan, which is not happening across the board at the moment. This means that no quality control is possible if the school plan of a school does not contain additional elements. Then there's a hole. The amendment would be acceptable to us if we added that the old quality aspects would continue to apply to schools that have not yet adapted their school plan to the new elements and conditions of this law. Schools can then decide whether they want to adapt their school plan sooner so that they move on to the new regime, or whether they will keep their old school plan, which does not yet meet the requirements of this law, for a while. However, the inspection should be able to monitor quality in a different title.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u119	The point raised by the Secretary of State is not so much about the scope as about the technical impact of the amendment. However, I am prepared to take a closer look at the amendment in the light of the words of the Secretary of State. I think it's good to do that. I think we should be able to find each other. Therefore, before the vote on this law, we will probably come up with an amended amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u120	There was an interesting debate on the findings of the inspection and the judgments it can give, not only at the bottom with the judgments "weak" and "very weak" but also at the top with the judgments "sufficient," "good" and "excellent." To what extent does that require legal safeguards? We are very excited about this bill, because it fits very well with crucial elements of differentiated supervision. One has to think about promoting a quality culture, highlighting the responsibility and turn of risk-oriented supervision, which only looks at the bottom, at an inspection that talks with all schools on the basis of the school plan about improving quality. So that all fits in well with that. We do not consider it necessary to include an explicit legal basis for the judgments'sufficient', 'good' and 'excellent'. Moreover, this bill does not do that for the "weak" judgment either. This bill only establishes a legal basis for the "very weak" judgment. That also makes sense, because this bill also gives immediate legal effects to the "very weak" judgment, namely the active disclosure of the judgment to parents and the obligation to draw up an improvement plan. It is therefore a good thing that this is regulated by law for those schools that get the "very weak" judgment. The categories "weak', "sufficient', "good' and "excellent' do not need this. That is why the cabinet believes that it can simply continue with the plans it has in this regard. This bill, although it does not explicitly contain anything about it, does not put the cabinet in the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u121	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Before we begin the second term of the Chamber, I shall suspend the sitting until 6:05 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u122	We need the second term of office. I would ask you to be as brief and concise as possible in your second term. I give the floor to Mr Beertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u123	Mr. Chairman. Mr Wiegel once said: Saint Nicholas exists. It is much worse: there is a whole litter of Sinterklazen in trade-K who are going to make education and teachers rich, I understand. I would like to thank Mr K for the detailed answer, but I must say that the PVV Group has not yet reached its conclusion. We see a number of aspects of this initiative. As an example, I would like to mention the proposal to give the inspection by this law a pregnant role in stimulating good practices. The obligation to inspect schools every four years has been taken from the heart. At the same time, we still believe that goodbye to quality standards, and instead to give greater weight to the quality of education, can have a negative impact on the quality of education. Additional attention and weight for these requirements are very welcome. The initiators have convinced us of this, but we would like to introduce this into the existing Education Supervision Act, for example through an AMvB. We think that a new law is too heavy a tool to improve the minor mistakes, because that is what we believe it to be in that law. I have specifically asked for concrete examples. However, these are exactly the wrong examples. The kindergarten test is very sweet to us. A fine school that can't show a range of social competences really gets to the plague case. Such examples have not convinced me that the adage "measuring is knowing" would be obsolete, quite the contrary. Mr Van Meenen and Mr Bishop both mentioned these social competences as an example of how the Education Supervision Act would fail, because the inspection is struggling with them. It is very good that the inspection is struggling with this. It is also good that the inspection realizes that it is difficult to clarify the criteria. That's fine. That is precisely what gives the inspection the opportunity to take on that role of co-thinking critical friend. That movement has already been deployed from the inspection. That's a process, maybe a paradigm change, and it's still got to be done. I think it's too early to say goodbye to all of that now. As far as I am concerned, it is even true that this initiative proposal wants to go back to the old inspector with the check-off list on which are the hard legally secured criteria that a school has or doesn't have. I'd like a reaction to that. We think that is a retrograde step. Now let that path of change take its course. Finally, a question. Why, according to the initiators, should the Minister and the Chambers define the framework for the operation of the inspection? Is there not a great danger that the inspection framework will be politicised? Let me mention a horror scenario. Suppose there is a GroenLinks Minister of OCW with a Secretary of State for Cosmopolitan House, or a PVV Minister with a CDA Secretary of State. It is true, then, that these frameworks may differ politically by government term. I'd like to hear a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u124	I call Mr Van Nispen, who will replace Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u125	I will be brief and concise, especially at your request, but that is mainly because I am replacing my colleague Jasper van Dijk. I'll file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Government intends to introduce differentiated monitoring, with sufficient, sound and excellent introduction of the predicates;]] [[Whereas this will lead to an increase in supervision, where the Bishop and Others Act have been adopted. wants to curb it;]] [[points out that the introduction of differentiated supervision is contrary to the spirit of the Bishop-law c.s.,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Nispen and Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33862-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u126	Madam President. I would like to thank the initiators for their reply, as well as the members of the cabinet. The answer was clear, convincing, passionate. That's good. We have shown that the Chamber does not consist of bureaucrats who are dry-cleaning education, but that there are also people here who are passionate about education. That's what education needs. The beauty is also that this combination shows that sometimes this goes through all kinds of ideological beliefs and you find each other on essential things. Compliments for that. The inspection goes back to the legal duties. When I was a spokesperson in education, we started talking about that. Perhaps that has to do with Mr Leertuwer, who guarantees continuity in the group. It is very nice that this is now taking shape in the initiative legislative proposal. There is an amendment tabled by Mrs Straus and Mrs Jadnansing on the inclusion of pupils' opinions. To be honest, sometimes I am in favour of this. I'm allowed to be a professor at Erasmus University one more day a week. I get an annual assessment from my students, often to my pleasure and sometimes to my sadness. You're learning from that again, but I'm having trouble writing that to foundational education. It may be a nice instrument, but the question is whether you should force it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u127	Thank you, Mr Dijkgraaf, for supporting the substance of the ideas contained in our amendment. But our amendment is precisely designed in such a way that a school itself can choose how it does it. All we have to say is that they must give the pupils' opinions a place. How do you look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u128	That'll help, of course. If the whole board were prescribed as in "you'll conduct a survey," "you'll ask them and those questions" and "you'll judge your staff on that," I'd be against it anyway. But in this case too, we are naturally cautious in the sense that we are wondering whether we should prescribe all these things to the foundational education. I would rather say that you give this information to education, that you say to education that these are the tools that can be used. However, I hesitate to force it to count in any form. We will, of course, continue to discuss this in the group. I have not yet had a discussion with the Education spokesperson on this particular subject. Maybe he has an opinion on that, too. So we will discuss it in the group, but I think it goes in that direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u129	The point is that these students are taught every day. Every day they experience how education is given at that school. Aren't those opinions very valuable to take into account in education and the school itself? How can you ensure that other schools that do not do so naturally and on their own, somehow take the pupils' opinion with them?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u130	Maybe that's where the difference is. I'm assuming that schools will somehow take that and that it's not really necessary to do that unless you say that schools don't take it seriously enough. If you were to say that, you'd have to prescribe it very specifically again. Let it be an appeal to educating the Netherlands to take all opinions seriously, those of parents, students and teachers. But we're not so much about capturing and prescribing these things.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u131	I'm gonna try it again as a co-subscriber anyway. The students are the most important stakeholders if you would like to use that word in education. You should give them much more say in this than they do now. Just give them that, Mr Dijkgraaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u132	Now Mrs Jadnansing speaks of something crucial when she talks about far more participation than they are talking about today. I go to work in schools and I have to say that I do not really know a school where the opinion of students does not count. A school that never even listens to what the students say would actually be a bit of a weird school. That also applies when a group of students gives me a negative response. Sometimes when you're teaching, you notice that something doesn't land. A good teacher does something with that. If you say, "There's a lot more to be done," I'll stick to my answer. You should prescribe that very specifically, but then it becomes dangerous. I see Mrs Jadnansing doesn't want to go that way either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u133	No. In the spirit of what we are proposing in the amendment, I would say that these young people should be allowed to do so. We are actually giving added value to the voice of young people. It's no more and no less than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u134	The call is clear. I think we share it. The key question is whether you should include this in the law. In any case, we disagree on this at the moment. Mrs Straus will shortly be tabling a motion on my behalf. It is a question of assessing and periodically evaluating the current robustness requirements. It seems to me to be a very good thing to record that call here as well. It's all mine to draw a conclusion. I believe that I can give a positive opinion to my group. Given the balance of votes, we'll just have to see how it's going to work out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u135	Mr. Chairman. The blood crawls where it can't go. They were once employed in education themselves. Mr Beertema pointed that out. They moved to the Lower House, where they now make a contribution to the improvement of education from Vak-K. That's good. It tastes like more. The initiators know exactly what they're talking about. This afternoon, I'm just a substitute. That may have disadvantages, but it also has one advantage. This is because I do not have a thorough analysis of the scope of the adequacy requirements. No; I just listened very carefully after reading the most important pieces this afternoon. I noticed something. It's all about schools, school leaders, teachers, directors, children and parents. However, there was no mention of the supervisory boards. Let me just be one of those superintendents at Optimus. That's a school group for 32 primary schools. Internal supervisors shall monitor the quality of the administration and the quality of education through the administration. Fortunately, supervisory councils are no longer voluntary, well-intentioned chat clubs, which interfere a bit. They are critical viewers, who like to spruce, show their teeth where necessary, and sometimes even bite. From this point of view, I have only one question: how can internal supervisors contribute to achieving what is envisaged by this legislative proposal, and that through focus, education monitoring really becomes more effective? How can these different supervisors strengthen each other? That's what I'm curious about. If we have that sharp, it could be a subject of discussion within the association of supervisors in education, the VTOI. Maybe that's a very nice challenge for the initiators. They're gonna be able to go on the farm one more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u136	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the initiators for their detailed answers to all the questions asked. It was very thorough and balanced. It is a very well played threesome. They have managed to shed even more light on the purpose of their law in their response. I have listened very carefully to what they have said about the school plan, the school guide and the horizontal accountability. I agree with them that it's a missed opportunity for a school plan to lead a dormant existence lying in a desk drawer. This is not only because the school plan provides a good starting point for examining the inspection, but also or precisely because it can play a role in horizontal accountability. I have noted with pleasure that it is not necessary to describe the quality system in the school guide, but that it is sufficient to reflect the results of that system briefly and vigorously, so no red tape. In the first term, I drew attention to the new requirements of the school plan. It seems to me that it goes too far to require all schools to have their school plan adjusted at the time this law enters into force. It is more reasonable that they do not have to make these adjustments until they are ready to draw up a new school plan. We have just spoken about this. Mr Rog has said how the authors feel about this. The Secretary of State indicated the explanation of the cabinet. We have already promised to look at this amendment as closely as possible and to adapt it in such a way that the intention we all have is set out in a legally sustainable way. I hope that there will then be sufficient support for that amendment, so that this natural transitional period, in order to quote Mr Rog's words, will also enter into force and the schools will be able to cope with this law. A motion will be tabled by Mrs Straus, as Mr Dijkgraaf announced, on the evaluation of this law. We shall be happy to support them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u137	Mr. Chairman. In the first term, I said that I saw three colleagues sitting in the benches shiningly. They're a little less radiant today than they were the first time. I'd like to see them shine a little more. It's great to see that. It is indeed wonderful if we Members of Parliament take the initiative to make things a little better in this country. I would also like to thank them for answering all the questions I have asked. I tried to find out whether there was one left that they had not yet answered, but that is not the case. They've been well answered. Thank you for that. I have another concern about which I would like to put a question to the Secretary of State, namely citizenship. We had a round table last night. We have been urged to do something with this, as Mr Bishop rightly said. Somehow it doesn't come out of the paint. What's the inspection missing to get these out of the picture anyway? I would like to put that concern here again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u138	Mr. Chairman. In the first term, I started with a heartfelt compliment to the authors of this initiative, and I would like to reiterate this. The quality of our education concerns us all. Children in the Netherlands are entitled to good education and, as far as I am concerned, even more than good education. To provide this good education, schools in the Netherlands have a lot of freedom. We Liberals consider this freedom to be a great asset, but according to the VVD it also brings with it a very great responsibility. Education works with the most precious thing we have in the Netherlands: the talents of our children, which are our future. In recent years there has been a lot of work in education. We're running out of weak schools. Above all, we need to hold on to this, even after this bill enters into force. Our children must never suffer from poor education. That's the basis for your future, so let that base be in order. The debate we had yesterday on the closure of the Aloysius College has shown once again how painful it can be if that basis is not in order. To see whether all this hard work on improving the quality of education has not been lost in recent years and whether it is indeed being further improved, as is the use of this bill, I have tabled an amendment, together with the SGP, to evaluate this law in four years' time. Only the basis on order is not enough in 2015 as far as the VVD is concerned. The future facing a child who is now being born is so different from when I was born that education will have to ask itself the question every day: what do we think is good education? The initiators give the school plan a central role in this and I share that with them. However, it must be a living document that is palpable throughout the school and serves as a basis for parents, teachers and students to face together the challenge of realising this good education. Such a living document only arises if there is an improvement culture at a school. Having the school plan in the closet or in a drawer alone is not enough for us. The initiator actually said so himself. I would like to stress once again that it is a question of real and visible implementation of the school plan. I stress that because today's legal process is finally part of the interpretation of the law. The proposers of the initiative want to return to the legal requirements for assessing schools, i.e. to check whether a school is of sufficient quality only on this basis. This can be done if these legal requirements are fully consistent and up-to-date. In any case, we are wondering. Despite the State Secretary's commitment, we have therefore prepared a motion together with the SGP. Let me read her to you. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the robustness of basic education is not periodically assessed in relation to its relevance to contemporary education;]] [[noting that the adequacy requirements are a guiding factor in the monitoring of education and are therefore of great importance for the effective assurance of the quality of education;]] [[Calls on the Government to review the existing robustness requirements for their current application, consistency and effectiveness in monitoring and to inform the Court of Justice of this before the summer recess;]] [[calls on the Government to periodically review the adequacy requirements for their current application, consistency and effectiveness,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Straus and Mr Dijkgraaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33862-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u139	During the first period, I expressed the wish to add something to one of the prerequisites, namely that of personnel policy. The feedback of students on education should give you a role in the staff policy of the school. We have tabled an amendment to this effect together with the PvdA. In that amendment, we do not speak out how to shape the feedback of pupils in personnel policy. The LAKS has made a very nice brochure about this. The Secretary of State has already referred to that. There are a number of examples showing how this feedback can look in practice. I would like to present this brochure to the Secretary of State and ask him to share this information with the educational field.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u140	I assume there is no objection to this document being made available to the Central Information Point of the Chamber. (For inspection at the Central Information Point of the Second Chamber of the States General.)
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u141	The movement we are making with this initiative proposal is an exciting one. We support the movement to allow education to be much more self-involved, to shape its vision of good education in the school. The school plan becomes the vehicle to do this and it becomes the basis of responsibility for what a school has achieved with this good education. It is now up to the schools to show that their school plan is not just a paper tiger, but a document with content, from which teachers, pupils and parents draw inspiration, which they are warm to and which they like to work with. You could almost say that it's going to be a kind of Bible for the school, for how schools want to shape that good education.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u142	We have come to the end of the second term of the Chamber. The applicants need 10 minutes to prepare their response. I'm suspending the meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u143	Mr. Chairman. We have agreed that I will speak on behalf of this trio. I hope that saves time. Although?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u144	We hope so, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u145	Well, I guess I'll just get started. First of all, I would like to thank all Members very much for their contributions. There is a great deal of involvement, which we all share. That's good. I would also like to thank the Minister and the Secretary of State for their input. It is right to point the finger at the central place, the key position, which occupies the school plan. We note that there is some difference of opinion, of interpretation, between the proposers and the rulers when it comes to the differentiated judgments. Does it require a legal basis or not? That discussion is not settled in this legislative proposal and is not even conducted. However, it is good to name this. We have no difference of opinion on the idea that there should be differentiated supervision. This means that there is a need for customization. Schools should be given the supervision they need in order to improve the quality of education. This depends on the way the schools themselves stand in the process. In our perception, this is clearly something other than differentiated judgments. Then you work with the qualifications "good, better, best" or something similar. I shall end Members' contributions in the second term. Mr Beertema expresses his fear that we are actually going back to the old type of inspector with a ticking list. I don't think that's the case. The central point of this initiative proposal is to assess on the basis of a robust set of requirements. It can have far-reaching consequences if it is not met, especially if it is structural. In addition, the interview that the inspector is having is at least as important, on the basis of choices made by the schools themselves. Those can be very confrontational conversations. They may lead to certain findings, but the inspector doesn't pass judgements. Our conviction is that the conversation the inspector has with those involved in a school becomes the beating heart of the quality of education and its incentive. It has been asked why the Minister should establish the inspection framework. I mean, can't that just change colors when a new cabinet comes up? We, as proposers, are not afraid of this, because this inspection framework is strongly based on the robustness of the requirements. That is the requirement package that is made of schools and which is legally anchored. So that can't be changed overnight if someone has a brilliant raid. We need a legal basis for this. So I hope that I can take that fear away a little bit. The motion tabled by Mr Van Nispen is a little unclear. I was just talking about supervision and judgment. The differentiated judgment has no relation to our own initiative proposal. The applicants have declared themselves opposed to the differentiated judgment, i.e. not to the differentiated supervision. So you cannot say that differentiated supervision is contrary to the spirit of the initiative proposal. I suspect there is some confusion here. My conclusion is that we must discourage the motion as it stands. I thank Mr Dijkgraaf for his words of appreciation. The motion in part No. 19, on the adequacy requirements, I will deal with them when I come to Mrs Straus' contribution. Mrs Van Toorenburg has asked how the position of the supervisory boards can contribute to the quality of education we intend to achieve with this legislative proposal. I think this is a very good point. In our view, the supervisory board is one of the components of an educational institution, although this can be formally interpreted differently. In our view, students, especially parents, teachers and school leaders, should be involved in this process. The Supervisory Board should be involved in formulating the school plan and the vision from which a school intends to work. So we wholeheartedly agree with this suggestion. Our advice would be: take advantage of the power of thought, life wisdom and experience that are often combined in a supervisory board, to come up with a good and vital school plan with a clear educational vision. Of course, it is also up to the supervisory boards to ask the board of directors or whatever term is used for this: are the ambitions expressed achieved? I can even imagine an annual feedback. However, it is up to the authority itself to set that up. The VTOI (Association of Supervisors in Educational Institutions), the umbrella organisation, without reservation receives from us the advice to be very focused and to play an active role in shaping internal supervision. I would like to thank Mrs Van Toorenburg for her words of appreciation. We have done this work with joy. I would also like to thank Mr Verhoeven for his words of appreciation. I shall come back to the amendment separately. Of course, Mrs Jadnanancing's heartfelt words will make you shine. That's pretty much enough. I'll leave the question to the Secretary of State. Mrs Straus has asked whether the implementation of the school plan is also a task to be monitored by the inspection. Yes, that's right, but the school plan includes not only a reflection on the adequacy requirements and the way in which the school gives hands and feet to them, but also a reflection on all kinds of other wishes, demands, proposals, ideas and ambitions that a school has. With regard to the adequacy requirements, the inspection simply has an judging role to play. With regard to the other choices made by a school, the inspection has the position of an interlocutor, with a stimulating role.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u146	I am not so much concerned that the inspection should assess the content of those other parts. I am concerned that if a school itself indicates what it means by good education, this must be visible in the school. I think the inspection should be able to look at this and get involved in her story. Otherwise, the school plan is just a paper tiger.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u147	In the school plan, the school will at least have to take account of the impact of the adequacy requirements, which is why I mentioned them. In that sense, a school plan cannot by definition be a paper tiger. A school's own choices can only be discussed. The inspection can therefore reach certain conclusions, but cannot reach an opinion if it is not about the adequacy requirements.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u148	I think it's the essence here. That is why we think that these different predicates are a good idea and you are not. What good is it if a school writes down that it wants to be fantastic in X and then doesn't live up to that in practice? Then what good is that gonna do us? Isn't that exactly what makes the difference between a school that believes in its vision and realizes it and a school that only carries out its requirements?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u149	On that point, however, the inspection does express its findings. It does not give judgements, because that is about the adequacy requirements and the concrete supervision. However, the inspection does give its findings. The inspection reports along two lines. It gives its opinion on the fulfilment of the adequacy requirements and gives its findings on everything that comes further into education, which is beyond that. Both reports shall be published. As far as we're concerned, that's the best guarantee that a school will do what it writes down. If an inspection states in a report that it does not see what the school has in its ambition, in its vision, in concrete teaching practice, it is fatal for a school. We believe that this instrument is many times more effective than a label. What if an inspection sticks one of them to it? That doesn't mean much. Material information that is publicly accessible is much more effective and also much more helpful in shaping and searching for a way to do it. That's what the conversation's gonna be about a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u150	Mrs. Straus, you've already interrupted twice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u151	No, but she wanted to say of course...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u152	No, we're not gonna provoke anything. You may proceed with your answer. I really want to get on with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u153	Too bad, I did my best. I would like to thank Mr Straus and Mr Dijkgraaf for their motion on item No. 19. We shall leave that motion to the House. Finally, we have to respond to the three amendments that have been tabled. There will be an amended version of the amendment to item No. 15 by Mr Verhoeven. We find it difficult to assess this and await the final version of that amended amendment. The amendment in part No. 16 is about the evaluation. We leave the opinion on that amendment to the House. On the amendment to item No. 2 of the motion for a resolution (Doc. 17 I would like to say the following. As proposers, we have a clear preference for dealing with this in a different way to this initiative proposal. In that sense, therefore, we do not recommend this amendment. Mr. Chairman. I think this is what we needed to discuss. I would like to conclude our contribution, also on behalf of my colleagues Rog and Van Meenen. We have worked together so far in an extremely pleasant way, and we hope that this will continue in the future. This cooperation has been made possible by the three group employees Gijsbert Leertuwer, Daniëlle Koster and Huub Linthorst. It is an extremely enjoyable experience to know your political experience in such a way. It is extremely pleasurable that there are critical interlocutors. You may want certain things from your political point of view, but there are people standing next to you who say: you may want to, but... And then the conversation continues. We've all experienced that. Because of that abrasion, because of that friction, there is a certain shine. I hope that in this initiative proposal you have all noticed this shine. It might be dazzling! Thank you very much for all your input.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u154	Thank you very much, Mr Bishop. I now give the floor to the Minister for Education, Culture and Science.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u155	Mr. Chairman. I can be very brief, because the authors have answered all the questions that were addressed to them competently and effectively in my opinion. The same applies to their reaction to the Van Nispen/Jasper van Dijk motion on piece No. 18, which states that the introduction of differentiated supervision is contrary to the spirit of the Bishop-law c.s. The procedural answer is that this bill does not regulate the differentiated supervision. That is not the case. The more substantive assessment is that it does not conflict with differentiated supervision, because we want to move towards a situation on the one hand and improve it on the other. There is nothing against getting different judgements in this stimulating role, where the school plan is the starting point. The government therefore also advises against the adoption of this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u156	Mrs Jadnansing asked a question about citizenship. That is a very relevant theme. I, too, will talk to the inspection of the proceeds from the round table. It is a subject that has, of course, been raised before, including in a committee. The law requires schools to give substance to citizenship; point. One school does that in a fantastic way and has complicated conversations and so on. That is the way we would like to see it, which also exposes the frictions when certain values and standards come into conflict with each other. It's about how you treat it as a student and how you shape it in practice. You can also say that if a school pays attention to Princess Day and the functioning of parliament, it has also fulfilled the citizenship mission. Actually, the law doesn't say much about that. That is one of the reasons why we asked Paul Schnabel and his Platform Education2032 what important elements are. If we are talking about the overall curriculum, could we not perhaps get a little more attention to the broader remit for education, including matters such as personalisation and citizenship? I think we will come back to that later this year. Mrs Straus and Mr Dijkgraaf have tabled a motion, on item No. 19, on the evaluation of adequacy requirements. That motion calls for quite a lot, namely to do a little more on top of what I already gave in the first period. If it is meant with 'application, consistency and effectiveness' that we have to measure this for each individual requirement in the practice of education, it is a huge operation. If you mean to ask whether the inspection is capable of doing well with this, is it a consistent story and more of a weighting? Well, then I don't have a problem with it. The same applies to the second operative part, which calls for a periodic evaluation. If you do something like that, I don't think you should do it every year. "Period" can also cover a somewhat longer period of time. Let me come back to that as soon as we send you the letter of order as you put it in this motion. Then I can leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u157	The Secretary of State interprets the motion exactly as intended. During the debate there was talk that the adequacy requirements would be formulated in such a way as to enable the inspection to be carried out and monitored. That is what we mean by effectiveness. If that's what the Secretary of State can do, I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u158	With this explanation, I ask whether the Secretary of State responds positively to this motion. I note that this is the case. I'm just gonna take a look at the proposers. Mr Verhoeven will come up with an amended amendment. I believe that the authors will give their opinion on this in writing. If all this is the case for Tuesday, the amendments, the bill and the motions will be voted on next Tuesday. This brings us to the end of the examination of this initiative proposal. I call Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u159	If we can agree that Mr Verhoeven's amended amendment is available in the short term, we will ensure that it is completed by Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u160	That's understandable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u161	Then we really have come to the end of the examination of this initiative proposal. I would like to thank the authors very much for their contribution. I would also like to thank the two leaders. I thank Members and thank those who have taken note of this debate.
