ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-10.u1	Meanwhile, the Minister of Security and Justice has also arrived. I'd like to welcome him. Speaking time is tight, so let's get started quickly. I give the floor to the first speaker from the Chamber, Mr Sjoerdsma. His speaking time is eight minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-10.u2	Mr. Chairman. I believe in the International Criminal Court. It is one of the most important instruments against impunity that we have. During the period 2005-2007 I travelled a lot through Sudan. There the criminal court was a source of hope for the victims of the crimes committed in Darfur. Those crimes were still fresh in memory and even took place at that time, but there was hope that justice would come, because there was the criminal court. I also remember Sudanese ministers uncomfortable when Dutch ministers closed the conversation with'see you in The Hague'. The criminal court is about the prevention of crimes, the protection of witnesses and victims and the trial of offenders. The fact that the criminal court exists and that perpetrators have to appear before the judges sooner or later has a huge impact on those offenders. That is a preventive effect. This means that impunity is no longer a given. All that makes the criminal court invaluable. At the same time, I regret to note that the criminal court is under enormous pressure. It squeaks and it cracks. The number of convictions is stabbing. The case against the Kenyan president has fallen apart. The support level among African states is decreasing. War criminal Al-Bashir is allowed to leave South Africa, which is also a state that has joined the ICC Treaty. Not to mention the structural shortage of resources. I'm not alone in that sentiment. Last summer, at The Huffington Post, there was a call from no less than sixteen foreign ministers who stood up for the criminal court. Sixteen countries believe that the criminal court can be better, better, but also deserves more support. To my surprise, the signature of the Netherlands, even the host country of the criminal court, was not included. The minister knew about it. He wanted to sign from different regions. Of course, that is logical and understandable, but it also raises the question of why he did not sign in the end. I would therefore like to take this opportunity today to call on the Foreign Minister to be more visible and more committed to the criminal court. Now, more than ever, there's every reason for that. The Kampala amendments, which are of course named after the place in Uganda where they came into being, are the reason for this debate. These amendments add aggression and the use of prohibited weapons in armed internal conflicts as a crime to the jurisdiction of the criminal court. It is a commendable idea: criminalising aggression against other states, with hopefully a deterrent effect. However, it is also an addition to which my group has questions. She doesn't make the court's position any easier.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-10.u3	I have, of course, listened with interest to Mr Sjoerdsma, particularly his introduction. It was a passionate and moving story. Now that he's starting the substantive explanation, he's using exactly the same words he used in the media today. He spoke of adding a crime to the criminal court's mandate. I know Mr Sjoerdsma as a great pillar, as a great supporter of the criminal court. However, had that crime not long been included in the original Rome Statute, in Article 5?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-10.u4	Absolutely. It's in Article 5. Since no agreement could be reached on the definition of aggression at the time of the adoption of the Statute and the establishment of the Criminal Court, it has been a dead letter until now. In that sense, Mr Servaes is, of course, right. It is not an addition, but a further definition of "an activation," I would say "a part of that part of the Rome Statute."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-10.u5	Mr Sjoerdsma is talking about his own words, but I would think it was pure, given the nature of the debate, to describe it exactly in this way. It is about the definition and the way in which this crime is applied by the criminal court. The suggestion that the criminal court should now be given an extension of the mandate is, of course, not in line with reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-10.u6	No, but then we have to be really clean. Of course, it is not a question of extending the mandate, but of extending what the criminal court actually does on a daily basis. Right now, it doesn't have to deal with cases related to the crime of aggression. It doesn't deal with those cases either. In this respect, the term "addition" should not refer to the mandate, but to the daily work of the criminal court. That is exactly where some of my concerns lie about these amendments. Genocide, war crimes, crimes against humanity: they are the most serious violations of human rights. Universally barbaric, degrading and criminal. Crimes on a scale that shockes all of humanity, crimes directed against the individual, against people and groups. However, the crime of aggression focuses on something else: violating the sovereignty, territorial integrity or political dependence of a state, something which is not often universally undisputed. How does the crime of aggression relate to the other crimes under the Rome Statute? Is the Minister prepared, following Norway, to commit that the International Criminal Court should use its jurisdiction with the highest priority in the fight against genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes, to ensure that these crimes receive the attention they deserve and to ensure that the crime does not undermine the scarce capacity already available? Then I come to the definition of "aggression." How can it be effectively determined whether the use of force can be defined as aggression? More than other crimes under the Rome Statute, the crime of aggression has a political component. What one state can experience as an act of aggression is for another perhaps a heroic humanitarian intervention and vice versa. The explanatory statement states that these should be cases on which there is broad consensus in the world community that these aggressions are concerned. What should be understood by a broad consensus? I ask this because cases where there is a reasonable difference of opinion on legitimacy and legality are outside the scope of criminalisation. If we look only at what Russia and China describe as aggression and what the West describes as aggression, the question arises as to how likely the Minister is that there will be a real consensus on this matter. I also have a question about the past. Could Kosovo, for example, be regarded as aggression by the International Criminal Court in 1999? How should aggression as a crime begin to relate to responsibility to protect? Will the criminalisation of aggression not also inhibit the further development of responsibility to protect? Then there is the timing of this amendment. I told you during my introduction: the International Criminal Court is squeaking and cracking. We see this particularly in Africa, where it is at stake. Last year, Kenya was narrowly prevented from leaving the state parties' meeting. My group is very concerned about this. Can the Minister promise that he will come up with an initiative to try to increase that support with the main critics on the African continent and to speak about our concerns without giving too much weight to the essential elements of the Rome Statute? He must be trying to keep those states on board. Now I sometimes get the feeling that this criticism can only increase there without any effort being made to do so. I'd also like to see more at the bottom. Why not use the Netherlands, for example, on scholarships for students from African countries in the field of international law in order to increase support for the International Criminal Court in African states? My group is also concerned about the cooperation of states with the International Criminal Court. The prosecution had to withdraw the case against President Kenyatta of Kenya, because the Kenyan government did not cooperate sufficiently in providing information and also because witnesses were intimidated. This shows that prosecuting a sitting head of state can be made impossible if states do not cooperate. I ask the Minister, particularly with regard to those witnesses, to pay more money for the protection of witnesses and victims. Then you might be able to hold up a case like that against Kenyatta. In my introduction, I mentioned President Al-Bashir of Darfur, who was allowed to leave for South Africa, who was allowed to wander around and leave South Africa. South Africa is a signatory to the Rome Statute. I found it deafeningly silent after that, while in 2010 Al-Bashir traveled to Chad and Ashton immediately spoke out. Immediately there was a démarche by the European Union in N'Djamena. What has the Minister done bilaterally and at EU level to address this issue with South Africa? Is the Minister prepared to agree to work towards a common EU response to this kind of violation of the International Criminal Court's agreements? That is important, because the prosecution is now even obliged to temporarily halt the investigation into Darfur. If the criminal court does not know itself supported by superpowers, then it offers free play for atrocities. The criminal court suffers from a constant shortage of resources. The quality of the cases suffers from a lack of capacity and the Security Council still refers cases through without making any financial contribution. I would like the Minister within the Assembly of States Parties to make an automatic increase in the prosecutor's budget as more cases are opened to monitor the quality of things. I'd like to get a commitment. The notion that the criminal court has a purpose and needs reinforcement must be higher on the international agenda. The criminal court is in heavy weather. The Netherlands as a host country must do everything in its power to support the criminal court in order to give all those victims the justice they deserve. However, my group has doubts about aggression as a crime and its effect, particularly in the area where it may make the position of the court more difficult. That makes it all the more important for my group that this minister now makes more work of supporting the court. I would like to hear how the Minister intends to take up our suggestions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-10.u7	Mr. Chairman. When the Rome Statute on the International Criminal Court was established in the Italian capital on 17 July 1998, the court was given jurisdiction over four crimes: genocide, crimes against humanity, war crimes and the crime of aggression. Due to differences of opinion, it was decided that the criminal court would exercise jurisdiction over the offence of aggression only as soon as this crime was defined and as soon as it was established under what conditions the court would exercise jurisdiction in this respect in relation to the offence of aggression. In 2010, in Kampala, these hordes were taken. That was the result of lengthy negotiations. The agreement reached in Uganda, the Kampala amendments we are discussing today, was adopted by consensus. Nevertheless, the crime is not yet within the jurisdiction of the criminal court, as this agreement must first be ratified or accepted by 30 States Parties. In addition, the agreement should be activated at a special session to be held after 1 January 2017. There is indeed the necessary criticism of the agreement reached at Kampala. One example is the opt-out declaration which allows countries to evade the jurisdiction of the Court. By the way, that is limited to aggression. I am also thinking of the so-called threshold clause, which allows only the most serious acts of aggression to be brought to justice. On this clause, I have another question, which was not answered quite clearly earlier in the note on the report. The clause means that not every form of aggression can come before the International Criminal Court. These must be the most serious cases on which there is broad consensus in the global community. My colleague Mr Sjoerdsma has already asked the question: when is there such a broad consensus in the world community? How do you measure that? Can the Minister elaborate on this? It is also possible to criticise the timing of the extension of jurisdiction. The criminal court has been under attack more and more in recent years. There are doubts about its effectiveness. The court is struggling with legitimacy. Questions have been raised as to whether the extension of jurisdiction is not a threat to the criminal court and whether more support for the criminal court should be sought first. How does the Minister respond to this? Despite this criticism, the SP considers it important to extend the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court. When the Nuremberg Tribunal was set up after World War II in 1946, it was established that the crime of aggression is the ultimate international crime. It's a crime that results in many other crimes. The Cabinet states in the note following the report that the extension of jurisdiction increases the effectiveness of the International Criminal Court and further contributes to the fight against impunity and to a stable international legal order. The SP very much hopes for that. It can also be expected to act as a deterrent. The consensus reached in Kampala is also very important. I have a few more questions about progress. Can the Minister indicate how many countries have now ratified or accepted the Kampala amendments? Will the required number of 30 be achieved on time? Does the Minister have any further views on States Parties considering signing an opt-out declaration? Can the Minister indicate whether the Netherlands will give full support to the agreement reached at Kampala during the activation meetings? Are obstacles expected at that hearing? I have just mentioned it: the debate in today's Lower House on the extension of jurisdiction, which is taking place against the background of major and increasing criticism of the functioning of the International Criminal Court. This criticism is sometimes unjustified, but unfortunately it is also justified on a regular basis. The fact is that, despite its thirteen years of existence and its EUR 1.1 billion budget, the court has only been able to pronounce two convictions. These are two successes in themselves, but they are in stark contrast to the expectations at the end of the last century. Another recent disappointment is, for example, that the chief prosecutor of the International Criminal Court threw the towel into the ring concerning the case against Kenyan President Kenyatta. It's already been mentioned. That happened because of flawed evidence. Due to insufficient cooperation from the UN Security Council, the prosecutor felt obliged to stop an investigation into war crimes in Darfur. There is also the accusation that the criminal court is using victorious rights. There is persistent criticism from a number of African countries at the criminal court, including for alleged bias against African countries. This has led, among other things, to some African countries not participating in the execution of the arrest warrant against Sudanese President Omar Al-Bashir, such as South Africa recently. Can the Minister state what is being done by the Netherlands to keep African countries in the criminal court? That question is a strong one for my group. I come to the lack of witness protection in some countries. In the Kenya trial, for example, one witness was murdered and at least four witnesses are missing. That is extremely serious. It also partly explains why things sometimes fail. Does the Minister have any opportunity to commit himself to further improving witness protection? What could or should happen? At first many countries joined the Rome Statute, but since then hardly any new countries have joined. 123 countries are now members, but important countries such as the United States, Russia and China are not permanent members of the UN Security Council. Can the Minister elaborate on how these countries are also encouraged to join? What concrete efforts are being made by the Netherlands and how regularly, for example, is this being called for? Other important countries are not yet party to the Convention, such as Ukraine and Iraq. Does the Netherlands also insist on membership with these countries? I'm closing up. We are also discussing today the amendment of the International Crimes Act, which also includes the offence of aggression in this Dutch law. The Netherlands therefore has jurisdiction when an international crime has been committed against a Dutchman or by a Dutchman. The Netherlands could exercise jurisdiction from the moment the law enters into force. This is quite possible before the amendments to the Statute of the International Criminal Court have entered into force. However, the government feels that this is undesirable. I don't understand that very well. I find the reasoning unconvincing. I do understand that persecution and trial in the Netherlands will not always be possible and that these are matters with a political dimension. That does not mean that we, as the Netherlands, believe that this should also be punishable in our national law on international crime. Apart from the problems that might arise with persecution, is there really any good argument not to allow our law to enter into force for the time being? What is the Minister's response to that? I think I should put this question to the Minister of Security and Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-10.u8	Mr. Chairman. When the International Criminal Court operates, it seems to be assumed that if you throw a conflict into a judicial machine, a good solution will automatically come out. Unlike other tribunals, the International Criminal Court is not always open to different forms of peace negotiations. It also does not recognise safety valves, such as the "political question" doctrine, which allows judges to keep sensitive political issues out of the door. This means that a legal judgement will have to be reached on every case, even if a case does not lend itself to it. This is also apparent from the Kenyatta case mentioned above. Quite apart from the question of whether this case belonged to the International Criminal Court at all, the court might have done wisely to have that case settled, but it never came to that. The result was a defeat strategy dictated by jurisdiction, which the International Criminal Court has now placed in a vulnerable position. In Africa, confidence in the International Criminal Court is falling rapidly. In October 2013, African countries were about to cancel the Rome Statute by group. It is to be expected that African states themselves will no longer refer cases to the court or cooperate with the cases against Africans that are being made, by the prosecutor or by the Security Council. When it is argued that the Netherlands as a host country of the International Criminal Court has a special responsibility, the VVD believes that we must ensure that the court retains its authority and can continue to count on sufficient support. The government's more or less denying that there is something going on with the International Criminal Court is not helping. That is the picture that emerges from the explanatory memorandum to the adoption law and the note following the report. The Netherlands seems to be chasing an institution that may not know exactly which way to go. In this way, the Netherlands is watching how the International Criminal Court may implode, with all the negative consequences for the economic position and the peace and security reputation of The Hague. In the opinion of the VVD Group, this attitude does not correspond to the alleged special responsibility of the Netherlands before the court. In my contribution, I would just like to address aspects of the adoption and not of the implementation of the Kampala amendments, because without approval there will be no implementation. Moreover, I am only looking at the amendments relating to the offence of aggression. Over the past decades, many attempts have been made to describe aggression legally, but these have rarely been happy and have rarely led to a good result. That is why the original text of the Rome Statute failed to describe the crime and put it on the agenda of the first Review Conference, with an excuse for English terminology. That was a little too much not to lose face. You can't pretend to create something new very forcefully, then fail to produce some concreteizations. In the end, that is the background to the text that is now before us. It is noteworthy that this fact is omitted from the description of the case in the explanatory memorandum. Anyway, the text on the crime of aggression lacks sharpness. Politically speaking, this may not be such a problem and it is understandable, but it is impossible to experiment with criminal acts, which must be sharp. I know in the presence of our Minister for Security and Justice, who will undoubtedly be aware of this. The description of the offence is too indeterminate and contrary to the requirement of legality, which potentially neglects the rights of suspects. In addition, the general defence of the Rome Statute applies to the conduct of acts of aggression, but not to the specific ones. Due to the vagueness of the provision, support to, for example, ISIS could be regarded as aggression, while the Rome Statute does not allow the defence of humanitarian intervention. It is remarkable that the government is apparently reading this kind of protest in the text of the amendments, at least as I understand from the explanatory statement. For example, in the government's view, violent activities do not result in criminal aggression if they result from the responsibility to protect. However, that view cannot be traced back to the text of the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-10.u9	I actually wanted to ask Mr Taverne earlier if he could explain the concept of trias politicians when he provided all these court cases with comments, but we might come back to that later. He stated that the definition of aggression which the 123 Member States of the Rome Statute came up with five years ago was lacking. Can Mr Taverne explain how his opinion is so much sharper than the opinion of all 123 Member States that unanimously supported that definition?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-10.u10	I would not like to presume that I am here to provide an own assessment of the judgment of all the 123 Member States. I am here because this Parliament, at least this Chamber, is today debating, among other things, a description of a crime, under the influence of which we too will eventually be faced. To be honest, I do not really care what those other 123 Member States have found in a ten-year negotiation process. We are now debating the law on approval and the implementing law. It is now a question of whether we in the House of Representatives consider that this description of the offence is sufficiently precise to enable us to apply it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-10.u11	It is certainly true that we are here now, but my question was how Mr Taverne explains that he alone concludes that the definition is not sharp enough. Let me put it even more clearly. Not only those 123 Member States thought that this was an appropriate definition, not least the legal adviser of the United States, who was involved in the whole negotiation process, concluded at the end that we are there with this definition and with these arrangements on how to proceed. Mr Taverne, like me, knows that the United States has been extremely critical throughout this process, but even they came to the conclusion that they could work with this definition. Can the Commissioner, then, perhaps explain again how he has reached a different verdict and why he says: no, I think all the 123 Member States, plus the one, have seen it all wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-10.u12	I will, but only after I have established that even the involvement of the Americans has not led the United States to become enthusiastically involved in the International Criminal Court. Apparently, they don't have that much faith in this. And that of the 123 Member States may be so, but I also note that not all the 123 Member States have ratified it. In the end, of course, that's the jumping moment. You can negotiate whatever you want, but ultimately the final test is in Parliament; provided that parliamentary consent is required, which fortunately is the case here. I believe that 23 countries have ratified so far, so there are still 100 to go. I do not exclude the fact that there are still similar objections in 100 countries to those I raise here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-10.u13	Are you going to discuss these objections? That was Mr Servaes' question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-10.u14	Oh, yeah. Well, I'd be happy to go over the description of the crime here with Mr Servaes. But I do not know whether this will benefit the debate, and that is why I have done enough. I'm sure he knows the description of the crime, so he also knows where the possible vulnerabilities are. His question was why I am speaking on behalf of the VVD, and I am speaking on behalf of the 40 members of the VVD Group, that this description of crime is not sufficiently sharp. Well, that is because, certainly in conjunction with the government's explanatory statement, there are still too many questions about the scope of this definition: how far does it go? Actually, I had just gotten to that point in my text. It is not insignificant that the government reads a defence in the responsibility to protect. But the VVD Group, for example, does not do so, even if only because of the Vienna Treaty, which is based on the text of a treaty and thus also on the provisions laid down in amendments. So it's not about what the government reads in something, it's about what's really going on. It is therefore even more remarkable that the Government states that it is intended that cases where there can reasonably be a difference of opinion as to the legitimacy or legality of the action are excluded from the definition. It does so with a reference to two understandings attached as annexes to the resolution, which lay down the text of the amendments. Once again, according to the Vienna Convention, the text of the Convention is primarily regarded as the expression of the parties to the Treaties. He doesn't talk about this in all languages. Moreover, such an exception should be included in the text itself in order to have strength and to clearly define the scope of criminal conduct. That has not happened explicitly here. The government argues with a kind of circumstantial evidence that it will not be such a rush. That is a bit too much for my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-10.u15	I hesitate for a moment, because I think the Minister can explain this perfectly. The reason why humanitarian intervention cannot be included in such a description is that international law is constantly evolving. Mr Taverne knows that, too. This is the most serious crime, the ultimate crime, namely aggression, which results in many crimes. That is the violation of the ban on violence, as laid down in international law. Since these issues are under development, you cannot do so in the same way as in national law, in which you define in the Code of Criminal Law a description that is very concrete and clear, with elements that the Public Prosecutor's Office must then prove as a prosecuting authority. I think Mr Taverne is looking for points of criticism, but his criticism is very unreasonable. What exactly is he afraid of when the Netherlands comes under the influence of this crime description?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-10.u16	I am not afraid of anything, but we cannot see how this provision will be interpreted. We approve something here, and that applies not only to the coming year, but also to the coming decades, in the light of experience. A number of fundamental questions, for example on the defences, have not been sufficiently clearly answered. On this basis, the VVD Group believes that if they may later become involved in a conflict or humanitarian action, you will not be able to expose your own country and your own inhabitants if you do not know whether they are covered or not. I believe that Mr Van Nispen and I share the desire to make international law strong and effective and to allow international action from a humanitarian point of view, but this provision may have the opposite effect. It's not supposed to happen, and maybe it won't, but we can't rule it out. Frankly, I expect Mr Van Nispen on my way or on my side.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-10.u17	I don't see why. If you take international law and the ban on aggression seriously, you shouldn't be afraid to have yourself tested if necessary. Mr Taverne is well aware that international law is under development. There are a number of exceptions to the ban on the use of force. Of course, Mr Taverne knows him like no other. There's a threshold clause. On this basis, only the most gross violations of the ban on violence in international law can be submitted to the International Criminal Court. That is why I ask Mr Taverne, the VVD Group, once again where this fear comes from in order to have international law checked, also in view of that threshold clause.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-10.u18	It is not that we do not want to expose ourselves to this, but not on the basis of this too undefined description. This is independent of the fact, but that is a separate issue, that the development of international law teaches us that it is wise to describe as precisely as possible what you want to achieve. In fact, international law tends to develop more and more expansively. This has led to the gradual loss of authority in international law. That's exactly what we don't want. Once again, I am not afraid at all of bringing the Netherlands and Dutch residents under international law. In fact, we do this like no other country, because we have abandoned our legal sovereignty through Article 94 of the Constitution. However, it is wise to consider with that knowledge what we are getting into this time. If there were clearer definitions and a number of objections were clearly included in the text of the amendments, we would no longer have a number of questions. In short, it is not so much a question of unwillingness. It is more a question of whether it is sensible on the basis of what is now in place. Finally, the Government's argument that doubts on the basis of the aforementioned understandings are outside the scope of the crime of aggression cannot really be read, even with the help of the most creative interpretation. The understanding merely states that, in answering the question of whether certain conduct should be observed, the crime consists of three components and that all three must be fulfilled if there is to be aggression. This has led to a number of questions from the VVD Group. Does the Minister consider that the description of the offence is so sharp that it complies with the "nulla poena" principle, which forms part of the national and international human rights catalogue? Does the government, with the support of the Minister for the amendments, believe that the general interest of promoting international law, as enshrined in our Constitution, is also best served, precisely in order to safeguard our political and military leaders from criminal proceedings in the future, when they decide to use force, for example on the basis of humanitarian considerations? Where in the text of the amendments does the Minister find the basis for his statement that activities in the context of responsibility to protect fall outside the scope of the crime description? Or is this perhaps just an assessment of the Minister? How much value should be attached to the aforementioned understandings, now that the Vienna Convention merely determines the text of the Convention or its additions? I've mentioned the United States for a while. The chance that the US and other great powers such as China and Russia would ever be party to the Rome Statute was not very great, but the addition of the crime of aggression, even now that the Americans have been actively involved, seems to have lost the chance of accession. Precisely because these countries are often involved in military action, they do not need to enter the unknown apparatus of the International Criminal Court. The Assembly of States Parties and the Netherlands seemed unaware of this risk. At least, on page 5 of the explanatory statement, the government states with approval that the assembly has explicitly involved these countries in the discussions on the text of the amendments, although they are not party to the Statute. It is very nice that this has happened, but I would like to know from the Minister what the added value of this involvement is. Now that the International Criminal Court is rapidly losing the support of African states, Mr Sjoerdsma has already referred to this, the question is whether it would be wise to further undermine the support base in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-10.u19	This evening's debate is rather complicated, with a lot of legal details. I therefore attach great importance to keeping it as pure as possible. We have had a little debate earlier on the appreciation of the United States, but perhaps it would be okay if I shared with Mr Taverne what the legal advisor from the US delegation to Kampala said at the end of the conference. He said that it initially seemed that not all parties to the treaty were inclined to give the Security Council a role in this story. In his statement, he concluded with satisfaction: "the States Parties rejected solutions that provided for jurisdiction without a Security Council or consent-based screen." In other words, precisely because the Security Council has been given such an important role and precisely because the United States can apply the right of veto in the Security Council, Mr Taverne knows that they are also served on this point. So the US's doubts were not in the addition of the crime of aggression, but in the other areas where the Security Council has no role to play. It would be good if Mr Taverne could confirm this reading.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-10.u20	I assume what Mr Servaes has just read is correct. I'm happy to accept that. I love the United States. I've lived there for five years. I love the Americans. But I note that even with their involvement, they are still not a party to the International Criminal Court. So with all the appreciation I have for the Americans, it doesn't say that much. Apparently, it has not led them to suddenly become enthusiastic about the International Criminal Court. So quite frankly, what is its value?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-10.u21	The value of this is that we are not talking today about the other three crimes and the doubt that the United States has about them, because this is about the fact that the prosecutor of the court itself can take up a case. That is why the US did not become a party in the end. But for this crime, at the end of the Kampala Conference, the US found that it was well covered. I also regret that they did not become members before, that they did not become members after Kampala, but Mr Taverne's theorem was: because of the Kampala protocol, the chances of them becoming members are even smaller. And that's not true. They have just said that this part, as far as they are concerned, is adequately covered. So it would be a good idea for us to endorse that conclusion together here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-10.u22	I note that the chances of them becoming members of the International Criminal Court have certainly not increased. I shall also leave Mr Servaes's and mine to be assessed. I have a number of questions on behalf of the VVD Group. Does the Minister believe that the chances of major powers such as the US, Russia and China becoming parties to the Rome Statute have been increased or reduced by the entry into force of these amendments? Mr Servaes has already made an advance on this, but I would also very much like to hear from the government how this is thought. There is also the question as to whether or not these amendments have been put into practice in their assessment. How does this assessment then relate to the Government's remark that it assumes that this enlargement increases the effectiveness of the Court. I can imagine that the effectiveness of the Court will be increased by a greater number of Member States, particularly the large countries, the great powers, than by extending the powers of the Court. Something has been said about the effectiveness of the court so far. Although I could be accused of economics, I cannot ignore the fact that EUR 1 billion has been spent on the International Criminal Court since its inception. That resulted in two convictions. That may be worth it, but it's still a lot of money. In any case, the court can judge and prosecute only a few cases every year. The cases of aggression will be added to this proposal, although they may be even more difficult to pass on politically and in evidence than the court has to deal with now. This will therefore require the use of even more resources and people, which is likely to result in an even greater impact on the financial resources available. Will the prosecution and prosecution of aggression crimes, in the government's view, not lead to a disproportionate seizure of the Court's resources, which puts further pressure on the efficiency of this institution? By working out aggression in this way, a category of disputes is brought within the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court which has a strong political burden. In fact, a very important role has been assigned to the Security Council, which has linked the political judgment or an act of aggression to its legal judgment. That kind of political dispute calls for a settlement at the political level. By dedicating them to the International Criminal Court, they are being judged. That is all the more pressing now that the criminal court is trying to keep politics out of the door. Moreover, the objective judicial criteria for assessing the justification of such actions are lacking, which means that the assessment will necessarily be subjective and political in nature. Is the assessment of political decision-making in the field of the use of violence not part of the political forum? That's how I ask the government. Would it not be wiser to abandon the idea of a judicial procedure, with the anomaly of the involvement of the UN Security Council, in favour of the existing situation, in which the UN Security Council alone is responsible for the assessment? I believe that we have already reached a number of spokesmen on this point. Furthermore, are the court still at the service of objective judicial standards which can be used in the assessment of the aggression crimes, and if so, what are they? It is now clear that my group has serious doubts about the proposed adoption of the Kampala amendments, particularly those relating to the crime of aggression. For this reason, I have now tabled an amendment designed not to allow the part of the amendments aimed at the crime of aggression to be approved, precisely in order to prevent the other amendments, additions and modernisations from simply being able to move forward and move forward. on behalf of my group, I look forward to the Government's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-10.u23	I do not know exactly whether you have used the full eighteen minutes, but at least it was an extensive speech. If I sum it up myself, the doubt of the VVD Group is that it has little fiduciality in it that the definition is clear. There's room for interpretation. That is true, I repeat, Mr Taverne. That's the case with every crime you put into a law. In fact, that is also the case with the other three offences, which are already being submitted to the International Criminal Court. We have had a very long discussion here in this Chamber about whether or not things that have been going on for 100 years can be defined as genocide. Last summer, when things got out of hand in Iraq, we had discussions here on whether we could already determine whether war crimes were involved. It is specific to the nature of the type of crimes submitted to the International Criminal Court for interpretation. To return to the trias politician: that interpretation is up to the judge. Can you tell me if you agree with that? To what extent is there more interpretation of this crime than of the other three, which is also subject to a lot of discussion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-10.u24	The good news is that I agree with four fifths of Mr Servaes' comments. We agree on that. Mr Servaes himself points out how difficult it is, looking back in history, to define definitions and assess whether something falls within those definitions. It is precisely because it is so complicated and the interests involved can be so large and complex that it is a misconception to think that it will be okay if you leave it to an international court. Hence my previous remark: if only it had been left to the discretion of the UN Security Council. That's not because I don't think the judge is doing a good job. But the question is whether the judge is equipped to assess this type of complex, comprehensive and many countries touching problems in a purely legal way. We have had this discussion in this House in other areas as regards the interpretation of the law by judges. I think you might be wronging the complexity of this type of issue by leaving it to a technical judge and, apart from the UN Security Council, taking decisions on prosecution and conviction yourself. I believe that the role of the Security Council is an essential one, and I will also include the political and international component. If you do not, at least you allow it to be left to the court alone, then you will not avoid working with a much more precise description of the crime than is the case at present. I think that's the problem. If it can only be judged in a much broader international political gremium, then you can afford greater freedom in the description of the crime than if you also grant it to an international court.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-10.u25	That was a very long answer. Let me try to put the question a little shorter. So perhaps Mr Taverne can keep the answer shorter. Just in a sense: what is the difference in complexity between the crimes we are talking about today and the three crimes that are already being applied by the International Criminal Court?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-10.u26	The crime of aggression is much less defined than the other crimes. That leaves a lot more room. I've already given an example. Just in the absence of the humanitarian defence that would put you in a situation that... Let's say we're going to create safe ports in the region, given the current migratory flow. Let's say we do that on the territory of the Republic of Syria. Apart from the question of how far we can distinguish or recognise any government in that region...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-10.u27	Mr Taverne, for the sake of order, I am going to ask you to keep your answers really concise.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-10.u28	This would mean that a complaint could be made for aggression, because there are activities on the territory of a country they have not asked for, and I think that is a little too undefined.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-10.u29	Mr Servaes, I see you again at the interrupting microphone, but we're doing two-way interruptions. I would suggest that we keep it that way. I now give the floor to Mr Oskam.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-10.u30	Mr. Chairman. Looks like I'm on the list for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-10.u31	You have ten minutes to speak, but we are talking about legislation, so if you go over that enormously, I have little to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-10.u32	I know. After three years, you know the rules of the game. Mr. Chairman. We are discussing today the amendments to the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court. The legislative proposal before us implements the amendments accepted at the Kampala Review Conference in June 2010. It extends the definition of war crimes and of the crime of aggression, as well as the conditions for the exercise of jurisdiction by the criminal court in relation to that crime. At first glance, the bill looked like a hammer piece. After all, who does not find aggression or the use of chemical weapons reprehensible? However, more and more questions have arisen with my group, but apparently also with those of D66 and the VVD. I will come back to that later, because I have a lot of questions. The bill may have far-reaching consequences for the criminal court, but also for the Netherlands. Hence the following questions. I'm just gonna get this straightened out. The horrors in Iraq, Syria, Libya and other parts of the world make a deep impression. I myself was a judge-supervisor at the court of The Hague, which, to the exclusion of other courts, investigated international crimes. I've been to Iran to hear the victims of the poison gas attack in Halabja. When you see that, the tears jump in your eyes. It's horrible. I've investigated the tortures of the KhAD military in Kabul, Afghanistan. Every day the most horrific human rights violations are still taking place and daily the need to prosecute the perpetrators of these atrocities is being demonstrated. Unfortunately, however, the criminal court is out of play in Syria. In any case, the extension of the definition of war crimes, including poison gas, is of great importance. It is a serious crime and, of course, it is not difficult to support its criminalisation. That is what my group is doing with regard to the poison gas. It is more complicated and complex on the subject of aggression. The crimes I have just mentioned are so serious that there are countries that want to take action against them by military means. For example, President Obama was about to bomb the Assad regime for the chemical attack on Ghouta in August 2013. In Kosovo, NATO intervened without a UN mandate. Some countries spoke of aggression at that time, and precisely with this crime of aggression, the jurisdiction of the criminal court should be extended, as agreed in Kampala between the states. This shows in a nutshell why this enlargement can have quite a few consequences and raises many questions for my group. At first glance, it is quite clear that the United Nations has been set up to combat the scourge of war. Article 2 (4) of the UN Charter prohibits the use of force. Only if there is self-defense or a mandate from the Security Council is it allowed. Yet there is a grey area. It is not just the Council of State that raises the question of how to demarcate the crime of aggression, which has already been discussed in the input of the VVD, as regards forms of violence permitted under the Charter or otherwise under international law. In addition, not every form of unlawful use of violence is described as aggression, in order to make it even more complicated. The definition of aggression is not politically and legally very sensitive for nothing. The cabinet states in the explanatory statement that a complex and sensitive international issue has been negotiated for decades. In Kampala consensus was reached by adopting the definition of aggression as laid down in Resolution 3314 of the 1974 UN General Assembly, but the question is whether this removes the complexity and political sensitivity. For example, aggression can be understood as the use of any weapon by a State against the territory of another State or by or on behalf of a State of armed gangs, groups of unordered troops or mercenaries engaged in armed acts against another State. With regard to the latter, there are quite a few countries in the Middle East that support jihadists in Syria in many ways, with money, with weapons, with ammunition and also with fighters. The question is whether this is covered by aggression. Was the invasion of Iraq by Bush without a UN mandate aggression? Are humanitarian interventions without a UN mandate, such as NATO action in Kosovo in 1999, included in the definition of aggression? I'm just asking you a few questions. I don't know. What about drone attacks on terrorists on the territory of other countries? As far as we are concerned, the explanatory statement does not provide sufficient clarity. Hence my questions to both ministers, so that we can see if we can get on with this. There are other questions as well. Can leaders of friendly countries be prosecuted for intervention? Will this make the West reluctant to take military action for which there is no undisputed legal basis? Can the Netherlands be embarrassed by trials against government leaders from other countries? What does it do with the support for the criminal court? Let me start with Dutch criminal law. If the Netherlands ratifys, the offence of aggression will also be punishable in Dutch law. This concerns not only Dutch people who commit aggression or those who commit aggression against Dutch people, but everyone who is guilty outside the Netherlands of a crime described in this law when the suspect is in the Netherlands. I just mentioned it. Those were the SMO cases, people who had committed crimes abroad and had moved to the Netherlands. It concerns Article 2 (1) of the International Crimes Act. Is it true that the jurisdiction of the Dutch prosecutor will go even further than that of the criminal court? This can only be prosecuted for aggression if states are party to the statute and have recognised the jurisdiction in the field of aggression. I think the conclusion is that in the Netherlands the prosecution can go beyond the criminal court to do these SMO cases. That can have far-reaching consequences. Perhaps not for sitting heads of state, heads of government and foreign ministers. As long as they are in office, they cannot be prosecuted according to the SMO. But what if they're no longer in office? Can former President Bush, one and two, or former Prime Minister Blair still visit the Netherlands without running the risk of being prosecuted for, for example, the invasion of Iraq, a raid that some lawyers and politicians call illegal and possibly I don't know if it can be seen as aggression? Is it also true that the scope of immunity under customary international law is currently unclear internationally? Even if the prosecution itself refrains from prosecution, individuals and organisations can go to the Dutch courts to enforce prosecution under Article 12. How does the cabinet assess this risk and how much can the publicity and diplomatic damage become for the Netherlands? The International Crimes Act may provide for the immunity of foreign government leaders, but what about, for example, the possibility of prosecuting Dutch ministers? Is it true that the prosecution will be able to prosecute all members of the cabinet for aggression? How does the government judge this? It all seems hypothetical, but it's not that hypothetical. If I have understood Mr Taverne correctly in the past, the VVD wants to get rid of the international straitjacket on military missions. So the VVD also wants to be able to intervene by military means if that is illegal. Does the government recognise that the West in general, and the Netherlands in particular, can become more reluctant to participate in international operations if the legal basis is even somewhat controversial? Is that what we're supposed to want? In any case, the Dutch criminal law still provides for certain immunities, but this is not the case with the statute of the criminal court. It was mentioned earlier that in 2014 Kenyatta was suspected of inciting ethnic violence in the aftermath of the elections in 2007. That led to great fuss among African countries. In fact, Africa threatened to turn its back on the criminal court. So the basis of support is rather fragile. Given the unstable situation in parts of Africa, there may be cases of aggression, with the risk that Africa will still turn its back on the criminal court. What then is an extension of jurisdiction to include the controversial concept of "aggression" in this respect? Does the government see the risk of further politicisation of the criminal court? What are the chances that countries which have not now joined the criminal court will do so after the extension of this jurisdiction? I have another question to ask the government about the statement made by my colleague Servaes to the public. I wonder if that statement is correct and I wonder what the government thinks about it. Mr Servaes said about the safety valve that it would have been built in, which should always lead to the UN Security Council. By using these vetos, the criminal court could be prevented from investigating and prosecuting. I think Mr Servaes' position is very clear, but I ask the government: is it really correct? Is it not true that the prosecution can actually carry out investigations independently and that the criminal court can exercise or may exercise jurisdiction? The court can do this, for example, if the Security Council does not respond within six months after the notification has been sent to the UN Secretary-General. We have discussed this in some detail within the CDA. We see the risk of vetos rather going the other way. We see this more likely to lead to division and decisionlessness in the Security Council. Then it is actually not a safety valve, even though it seems to be at first sight. I would like to hear a response, particularly from the Foreign Minister. Furthermore, I have to deal with the functioning of the criminal court. Other speakers have already said that the court is under pressure. Since its creation, it has come to only two convictions, while it has cost a great deal, within the current jurisdiction. Is enlargement, therefore, at the moment? It is a very sensitive issue? Isn't it also a kind of flight forward? Can the government explain why the Netherlands should ratify it just now? What other reasons are there, other than the reason we have to get those 30 countries? The CDA attaches importance to an effective, well-functioning criminal court and to the punishment of serious international crimes. That is why my group has asked a great many questions. Perhaps it is good to take the time, so that this can be properly arranged and carefully considered.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-10.u33	Any party that initially came to the conclusion that it could agree to such a treaty amendment is, of course, free to look at it again later. Does Mr Oskam say that we have questions to which we first want good answers, and only then can we judge this proposal? Do I understand him that well?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-10.u34	I shall open this debate on behalf of my group. My group is very critical. I have mentioned a number of examples where we are questioning them. You may ask yourself whether, if that is the case, the advantages of what we are going to draw outweigh the disadvantages. I am talking about pros and cons for the criminal court and for the Netherlands. However, I am of course very interested in the answers given by the two ministers. So perhaps we can say a little more about this in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-10.u35	Mr. Oskam creates his cliffhanger. I call Mr Servaes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-10.u36	Mr. Chairman. I have the feeling that I have said so much in interruptions that my speech will be partly a repetition of my already expressed views. First of all, I would like to stress the importance of this subject that we are discussing today. The International Criminal Court was a real breakthrough when it was established in 1998. I myself had the pleasure and also the honour to be at a conference very shortly afterwards in which all the people involved in the establishment were present and spoke to each other about it, so before the court really started. At that meeting was a somewhat fragile Romanian-American gentleman named Benjamin Ferencz. He was involved in the Nuremberg Tribunal at the age of 25, as one of the prosecutors. He testified how important the Nuremberg Tribunal has been to deal with what happened in World War II. He told us that he realized what long and hard road the world had to take to restore mutual tolerance. He told us as a public that if we, as an international community, did not devote ourselves to the development of an effective international legal system, the same cruel mentality that made the Holocaust possible, would continue to pursue mankind as a whole. Those were words that came from someone who had experienced history and made a huge impression on me and who have kept my involvement in this subject alive ever since. The establishment in 1998 was an important milestone in the fight against impunity and for justice in the event of the worst violations of humanitarian law. In future, no political or military leader could be more reassured to get on his way with genocide, crimes against humanity, war crimes or the crime of aggression. It's already been recorded. The Hague was happy to host the ICC as City of Peace and Law and, with the full agreement of all parties here in the House of Representatives, the Netherlands has since, in accordance with our constitutional duty to promote the international legal order, to act as advocate, defender if you like, of this court. I very much hope that we will continue to do so. In fact, Dutch history goes back even further. 116 years ago, at the Hague peace conference of 1899, a ban was already agreed for the first time on bullets that suddenly increase in volume in the human body, the so-called dumdum bullets that we are deciding on today. But the history of the crime of aggression is also long. Already in 1928 it was described for the first time in international law. It is described in the UN Charter, it was applied in the Nuremberg and Tokyo tribunals, among others by the gentleman I just mentioned. The definition was confirmed by the UNGA in 1974. In the end, it was logical that it ended up in the Rome Statute. It was generally recognised that the crime of aggression is one of the most serious crimes of international importance. It was not possible to come up with a definition at the time, but wise if the parties to the treaty were, they took the time to find a way out of it. We know the process, the government has described it: discussion in the PrepCom, a special working group, consultation with the United States of America very substantially in this case, and finally in 2010 agreed at the review conference; adopted by consensus. All Member States agreed, indeed a great achievement of diplomacy and of international law!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-10.u37	In view of the broad support he has expressed, how does Mr Servaes assess the fact that only 24 of these 123 Member States have ratified?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-10.u38	In my view, this is not unusual in ratifying treaties. For example, as a parliament, we still have to ratify the treaty that gives people with disabilities all the rights, although the treaty is already quite old. As far as I'm concerned, it could be a little faster, but we'll see about that. So it's not unusual. It would be a good thing for me if the Netherlands, as the host and protector of the court, were to be among the first 30, so that this element would also be given jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-10.u39	We've already talked about responsibility. The VVD Group will assess it differently. Only 24 countries have ratified it. Mr Servaes has given his opinion on this, but what is his opinion on the fact that there are also countries with parties that say: listen, if it is up to us, we will withdraw from the International Criminal Court at all? This is said, for example, in South Africa.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-10.u40	I am aware that there is criticism of the criminal court. Mr Taverne has just described them very well. Mr Sjoerdsma mentioned a number of specific cases in which the discussion took place. However, I am not aware that this type of criticism, which has been expressed by a number of African countries in particular, is linked to the proposal we are discussing today. That criticism is much more about "at least" the perception that the court has a bias towards Africa. We can talk about whether that is right or not some other time. That is separate from what we are discussing here today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-10.u41	We're doing interruptions in two, Mr. Taverne. I call Mr Servaes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-10.u42	He can, of course, make another interruption in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-10.u43	I wouldn't provoke it, Mr Servaes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-10.u44	The importance of this unanimity is, of course, great. A very clear definition has therefore been chosen, with which everyone can get out of their way. A threshold clause has been introduced. Only an act of aggression which by its nature, seriousness and scale constitutes an unmistakable violation of the UN Charter falls within the jurisdiction of the Court. As I have just pointed out, a discussion on its scope, in so far as it can still take place, will not depart from a broad discussion that you can have on each of the three other crimes described in the Rome Statute. The role of the Security Council is indeed important here as an additional safety valve. I heard Mr Oskam say: yes, but if you don't talk about it in the Security Council for six months, then it could be that... my impression would be that the members of the Security Council apparently didn't find it so difficult that they couldn't even settle it in that six months. I therefore suspect that the government will respond positively to Mr Oskam's suggestion. He must agree with me that this is a testament to the fact that there are apparently no objections to the members of the Security Council. My party can wholeheartedly support what is going to happen here, because this is what the Member States and the contracting parties to the Treaty of Rome always intended to do. After all, it builds on the way in which crime aggression has been applied in the past, including by the tribunals after the Second World War. If we, as a parliament, were to object to this and take the core out of the Kampala protocols, my group believes that this would not only be extremely untimely, five years after the date and seventeen years after Rome, but would also be insufficiently founded. I think I just described that. However, I would also find it irresponsible. Our country has a special responsibility for this court. I would find it an embarrassment if the Netherlands were the right place, perhaps not the only one, but at least the first, and I suspect the only one, would be the one who would get in the way here. What would that mean for the successful campaign conducted by the city of The Hague under the leadership of its mayor to book itself as a city of peace and justice? What would it mean for the image of the Netherlands, with that beautiful article 90 in the Constitution? What would it mean if I said so for a moment before our Security Council candidacy, in which we like to stand up for our reputation in the field of the rule of law?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-10.u45	Do I now understand that Mr Servaes considers the reputation of The Hague and a possible temporary Security Council seat for the Netherlands more important than the sustainability of a description of a crime that we will be stuck with for decades?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-10.u46	Absolutely not. I've described why it's richly late to object now, you're really late, and why it's unsubstantiated. As far as I am concerned, there are no objections. In fact, I see it as an enrichment of the court that it can now finally rule on that fourth article, which had long been included in the Statute. I see that as a positive development. However, I am giving a warning. If, for whatever reason, we are going to stop doing so, then I am concerned about its effects. I think it's important to name it here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-10.u47	Mr Servaes regrets that the Netherlands would be the first to oppose this. Is it not conceivable that this is precisely the fulfillment of the special responsibility that the Netherlands has, namely to allow it to retain its authority in this way, so that the court can first get to do what it can already do better instead of getting something new on top of what is not going well yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-10.u48	I endorse the concerns expressed by Mr Taverne, but also by other colleagues, about the way in which the Court has functioned so far. Two convictions during that period, no adequate regulation for budget and staff, problems we have had to deal with in a number of cases. I totally agree that these are problems. I also agree with the questions that have been put to the cabinet, but I do not see a relationship between those concerns, which are all related to the current functioning, and the proper implementation of that crime aggression. We had already agreed on this long ago, it was done in an appropriate way and there is international consensus on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-10.u49	I am just chewing on Mr Servaes' comment on the safety valve. I don't have any experience with it. Mr Servaes has worked for the Foreign Office and has been a foreign spokesman for a long time, so he might or might not know. That rule of law is there. If the Security Council doesn't do anything for six months, the prosecutor can come in on his own. That rule is there for a reason. Can it in practice prevent the Security Council countries from thinking: we do not burn our hands on it, rather than veto it, but let it go a little bit, and that is why the prosecutor has the opportunity to intervene?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-10.u50	I'm not in "K."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-10.u51	I don't want to catch you. You may also pass the question on to the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-10.u52	As you have just asked the cabinet, I think it is important to hear the opinion of the cabinet. The Security Council usually meets several times a week. My experience is that, when large Member States have a right of veto, the P5 have problems with something, they make sure that these problems are expressed. Unfortunately, this summer we were able to experience in the most painful way ourselves that even under such circumstances one of the permanent members was prepared to use that veto. In a politically sensitive case for a specific country, for example the annexation of Crimea, you could have a discussion about whether that would be an act of aggression. I'm not a judge, and I don't want to be a judge. That's your field of expertise. If that discussion is being held from the court, I can imagine that a certain permanent member would use his veto. I think that's a reasonable assumption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-10.u53	I think it would be a good idea to pass that question on to the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-10.u54	I will conclude with a number of questions that have already been asked by colleagues. It's about capacity and how it works. What can the Netherlands do to further strengthen this? I particularly agree with Mr Sjoerdsma, who has said good things about this. A second point is the criticism that comes from Africa. I know that last year the Minister himself travelled to the African Union Summit to discuss the Convention with African Member States. Does he have the idea that there is now progress in this discussion and what has been achieved by his numerous contacts in Africa so far? The third point is the credibility of the court with regard to the absence of arrests of suspects. The Al-Bashir case in South Africa is, of course, the most imaginative one. Is that also the subject of discussion between the Contracting Parties? Finally, I would like to put the key question to the cabinet itself. If Mr Taverne's amendment is accepted by the Chamber, does the cabinet agree with me that the essence of the Kampala protocols, which have been negotiated for ten years, is actually being taken into account, and that the protocols are not really worth anything anymore? Can the cabinet describe in legal and political terms what consequences that has for the Netherlands as a host country and as a guardian of the court as far as I am concerned?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-10.u55	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Chamber for its extensive contribution in the first term. Today's agenda is the Kampala amendments to the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court. It is important to have this debate today. According to the conviction of the Dutch Government, the criminal court is an important part of the promotion of the international legal order, a promotion to which we are constitutionally bound. An essential element of the international legal order is compliance with international law and, with it, punishment when international crimes are committed. That is why the Netherlands is committed to combating impunity for serious international crimes. In the answer, I would like to make a few points. Of course, I will deal specifically with the questions. The opening and setting up of the ICC, which was supported by the entire Chamber, was accompanied by strong agreement on the inclusion of the offence of aggression in the statute. This is also included in the Rome Statute. You could say there was dormant jurisdiction over that point. There is a consensus that aggression as such is one of the most serious international crimes. That's determined by the Nuremberg and Tokyo tribunals. Aggression is directly contrary to international law. In answering the questions, I would like to point out that there is broad consensus among a large number of countries, even after formal and informal consultation of the great powers in the Security Council, on the act of aggression and on a careful, defined and precise description of it. It is a clear violation of nature but also of seriousness and scale on which there can be no reasonable difference of opinion. There are clear checks-and-balances in there. It has not been discussed for ten years: it is such a complicated problem. It is very good that, at that time, we were able to go into that process with the support of the entire Chamber and that the ratification process has now begun. As the Chamber knows, a final decision, after 1 January 2017, will depend on the parties to the treaty on the basis of ratification by 30 states. In order to get through the questions as quickly as possible, I will be as specific as possible about what the Chamber has asked. It is very important for the Netherlands to make progress on these amendments. This is important for the role of the Netherlands in the criminal court and internationally. We have very good arguments to put this to the Chamber. The Netherlands has always played an active role in achieving an effective implementation of the criminal court's jurisdiction over the crime of aggression. I'll fall right into the house with the door. The Rome Statute now contains a definition of the offence of aggression, in Article 8a, and the conditions under which jurisdiction over this crime can be exercised, in Articles 15a and 15b. It is important to emphasise that international recognition is made that the crime of aggression is one of the most serious international crimes. That's why it's in the Rome Statute. This was also part of the basis for an agreement on the Rome Statute. There is a reference to an important history, that of war criminals after the Second World War. The Nuremberg Tribunal sentenced 12 persons for crimes against peace and the Tokyo Tribunal convicted 23 suspects for an aggression war. The offence of aggression is directly contrary to the international legal order, which is based on the prohibition of the use of force against other states. The ban on the use of force against another state is the essence of the United Nations and a foundation of the UN Charter. When the International Criminal Court was set up, there was a great deal of agreement, and I would like to stress that tonight we are discussing the inclusion of this crime in the statute. However, it turned out that it was too short a day to reach agreement on how to proceed, but in 1998 this crime was already included in the Staff Regulations pending agreement on the definition and conditions of the exercise of dormant jurisdiction. The review conference in Kampala in 2010, supported by all, was the culmination of the negotiations on the crime aggression. Of course one can change one's mind. However, for the consistency of the Dutch position and the way in which we are negotiating, it is important that we have received great support from all the groups present in this House to address this very issue. Initially, there was division over the definition of the crime aggression. Was it supposed to be spacious or limited? There was also a discussion on the conditions under which jurisdiction could be exercised. It was precisely the questions that the Chamber asked. The Chamber asked questions about the role of the UN Security Council. Could only the UN Security Council establish that an act of aggression has been committed, or even the criminal court itself? The Chamber also asked questions about the position of states not party to the Rome Statute. Could they still fall under the jurisdiction of the court? Questions have been asked about the possibility of an opt-out declaration. Should it be possible? That is very important for the support I will come back to later. Finally, it has been asked whether the amendments will enter into force very soon or only after some time. There is therefore also a timing element which can provide clarification and clarification on a number of points raised by the Court. A balanced compromise was reached in Kampala, according to the conviction of the Dutch Government. This included the concerns and wishes of various states, including the P5. So they were involved. The jurisdiction of the criminal court is complete with that. We see this as an important step forward, contributing to the development of the international legal order. The possibility of exercising jurisdiction over the offence of aggression is also expected to have a preventive effect. I don't think a lot of people have mentioned that yet. I would then like to speak about the definition. Of course, that definition did not go ice over one night. It is not for nothing that all these states have reached consensus on this after a long period of negotiations. The definition consists of four parts. It is about planning, preparing, initiating or carrying out an act of aggression. It must be an unsub who is either military or political leader. That is someone who is in a position to exercise effective control over the military or political action of the state. It must be an act of aggression and the use of arms violence by a State against the sovereignty, territorial integrity or political independence of another State, or otherwise incompatible with the UN Charter. It is clearly a threshold. The act of aggression must by its nature, seriousness and scale constitute an undeniable violation of the UN Charter. So it's not about small beer, just to put it bluntly. These must be the most serious cases of violation of the ban on violence between states, as enshrined in the UN Charter. In order to be seen as an act of aggression, there must be very serious interstate violence, such as military invasion. In a number of cases, this is obvious, such as the invasion of Iraq in Kuwait in 1990, and the occupation or annexation of territories. I think there will be little difference of opinion. The way in which the definition is defined follows the remaining three offences under jurisdiction which comply with the requirements of the principle of legality. The statute now contains a very carefully defined and precise definition of the crime of aggression, based on the best we have: an authoritative UNVN definition of aggression, and the tribunals of Nuremberg and Tokyo. She was adopted in Kampala by consensus. I'd like to back that up. The requirement of legality is also met. No crime without law, I say to Mr. Taverne. At the same time, Kampala identified specific elements of the crime of aggression, as well as a detailed explanation of how the crime should be interpreted. This was done at the request of the United States. Some questions have also been asked about these understandings. Understandings give a more detailed interpretation of parts of the definition of the crime aggression. They provide the judges with more insight into the intention of the negotiators in relation to the crime of aggression. So these understandings are very valuable. It is clear that they are not legally binding. They're not part of the crime scene description itself. The Chamber is aware of the Vienna Treaty. Such understandings must be taken into account in the interpretation of the Convention or in the application of a provision. I would draw Mr Taverne's attention to Article 31 (3) of the Vienna Convention. As I said, this was not the most difficult obstacle at the review conference. Everyone agrees on that. It is a very sharp definition, which there is no difference of opinion. It has been discussed with everyone and based on the elements I mentioned. The most difficult issue is the conditions under which jurisdiction can be exercised by the court in relation to the offence of aggression, particularly in relation to the Security Council. Questions have rightly been asked about this. The P5 are indeed involved. I will come back to the impact of this renewal on the support base for the criminal court, and to the question whether it will be more difficult for countries that do not really want to become members. The five permanent members initially took the view that the court could in fact exercise jurisdiction over the crime only after the Security Council had established that there was an act of aggression. There was also a difference of opinion on the question of when effective exercise of jurisdiction can take place in the event of aggression. I think this has been resolved very well and effectively. In principle, the prosecutor is able to investigate aggression without prior observation by the Security Council that an act of aggression has been committed. As you know, there are a large number of checks-and-balances attached to this. The Security Council can refer a situation of aggression to the criminal court itself, and that is not insignificant. The Security Council, like the crimes that were already in it, is very much involved in that criminal court. It's not like you have the Security Council here and the criminal court there. We have seen a number of cases in which the Security Council refers to the criminal court. That is why the members of the Security Council were involved. They also have an interest in the way in which it is legally shaped. I therefore see no contradiction between legalisation on the one hand and a political solution of definitions on the other. I know that debate well, I say to Mr Oskam, because I myself worked in Mali and Côte d'Ivoire. In these two cases, the criminal court has actually been asked by African countries themselves to act. This applies in the case of Mali, which is not yet a member, but also in the case of Côte d'Ivoire. You can't say in general that this could work decisively on conflict resolution. On the contrary. In many cases, it has a reinforced role. That consideration will have to be made every time. I'll come back to those checks-and-balances. The Security Council may refer a situation of aggression itself to the criminal court once jurisdiction has been activated, i.e. in principle after 1 January 2017. The compromise reached in Kampala on this matter means that the prosecutor may prosecute the crime of aggression, if... And then there are three conditions. The first is that the Security Council has established that there is an act of aggression. The second is: if the Security Council has not determined whether there is an act of aggression within six months of the prosecutor's notification. In addition, the Pretrial Chamber of the Criminal Court is required to authorise the prosecution and the Security Council has not ordered that prosecution be suspended. The Security Council therefore has a greater role in relation to the crime of aggression, compared to the other crimes under the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court. That is important, because some spokesmen have said that things have suddenly become very different. No, that's not the case. In fact, the Security Council has been given a greater role than in situations already mentioned in the Statute, such as crimes against humanity and so on. This increased role is clearly the result of the Security Council's responsibility under the UN Charter. The current discussion is about abstaining from using the veto in the event of mass atrocities, mass atrocities. Mr Taverne's group is now in a position vis-à-vis the Dutch Government, arguing for the veto to be taken into account and for international law to be introduced. I have just received a proposal from Mr Ten Broeke to put the veto into perspective and to introduce elements relating to the Convention on Chemical Weapons or the commission of crimes against humanity. In the case of a Security Council paralyzed by a veto, it is important to ensure that this serious crime is prosecuted. So it is exactly the opposite of what many of you say. It is only when the Security Council is blocked that there is still an opportunity to prosecute, should the prosecutor so wish. This gives a number of countries which have so far moved in a court of law which they consider to be one-sided, the opportunity to find more support there. I am thinking here of a large number of African countries, which consider this issue to be particularly important. The suggestion that the Security Council should make its assessment exclusively is a truly passed station. Such an exclusive role for the Security Council was really not sufficiently supported in Kampala. As regards the effective exercise of jurisdiction over the offence of aggression, it was further agreed that the Contracting Parties should take a decision on the matter after 1 January 2017 and that the amendments should have entered into force in at least 30 States. That delay was a concession to countries that hesitated about the rapid entry into force of the aggression amendment. However, this delay gives both the criminal court and the parties to the convention to the criminal court the opportunity to make the necessary preparations for the entry into force of these amendments. You can think of criminalising the offence of aggression in the context of the principle of complementarity in national legislation. There are a number of points that may be in favour of ratification, in the light of the questions put. In the direction of Mr Taverne and Mr Sjoerdsma, I would firstly like to say that the principle of legality of 'no crime without a legal provision' is respected. I have referred once again to the very carefully defined and precise definition of the crime of aggression. Secondly, I would like to draw attention to the issue of responsiveness to protect, mentioned by a number of you. Are responsive to protect activities outside the description of the crime? The answer is yes. This follows from the definition of the offence of aggression, namely in Article 8a (1). Will support the amendment serve the Dutch interest to protect political and military leaders from criminal proceedings if, for example, they decide to use force for humanitarian reasons? Of course, it's not about protecting the Dutch automatically. That's not the plan. Of course, we don't hope for that. Of course, there is also the principle of complementarity, but of course that is not the objective. The Netherlands has confidence in the criminal court, in the Dutch jurisdiction and in the principle of complementarity. I assume you have all that, too. I think it is essential to say that today. Something else has been said about the understandings. In the direction of Mr Taverne, I really want to say that in understandings 6 and 7 it is expressed that an act of aggression is confined to the most serious and dangerous forms of unlawful use of force. This is an unmistakable violation. In the cabinet's view, this high threshold excludes cases of violence on which there can reasonably be a difference of opinion as to legality, which is not "unmistakable'. The understandings give a more detailed interpretation of parts of the definition of the crime of aggression and give the judge more insight into the intention of the negotiators. As I have just said, it also follows from the Vienna Treaty that understanding must be taken into account when interpreting the application of the provisions of a treaty. I hope that I have been able to deal with a number of concerns with Mr Taverne as well. I have been asked that major powers such as the US, Russia and China become parties to the criminal court by the entry into force of the amendments. I find that question difficult to answer. I don't think it matters much. As far as it makes a difference, it is my sincere view that it will bring this closer rather than further away. I'll explain this. As you know, the United States, Russia and China are not planning to become a treaty party at the moment. It is not possible to make an informed ruling on the consequences of the entry into force of the Kampala amendments. However, I would like to make it quite clear that precisely the Kampala amendments have created the possibility for potential contracting parties to make an opt-out declaration on the crime of aggression, so that they do not fall under this jurisdiction as a contracting party. That is why it is so important how we negotiated this. That is an important point. The only way in which the criminal court can have jurisdiction in that case is by referring a situation to the UN Security Council. That gives the members of the UN Security Council a new opportunity to even act. I'm gonna say right away that this is unprovokable. I believe that Mr Sjoerdsma and the SP Group have raised the important point that this does not undermine the support of the criminal court, on the contrary, because of the close consultation with a number of members of the UN Security Council, and not the first, I dare say that it does not matter very much. If it does matter, it is likely to increase the power of membership through the opt-out and through the UN Security Council referral.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-10.u56	From the Minister's words, I would point out that the level of support is unabated. Some countries may not have come any closer, but it is also not possible to say that membership has moved further away. The Minister said something about the way people look at it in Africa. In view of all these positive assessments, I wonder why only two African countries have ratified. Can the Minister explain that to me? Why have only 24 of the 123 Member States ratified? Listening to the minister, don't you expect one could have stood for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-10.u57	To be honest, I don't see that relationship. I don't understand that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-10.u58	I have raised a number of objections on behalf of my group. The Minister says that he clearly sees it less gloomy, that there is a lot of support and that this is the result of good negotiations, which everyone agrees with. However, only 24 countries have ratified it. I can't rhyme with those two things. Why is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-10.u59	We need to get the facts straight first. There are two phases. The first phase is the establishment of the Rome Statute. Everyone has agreed that the element "aggression" fits into it. So that consensus is there. In addition, there is consensus from all parties that this sharp definition is the best one, with the checks-and-balances we wanted. Then there is a ratification process. At present, 24 contracting parties have ratified the Kampala amendments on the crime of aggression. I can call you the whole list. Africa is not left behind. I'll say something about Africa in a moment. In fact, I think that the image is a little too one-sided, with all the criticism that is sometimes rightly made from Africa in the criminal court. The countries are all characterised by a large regional distribution. In addition to the Netherlands, dozens of countries are currently active in the ratification process. We're not the only country. Dozens of countries are working on this. Given these figures, it is really expected that the 30 necessary ratifications will be achieved before 1 January 2017. So I do not recognize the picture, quite the contrary, many countries are currently working on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-10.u60	Does the Minister have any idea which five or six countries we can add on 1 January? Apparently we are not the only country, but we are just one of the many countries that are extremely active and perhaps already on the verge of ratification. Does the Minister have any idea what group we are in?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-10.u61	That depends a little bit on you. If you help us a little later, we'll be in a group soon enough to get it done. There are many other countries. Frankly, I do not follow the ratification process in every country. I have had it checked and I have been told that it is going on in dozens of countries. We can give you further information on this. I don't have the exact list. I know what has now been ratified and that there is a variety of regional distributions. Maybe I can take this opportunity to say something about Africa and support for the criminal court. Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Servaes, everyone has actually talked about it. What's going on with the criminal court? Let me begin by saying that the trials before the criminal court currently concern all situations in African countries. However, the Criminal Court is currently investigating several non-African countries, such as Colombia, Afghanistan and Georgia. That's important. Yesterday, Ukraine also received acceptance of jurisdiction. So you can see the development of research into several countries. However, there is the impression that the criminal court is only focusing on Africa. That is the point of criticism of the Africans. They ask themselves: why do we always have to? That perception exists and they want to emphasise African leaders. I can see that more nuanced. Four African countries have themselves submitted the situation in their country to the criminal court. I just mentioned Côte d'Ivoire. I also know about the problem in Kenya. Of course, politics, law and immunity play a role everywhere. The Minister for Security and Justice will discuss immunity issues further in the near future. I would point out, however, that jurisdiction is being raised by African countries themselves, including in a country such as Uganda. Nor can it be denied that serious crimes have taken place in a number of African countries. The victims deserve justice. However, we share the view that it would be good for the imagery and the fight against impunity worldwide if the criminal court also took up situations in non-African countries. After all, in other countries of the world too, everything is wrong. The reality is also that the criminal court does not always have jurisdiction, such as in Syria, Iraq, Yemen and North Korea, to give some examples. You can't change that overnight. I would point out, however, that the Dutch Government is very active; Mr Servaes and Mr Sjoerdsma have spoken about this. Whether I have signed one letter or not, we are walking out of flames in front of the International Criminal Court. The Chamber should not be afraid that if our name is not under a letter, it is thought that something is going on with the Netherlands. There would be something going on if we were to lag behind and not participate in important ratifications in which everyone participates. The situation in South Africa has really been raised by the Netherlands in the European Union. The Dutch Government is very active in this. I really want to try to convince the Chamber that there is no passivity whatsoever. I am also prepared to discuss this further. We were aware of the initiative taken by Liechtenstein to publish the letter of support. It is precisely for the reason I have just mentioned that let us ensure that this aid comes from different regions, and not only from the Western countries, I thought it was important. I have no problem with the fact that 13 of the 16 signatory ministers come from Europe. That's really good. We could have done that, but the Chamber really should not think that this is a very big problem. The Netherlands supports the work of the Criminal Court I take Mr Sjoerdsma's appeal very seriously by raising this issue in bilateral contacts, by facilitating the resolution on the Criminal Court in the UNVN and by organising seminars to strengthen the support for and cooperation with the Criminal Court. That has just happened to Ukraine, before the ratification of the Rome Statute. Support for civil society is another example. I do agree that it's an expensive duty. It leads to significant costs and processes take a long time. That is the price of the fight against impunity in serious international crimes. There must be reform. A number of Members have said that and I agree with them. It concerns reform and streamlining of the Registry and increasing the investigative capacity of the Prosecutor, with the aim of improving quality and increasing the speed of processes. I've seen in Côte d'Ivoire how incredibly complicated it is. Mr Oskam has experience in this; he knows how complicated it is. That doesn't change the fact that it's expensive. But I don't want to write off the criminal court yet. Of course, there is now a problem of acceptance in Africa. I've just gone into the risks and opportunities of that. In any case, I do not think it is right to say that adding the point of aggression would undermine the basis of support. I would almost say the opposite. For the great powers, the chance that they will participate is greater than the chance that they will not participate, although they do not intend to do so now. The evidence is in the dark. Countries in Africa think it is important that an element such as aggression should now be introduced. We must not forget, apart from the role of the Security Council, that they are not even represented on the Security Council. They therefore consider it important that, if there is a non-traded Security Council, there are opportunities to address acts of aggression by a very precise definition of "I really have faith in the criminal court'. I would like to draw attention to a number of points that have been asked, which I think are correct. Mr Sjoerdsma and Mr Oskam have asked a question about Norway. I think they have a point. I'd be happy to take over that position today. During the Kampala Conference, Norway made a statement stating, inter alia, that Norway considers that the criminal court should give priority to genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes when exercising its jurisdiction. That was related to the limited capacity. I myself have a slightly different view of the fact that there would be no capacity from 2017 to try acts of aggression, but I would like to go along with Mr Sjoerdsma and Mr Oskam and indicate that, if this were a problem, we too would take over the Norwegian position on the priority position. The priority we want to address should be genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes. I say this in the light of the concerns of Chamber, of course, without prejudice to the independence of the criminal court and the prosecutor. Then I would say: you cannot do that, because the Dutch Government does not approve of that. However, I am prepared to make such a statement. I'm also willing to look at the money for the protection of witnesses and victims. The Netherlands is also very active in this area. I'll see if I have any precise information on that. If not, I will come back to this later in my speech. In any case, it is important that there should be more opportunities for the protection of witnesses. I want to be tough on that, too. The Netherlands already does that, but that has of course really played a role in Kenya. I would like to say that the Kenyan Government has dealt with this in a very delicate way. I would also like to point out that the Netherlands is already talking to a number of countries about this. If you want support for an international criminal court, of course you have two options. There are countries that say: we're not doing anything, because we don't think it's very useful right now, because it's happening a lot in Africa. There's another legitimate reason. Those are countries that say: why are we only being discussed? I think that is a real debate. That is why we have already spoken with Ghana, Rwanda and Kenya to see how we can ensure that the support for what is seen as a one-sided approach to the criminal court can be maintained, even though that can really be taken into account. The Dutch Government will therefore remain actively committed to this. The House as a whole must feel that these amendments are important. That has been negotiated for so long, so much negotiating energy has been invested, that has been discussed with the whole world, then consensus has been reached, and checks-and-balances. It is important that we get the support that was given to us in the past when we started these negotiations. So I would like to make that commitment because I think it is important. I still have a number of questions to answer that relate specifically to the legal aspects.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-10.u62	The Minister does admit a number of important things. Certainly Norway's statement is important to my group, because it also clearly highlights what priority should be given. I fully agree with the Minister that we cannot dictate to the judges what to do, but these understandings, of course, give a bit of a picture of what the authors of the amendment have in mind. Such an explanation also provides a more detailed explanation. The Minister also said that better protection of witnesses and, in some cases, of victims is needed. That's very important. I would actually ask him to consider whether it is possible to raise the Dutch contribution, but perhaps also the contributions of other contracting parties, to the victim's and whitenesses fund. Things like that of Kenyatta turned out to be indeed an Achilles heel, a very important Achilles heel. I would like to avoid that in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-10.u63	I know that we are making an important contribution to this. I'd be happy to see if that can be increased. I cannot say that I have a limited budget, but I understand the wish expressed by Mr Sjoerdsma. I also know that we are active in this area. Let me look at the exact amounts and how proportional or disproportionate they are as far as the Dutch Government is concerned. It's absolutely essential. Witness protection is essential in all discussions on international courts. Otherwise people will be intimidated; of course we have seen this. It's also cost-effective to do that, you might say. Otherwise, you've invested a lot, but you can't actually make a case. I think this is indeed an important point. As regards the seizure of funds, I have just said that it is not expected that the criminal court will be able to exercise jurisdiction very quickly. Even after 2017, there will not be very many treaty parties. Also, there are not yet immediate concrete situations. We have the Norwegian declaration, which I too consider important. Does not the assessment of political decision-making in the field of the use of violence belong par excellence in political fora? That was a question from Mr Taverne. No, I don't think so; not par excellence. In any case, the UN Security Council can refer a situation in which aggression has been committed to the criminal court. I think that's where the relationship between politics and law lies. Other crimes, which can already be presented by the prosecutor to the criminal court, such as genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes, will also be the use of violence which may be politically highly sensitive. Politics certainly doesn't just play a role in the crime of aggression. It also applies to existing crimes. This amendment is not specific to that. In that sense, there can be no reason to oppose these amendments. Is the great role assigned to the UN Security Council in the prosecution and prosecution of aggression crimes, and that of trial and prosecution, not a confirmation of that assumption? The great role of the UN Security Council is inspired by the nature of the crime, namely unlawful interstate use of violence, and by the powers of the UN Security Council on the basis of the UN Charter. The UN Security Council itself can judge that an act of aggression has been committed, but that is only part of the description of the crime. The legal assessment of whether the crime is aggression lies with the criminal court, which may have another opinion on whether an act of aggression has been committed. In the case of a UN Security Council paralyzed by a veto, it is important to ensure that the serious crime is prosecuted. That's what Mr. Oskam was talking about. The suggestion that the UN Security Council's exclusive assessment should take place is a truly passed station. There was no support for such an exclusive role for the Security Council. Nor do I say to your own group, in all honesty, to Mr Oskam. I have here a report from a meeting last year, in which your group has just said: make sure that these Kampala amendments are adopted. Nothing has changed in that situation since last year. That is also the way in which the government operated internationally on the basis of the position of the CDA Group. That is not to say that the thinking stands still. Let there be no misunderstanding about that, but the Dutch Government must, of course, be able to operate internationally with some coherence. I will come back to a number of cases. I would find it very dangerous to fall into all that casuism. You mentioned the case of Kosovo. It is true that the Dutch Government used the legitimacy of a number of United Nations resolutions. Syria is not a member of the criminal court. There are all complex cases, of which I find it difficult and risky to fall into this case, all the more so since a generally accepted narrowly defined threshold of aggression has been defined, with all kinds of checks-and-balances. That has not actually come up for discussion either. I also do not see internationally in the discussion that that is precisely the point why people are critical of the Kampala-arguments. I said something about the relationship between politics and the judiciary. Are there objective judicial standards that can be used in the assessment of acts of aggression? Yes. I refer once again to the definition of aggression in Article 8a: elements of crime aggression, understandings and all applicable provisions of the Rome Statute. I have already said something about timing and support, but I would like to focus on witness protection. I do not see any precise figures here, but I tell you that the witness protection programmes and bilateral agreements of parties to the criminal court on the resettlement of threatened witnesses are indispensable here. In recent years, the Netherlands, together with the criminal court, have organised seminars aimed at promoting cooperation with the criminal court, specifically on topics such as witness protection and resettlement of witnesses. The latter is also a problem. They're gonna testify, but where are they gonna go next? We have a number of countries in Central Africa which the Chamber knows is not easy. So we will also discuss this politically, separately from the money, where it belongs, namely with the next Assembly of State Parties. But that is independent of the ratification of Kampala. I think I have dealt with some of the concerns of the Chamber. I have already said that there is a procedure that clearly shows the checks and balances in the role of the Security Council, the opt-out, the definition, the great consensus and the importance of the International Criminal Court against what is seen as the most powerful crime in the world, namely crime aggression. There has been no ice in one night, and I really want to ask the Chamber to continue to support me in this. I say this also in the light of a number of questions that have been put to me at the very end. In view of the negotiating position of the Netherlands and the great support that I and all my predecessors from all your groups have received, I hope to be able to negotiate further in this way. The position of the Netherlands is indeed at issue in that light, should there suddenly be a break on the line on the basis of assumptions that I do not think are correct. The House has every right to do so, let there be no misunderstanding about it, but I hope I have been able to give you arguments this evening to obtain the support of this Chamber for the ratification of these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-10.u64	Mr. Chairman. It is a pleasure to have an exchange of views with the members of your Chamber at this time on an interesting subject which seems to be of interest to the moods, because it is also an important subject. A number of questions have been asked, in particular, by Mr Van Nispen and Mr Oskam, on specific points regarding the implementation of the law in the Netherlands, which in turn is my responsibility. The first question was put by Mr Van Nispen. Why are we waiting for the entry into force of the Dutch criminalisation of aggression until the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court is established? The answer to that is as follows. Crimes in the International Crimes Act are strongly rooted in international law. This means that they are always linked to treaties, international customary law or international case law. That connection makes it, in my opinion, unwelcome, as we have written in the explanatory statement, that the Dutch court would have jurisdiction, while there is no basis for that competence in international law. That would be a break with tradition. The so-called principle of complementarity is also based on the competence of the international and national levels. In drawing the limits of criminal liability, the Dutch court will have to focus on international law. He also needs international law in order to be able to implement that Dutch penalty provision. Authentic explanation of the crime of aggression will be particularly of an international level, such as the UN Security Council and, ultimately, the International Criminal Court. The political dimension and the connection with international peace and security mean that the Dutch judge will not often be in the position that a trial of the crime is possible and also appropriate. All this makes it undesirable that the Dutch court should have jurisdiction over the concept of aggression and thereby prejudice the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court. Mr Oskam has asked me a number of practical questions about how it will ultimately work out in practice. One of his questions was whether former executives have immunity from Dutch jurisdiction. The relationship between criminalisation of international crimes and immunities is always on the move in international law. The International Crimes Act, as we have in the Netherlands, recognises the immunity of Heads of State or Government, and of, as I say, in the direction of my colleague here, the Foreign Ministers. For former executives and, in my view, for security and justice ministers, this immunity no longer applies in principle. They can therefore in principle also be prosecuted for the offence of aggression or for any of the other crimes which are then included in the Dutch law. Mr Oskam asked whether members of the Dutch cabinet could be prosecuted for the offence of aggression. Yeah, in theory, it could. If the Netherlands were to commit an act of aggression which in no way supports international agreements, international resolutions or NATO or European agreements, the members of the cabinet who have decided on such a self-righteous act of aggression on behalf of the Dutch State could also be prosecuted for the offence of aggression. However, I do not need to explain this to Mr Oskam as a former prosecutor and former judge if all the offences are met. Given the way in which the Netherlands operates internationally, I consider that the chances of doing so are very low. But that's more on my neighbor's property. Mr Oskam also asked whether it was true that the Dutch jurisdiction over aggression is broader than that of the criminal court. The jurisdiction over international crimes in the International Crimes Act is indeed universal, in so far as it does not matter in which country an international crime has been committed. However, the International Crimes Act has an important limitation: there is only jurisdiction in the Netherlands if the defendant is also in the Netherlands. Of course, there is no such restriction in the criminal court. That is the essence of the criminal court, that everyone in the world can be prosecuted at the criminal court. In that light, I do not think that the jurisdiction of the Dutch court is wider. It only looks at those who are in the Netherlands. I have listened carefully to the exchange of views between various spokesmen, particularly on the issue of aggression. I was thinking very carefully about Mr Van Nispen's question and Mr Oskam's comment in that direction, and I was wondering whether there could be an alternative to the situation that we now seem to be moving towards. There is an amendment on the part of the VVD Group in which it would like to abstain from approving and, consequently, automatically from carrying out the criminalisation of aggression. Mr Koenders has already indicated that this would in some sense be a break in line with what has been done so far and that it could also have some international implications, particularly given that we are the host country of the International Criminal Court. That does not change, as I say quite clearly, the Court's complete freedom to have views on this point and to put forward good arguments for it. I see an alternative is conceivable. That alternative would be to do it like this. If Mr Taverne, the Member of your Chamber, were prepared to withdraw the amendment to that law of approval prior to the vote, he would give up the position that aggression would not become an offence to be prosecuted. However, this could be in return for the following. The cabinet has already stated in the explanatory statement that the provisions on aggression will only enter into force if the International Criminal Court has jurisdiction to do so. We would be able to inform your Chamber of the intention to take the Royal Decree with which that should be done. This would mean that the Chamber would have the opportunity to exchange views with the Cabinet on this aspect, i.e. the introduction of the criminalisation of aggression. Then the Chamber could, in a simple motion, state whether it would like to do so. I realise that this will create a state-law novel or at least something which I do not think has happened very often. It's highly unusual. Because it is so unusual, and because it did not occur to me until this evening in response to Mr Van Nispen's remark, he wondered why this is not already being introduced in the Netherlands. That doesn't just apply to a trade-off with the Chamber. I am robbing the Chamber with this; I realize that and I find that annoying too. However, it also applies to the cabinet. I believe that we should also discuss this issue in the Cabinet. Mr President, I am now putting it very carefully, because you and the members of your Chamber are on the agenda. However, I am saying that it might be useful to look at this thought for a moment. I say this particularly to Mr Taverne, the author of the amendment. Perhaps it would be appropriate to suspend the examination of the two legislative proposals in order to consider them. In this way, we can look at the full scope and all the effects of my thinking, after which we could reopen the debate. Then we can find out if this is a line of thought that everyone says: well, that's an idea. But perhaps we will find out precisely that there are things I do not see now, which the members of the Chamber say, or perhaps the cabinet itself says: this may not be very practical and too much a novelty for our constitutional law. The latter could be the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-10.u65	Thank you. The ball's in the room. The Minister for Security and Justice therefore requests that the debate be suspended at the moment so that we can discuss his proposal further. This also raises the question of what we are going to do with the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-10.u66	First of all, I appreciate the intellectual and legal flexibility in the spirit of the Minister of Security and Justice. In the Minister's proposal now, therefore, the Court would only decide on the application in the Netherlands of the validity of the offence of aggression if the International Criminal Court had enough countries ratify it before entry into force in at least the ratifying countries. The counter is now at 24. In 30 countries, it gets the power of law, just to sum it up. Only when the time has come could the Chamber decide by means of a motion that it does not think it would be a good idea for it to do so. Would that mean that the Netherlands is already part of the six countries that need to ratify in order for the International Criminal Court to be able to implement this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-10.u67	That is a typical point that I may not have given enough thought to. I believe that this is indeed the case, depending on whether or not the Chamber votes on it. In my mind, the Chamber could then consider simply voting on the legislative proposal on adoption and implementation, with the certainty that further discussions could eventually be held on its introduction in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-10.u68	In addition to the Minister's proposal, I would suggest that the cabinet send a letter to the Chamber. It should then set out what this should look like in practice. The second term of the Chamber and the Cabinet should then be postponed until we have received that letter from the Cabinet. Then we can continue with this. In any case, that gives me the opportunity to reconsider and consult my group on this matter. My colleagues may appreciate that opportunity, too. I would like to agree that, for example, we will receive this letter in the course of next week or the following week. At least we have to set a deadline for this, because otherwise it will run a little away. If we can agree that the Chamber will receive a letter on this next week, then we can keep the second deadline. That way we keep the hallway in a bit. That is ultimately also in the interests of the reputation of the Netherlands, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-10.u69	I see that many Members want to respond to this, but first I want the Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-10.u70	I have just discussed this with Minister Koenders. We have no objection to it and can ensure that the Chamber receives the letter referred to by Mr Taverne in the course of next week. I think it is right and good to do so, also because the idea of this possibility has only been expressed here for 45 minutes. Nor can we see the full scope. It's good to put that on paper. I have an additional thought on the proposal, which is actually more of an order proposal by Mr Taverne. I would then like to take a look at you, Mr President, that we suspend for a moment in the first term of the Chamber, so that I have the opportunity to explain in plenary the proposal contained in the letter and then move on to the second term of office and second term cabinet. That seems useful to me, because then we can immediately explain the ins and outs we have encountered in the first period.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-10.u71	That's no objection. I'll take a look at the colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-10.u72	Nor does the SP object to this proposal for any postponement. I think it is important that this is done carefully. I'm curious about the letter. If the letter can be there next week, that's fine. However, I do not want to apply a strict deadline of a week. If it's possible, it's okay, if it's two weeks, it's not a problem either. We've been working on it for so many months. We need to do it carefully now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-10.u73	I can also express my appreciation for the legal flexibility of this Minister, but also for the way in which the VVD Group reacts to this. It is an amendment, therefore, which appreciates the fact that it gives this flexibility. Indeed, quality is more important than speed. I would like to have explicitly mentioned in the letter whether any delay in ratification on the Dutch side will not be at the expense of participation in the way in which the criminal court continues, when that number of 30 countries is reached. I believe that there will be a new consultation between the Contracting Parties when it enters into force. I would like the assurance that the Netherlands can always sit at the table. Basically. If that aspect can be described in the letter, then my group agrees with this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-10.u74	Mr Oskam, could you also put your question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs right away? You trusted me that you still had it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-10.u75	I agree with the last proposal by the Minister for Security and Justice with the addition of Mr Servaes. I am also saying this on behalf of Mr Sjoerdsma, who unfortunately had to leave because of domestic circumstances. He asked me to agree to this proposal. Then my question to the Foreign Minister. I'm very late, but I was thinking about the disappointment he expressed about the CDA's actions. We have been lenient in our written criticisms. Then we started working with each other and figured out what situations you might encounter in which things could go wrong. I regret that the Minister says: I cannot or do not want to go into this; I find it difficult. Perhaps he can say in general terms where the pitfalls are in front of the criminal court and in front of the Netherlands if we ratify this. The points of profit have been mentioned by Mr Servaes: it is internationally good and it creates obligations if you say yes in Kampala. Where there are risks to the criminal court I have given examples and for the Netherlands it might be good if the Foreign Minister pays a little more attention to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-10.u76	Maybe I can be very short. All due respect to the CDA Group, of course the mind is not standing still. I merely pointed out that until very recently in the written rounds we had between government and parliament there was great, deep support on this point. However, there is every right to change that. You mentioned a number of pitfalls. They are important to your group. I would like to propose that they be discussed in greater detail in the letter. I think this is the best method, including for the considerations in your group. Then you have it very precisely.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-10.u77	A very good proposal. It's about care. Let's take a good look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-10.u78	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-10.u79	I note that there is a unanimous vote in favour of the cabinet's order proposal. This means that this debate will be resumed at a later date with the continuation of the first term of office. So we are suspending the debate now. Thank you.
