ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-7.u1	There have been six speakers. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Recourt of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. It is nice that the minister was able to land in the Netherlands from far away, because that was difficult, out of his mind. Together with the Secretary of State, he goes to Luxembourg to express the Dutch position on a number of important issues. I would like to make a brief comment on two issues. I wanted to table a motion on PNR, the travel data, because I wanted Parliament's attorney to prepare the possibility of a procedure, the so-called subsidiarity procedure. I want an opinion from the Chamber on that. In the meantime, with some help, I have been able to identify two letters from the Minister of Foreign Affairs to the Second and First Chambers from 2010. This shows that the procedure is as follows: through the procedure meeting of V and J, to the Bureau, to a plenary agreement. In short, I would like to refer this proposal to the procedural meeting shortly, so that it does not have to be put by motion. However, the position, which is at least shared by the majority of the Chamber, is well known to the Secretary of State or to the Minister, namely that we think such a PNR is fine, but not with a more far-reaching interpretation than we have done in the Netherlands. The other point that has received a great deal of attention is the European Public Prosecutor's Office. The Minister wrote two letters about this. My group agrees with that. I've been considering drawing up a motion that confirms that, but that's actually bullshit. I wish the Minister every success. The first sixteen articles seem to be very much in the direction of the Netherlands. In the following articles of a possible agreement there is a bit more tension. I'll give him plenty of room to negotiate on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-7.u3	Mr. Chairman. I was shocked when I saw you, but I see it worked out. We held a general discussion yesterday in preparation for the JHA Council next week. Normally, the directors know that there is no doubt that this is always very constructive consultation. It was now, by the way, but this should not necessarily lead to what is called a continuing general consultation in this Chamber. In this one case, I found reason to do so, and other colleagues thought so too. This leads me to table two motions on behalf of my group. The first motion is tabled, but it concerns an issue for which my colleague, Mr Tellegen, has asked for particular attention on an earlier occasion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas preachers who preach hatred, provoke violence or even spread jihadist propaganda constitute a danger to the public order and national security of the Netherlands and are therefore not welcome in the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas mayors in the Netherlands are regularly confronted with the arrival of hate preachers and there is no clear approach to how to deal with the issue of hate preachers in the Netherlands to date;]] [[whereas, although the grounds for refusal under the Schengen Visa Code are clear, they are not always applied uniformly by all Schengen countries in visa applications by hate preachers from outside the EU;]] [[whereas many hate preachers who report to the Netherlands are in possession of an EU passport and are therefore more difficult to exclude from the Netherlands;]] [[believes that the government should be able to ban hate preachers from the Netherlands both from outside and from within the EU;]] [[invites the Government, at the JHA Council of 15 and 16 June a.s., to address the problem of hate preachers and to announce work on identifying names of hate preachers, both from outside and from within the EU, and to inform the Chamber of the results thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the current Latvian Presidency intends to take decisions on the first sixteen articles of the draft regulation on the establishment of a European Public Prosecutor's Office at the forthcoming European Council;]] [[Whereas the Court has previously submitted a retention of treatment, which would ultimately enable it to give a final opinion on the desirability of a European Public Prosecutor's Office;]] [[Whereas the Court has previously set out clear principles and failed to achieve them through its rapporteur;]] [[noting that an agreement on the first sixteen articles may prelude on a final weighing-up, or at least give rise to expectations;]] [[calls on the Government not to agree to separate articles of draft regulation before the House of Representatives has been able to give a final opinion on the complete proposal and to inform the European Parliament on this matter,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Oosten, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Oskam and Mr Segers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32317-301]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Oosten and Mr Segers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32317-302]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-7.u4	Mr. Chairman. The Chamber has for some time been very critical of the European Public Prosecutor's Office (EOM), but now it is back on the agenda and seems to be coming about. The Minister is going to talk about this, but we believe that in the fight against fraud, a number of other steps can also be taken in addition to the EOM. We ask the Minister to pay attention to this during or around the JHA Council. This does not necessarily have to be done in the JHA Council itself; it can, of course, also be done around it. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas negotiations on the establishment of a European Public Prosecutor's Office (EM) have reached an advanced stage;]] [[Whereas this negotiation is without prejudice to the possibility that other forms of anti-fraud may also exist and it is important to investigate them seriously;]] [[Whereas this could include strengthening the European Anti-Fraud Office, the use of administrative law by Member States in the fight against fraud, the establishment of agreements between the Commission and Member States on the arrest of offences affecting financial interests in the EU, and the possible withdrawal of subsidies in the event of fraud;]] [[invites the Government to actively examine the above possibilities in consultation with other Member States and to report to the Court on the results, together with the negotiations on the EPPO,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Oskam. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32317-303]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-7.u5	The second point that was raised yesterday in the AO is the tracking of travel movements, the so-called PNR Directive. The Secretary of State has explained that the Netherlands is not at the stage of discussing this at the moment, but we would like to have an active attitude from the government on this point, also because there is tension with regard to privacy with regard to keeping that travel data. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Government is reluctant to adopt an EU-PNR Directive;]] [[Whereas the establishment of this Directive is essential for the understanding of travel movements of (potential) terrorists;]] [[Whereas active participation and positive expression of the PNR dossier can promote the return of Dutch views on PNR to the final outcome of the negotiations;]] [[Whereas the next JHA Council discusses the progress of the PNR dossier;]] [[calls on the Government to give a favourable opinion at the next JHA Council on the early adoption of an EU-PNR Directive,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Oskam. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32317-304]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-7.u6	Mr. Chairman. Yesterday, unfortunately, the Minister was prevented from attending the AA on the JHA Council. So he missed an interesting discussion about his letter of 9 June. We could have had a nice semantic discussion on this, because his letter says that he will not object to the intention of the Latvian Presidency, but that this does not mean that he will agree to that text. That seems to us to be a little bit out of line. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that at the forthcoming JHA Council of 15 and 16 June 2015 the government is discussing the proposal to establish a European Public Prosecutor's Office to deal with fraud involving European money;]] [[whereas the establishment of a European Public Prosecutor's Office has been endorsed by 25 Member States and will therefore be implemented;]] [[whereas negotiations on the establishment of a European Public Prosecutor's Office are at a stage where the Netherlands can still exercise influence, provided that a majority of the House of Representatives considers active participation in the negotiations desirable;]] [[calls on the Government to take an active part in the negotiations on the establishment of a European Public Prosecutor's Office;]] [[calls on the Government also not to raise any objections to the Latvian Presidency's intention that the first part of the present text be chosen as the starting point for further discussion on other parts of the draft regulation, with explicit reservation that it does not yet constitute an agreement to the text or to the whole proposal;]] [[calls on the Government not to take irreversible steps in this matter or to take positions before the Court has been fully informed at the appropriate time and has had sufficient opportunity to exchange views with the person responsible for the matter,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Berndsen-Jansen and Mr Recourt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32317-305]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-7.u7	Mr. Chairman. It will not surprise anyone: my group cannot at all accept the last letter from the Minister of 9 June. We certainly cannot accept that the Minister writes that there will be no objection to the first sixteen articles. It is simply a fact that the train is moving towards the European Public Prosecutor's Office. Even if you say you don't mind, if you stay on that train, you're getting further and further away from home. As far as my group is concerned, 'further away from home' means 'in the direction of a European Public Prosecutor's Office'. My group does not want this whole institution, not now, in the future, and not in any form whatsoever. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that despite the yellow card, intensive negotiations are still ongoing between Member States on the establishment of a European Public Prosecutor's Office;]] [[Whereas the outcome of a European Public Prosecutor's Office to be set up does not comply with the position paper of the rapporteur, European Public Prosecutor's Office, who, on behalf of the two Chambers of the States General, is monitoring the negotiation process of the EU proposal to establish a European Public Prosecutor's Office;]] [[having noted that the Government has indicated that it intends to take an active position in the negotiation process and that it wishes to continue to participate in the negotiation process, but that the question of whether or not participation in the European Public Prosecutor's Office is not raised at this stage;]] [[calls on the Government not to agree (in the end) to the creation or establishment of a European Public Prosecutor's Office,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Helder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32317-306]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-7.u8	Mr. Chairman. The government is now going to negotiate what the European Public Prosecutor's Office will look like. The SP does not consider this to be a good attitude, because the need for a European Public Prosecutor's Office has not been demonstrated. The question of whether there should be a European Public Prosecutor's Office has not been answered. That question has never been on the table seriously. I think you should examine the alternatives first, and that's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas negotiations on the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor's Office have reached an advanced stage;]] [[noting that the creation of a European Public Prosecutor's Office leads to the transfer of powers to the European Union;]] [[considers that the need to establish a European Public Prosecutor's Office has not been demonstrated to effectively combat fraud involving European money and that this is therefore contrary to the principle of subsidiarity;]] [[calls on the Government, in the JHA Council, not to agree to the creation of the European Public Prosecutor's Office and to continue to draw attention to the alternatives, by pressing for improved effective cooperation between Member States' authorities in the fight against fraud, strengthening the European Anti-Fraud Office OLAF and reducing the flow of subsidies if they have been fraudulent in the past and informing the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Van Nispen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32317-307]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-7.u9	Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much for the opportunity to be present this time to discuss these important issues with the Chamber. I was absent from the general meeting. It suits me to apologize humbly for that. I have made every effort to be present at the AO on time, but the circumstances of the airline have not allowed me to be present here in the Chamber in good time. I apologize to the Chamber for that. I understand, however, that there has been a very constructive thought, in which the Secretary of State took part on behalf of our department. I also know that he appreciated that thought formation very much. Three issues have actually been raised by the members of the Chamber. The first is the question of hate preachers. In general terms, I would like to point out that the idea here is whether we can also work together in Europe on this hate speech. Can we somehow ensure that, together with other European countries, there is a consistent European policy on this issue? We expect that all other countries will face similar problems. In all these countries, as in the Netherlands, it will not be appreciated if people come to the country to produce texts that promote discrimination, that highlight inequality between people, that affect the position of women or that encourage hatred or violence. It will be clear that the government is committed to achieving, as far as possible, a consistent policy, in cooperation with all the other countries of Europe. I shall now come to the motion that has been tabled on this subject. The second issue is the European Public Prosecutor's Office. This will be discussed at the JHA Council. It is in line with expectations that the proposal will be transferred by the Latvian Presidency to the Luxembourg Presidency. The Luxembourg Presidency will try to come up with a final proposal by the end of this year. I sent two letters to the Chamber about this. In that I have made it very clear that, as far as we are concerned, the position paper of the House of Representatives is leading. We have therefore actively brought this document to the attention of all interested parties in Europe. That's what the Chamber asked us to do. This has been done both through the route used by the Chamber itself along all our representations in the Member States, and by actively handing the position paper itself to our interlocutors. In particular, my predecessor has done so. It is quite clear that on behalf of the government I will not agree to Articles 1 to 16 because they do not currently comply with the position paper as laid down. That's what I wrote in my letter. In general terms, I would also like to touch on the proposal on EU PNR. There is now a great deal of agreement on this proposal in Europe. It seems that the European Parliament is also in favour of this. This is also reflected in the views expressed recently. Following the motions that have been tabled, I am very curious to see what the Court's position is on this matter. I remember that the Chamber was very critical about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-7.u10	The minister says that the rapporteur's position paper is leading the cabinet. I'd like to receive a further explanation. What exactly does the Minister mean by that term "leading"? If the principles set out in the same position paper are not met, will the ultimate consequence be that, as far as the Minister is concerned, the European Public Prosecutor's Office cannot be dealt with? Is that how I'm supposed to understand it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-7.u11	I see my assignment as follows. The government has always let the position paper be the starting point for the views of the Chamber and the government. That is why the position paper has also been presented on behalf of the government and on behalf of the Chamber. That means that I see it as my job to ensure that the position paper of the Chamber is approached as closely as possible in the negotiations. Preferably, this is entirely the case, but at least the points in the position paper are the starting points of the negotiations. At the end of the journey, I will present the proposal for the European Public Prosecutor's Office to the Chamber. I will look into whether this is still very much the question of what I am doing and with what advice. Then it is up to the Second and First Chambers to give an opinion on that proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-7.u12	How actively does the Minister then communicate with the Commissioner within the European Council about the debate we are having in Parliament on the establishment of the EPPO and the principles set out in the rapporteur's report?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-7.u13	Recently I asked my officials to take the position paper actively as part of the negotiations. That's what I wrote to the Chamber. That was not the case so far because, according to the thought formation of my predecessor, the primate was mainly in the Lower House itself. I said that if we really want to get close to the end result that the Chamber wants, we must also work actively on it. That's what we did. That's as active as it is. I spoke to Commissioner Jourová about this last week. I would remind you of the points that the Chamber sees as a very important stumbling block in order to agree to a proposal that will eventually come to the table here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-7.u14	Let me take a look at the Minister's PNR position. I understand if he means very formally that he does not know what the Chamber thinks, because Europe's final result has not yet been discussed in the Chamber. But if he means that he doesn't know how the Chamber stands about the Dutch discussion, I don't understand, because the Chamber is not critical about the purpose and use, but about the privacy breach. Do I understand correctly that he means the formal piece that comes from Europe? A motion can no longer be tabled, but otherwise the Minister will have to be informed of the Dutch position very quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-7.u15	I know that the Chamber is very critical of a number of parts of the proposal. What is more, there is now a so-called trialogue. I shall inform Mr Oskam of that in the course of the debate on the motion. The Netherlands is not participating in this, because the President of the Council is negotiating on behalf of the Netherlands in the trialogue, in this case by the Latvian Presidency. That is why we are not actively participating in these negotiations. We do not have that position either, but it is still very much a question of where this proposal is going. As soon as that is clarified, I shall refer it back to the Chamber in the usual way. Then I hope to be able to discuss that in another AO.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-7.u16	Can I ask you another way? The previous minister felt a participant in the consultation with hands tied behind his back. This Minister was rapporteur and has moved a few steps, I would like to note, because the proposal has also changed a little. Does this mean that this Minister is going to be more free in the discussion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-7.u17	What I'm going to do is perform the assignment I've accepted in the form of the Chamber's position paper. I am well aware that not all the parties who supported it to that extent. The objections and the yellow card procedure were supported by the majority of the Chamber, but the alternative proposal in the first position paper was not supported by the vast majority of the Chamber but by a majority. I remember that the PVV, D66 and SP groups were not in favour of this. The D66 Group was in favour of the original proposal. As I have just heard very clearly from the PVV, it is against any proposal. Mr Van Nispen says that we are still opposed to the proposal, because it has not been demonstrated that it is useful and necessary. That's how I listened to him. That's everyone's right. What I am doing is with the position paper in hand, and thanks to the negotiations that we have entered into and are now actively engaged in, the proposal is trying to get as close as possible to what the Chamber considers important for the final assessment of a possible proposal from Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-7.u18	So the Minister is going to negotiate in the places where that's possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-7.u19	That is exactly what the letter to the Chamber says: we are negotiating to ensure that the final proposal is as close as possible to what this Chamber has given to my predecessor in the form of a position paper. Mr Van Oosten and others have in part No. 301 called on the government, at the JHA Council on 15 and 16 June next, to raise the problem of hate preachers and to announce work on identifying names of hate preachers, both from outside and from within the EU and the Chamber, to inform them of their results. I am delighted to report that I have already taken a number of steps myself, this motion pre-sensing. I have organised that at the time of the JHA Council, at a meeting which will also be held with the countries most concerned, this issue will be raised, because I think it is important that we continue to work together at European level on this issue. Whether there will be an exchange of names is not yet something I can promise, because there is a privacy aspect. As European countries, you are not just going to spread names of alleged hate preachers. But if I can understand the motion in such a way that the signatories of this motion appreciate the fact that I have taken and continue to take this action in order to ensure at European level that there is clarity as to who can and cannot enter Europe, and I will look into the possibility, at some point, of establishing a form of a list in accordance with all kinds of laws and regulations, then the motion supports policy. So I'll leave the verdict to the Chamber. If the proposers feel that there is still a need to exchange names at the JHA Council, then I cannot undertake to do so. I see Mr van Oosten nodding so that I leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber, because I think it is basically support of the policy that the Minister of SZW and I have proposed to us. In the motion by Mr Van Oosten and Mr Segers on item No. 302 is requested by the government not to agree to separate articles of draft regulation before the House of Representatives has been able to give a final opinion on the complete proposal and to actively inform the European Parliament on this matter. We are actively informing the European gremia in the negotiations. We enter the points we've been given in the position paper, into the negotiations. In addition, I wrote to the Chamber that we will submit the outcome of the negotiations to the Lower House and the Upper House. I think that Mr Van Oosten means that both chambers will have to judge the final proposal. If I may interpret the motion in this way, she is a supporter of policy, so I would like to leave it to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-7.u20	But I would like to touch on the point made by the Minister just now, just before he got to this motion. He said: my commitment will be to "get as close to the starting points as possible, mentioned in the position paper." What I would like, and that is what I mean by the last passage in the motion, is that the minister in Riga, Luxembourg or wherever these talks are taking place, now or later, does not make it a secret that this position paper and the specific principles, in particular the exclusive transfer of powers, are twistedly complicated and difficult, also with the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-7.u21	Then I can reassure Mr Van Oosten that he can understand that underneath, because that is exactly the message I have been sending to date within Europe, both in the discussions with the ministers and with the Commission. I would like to explain that a majority of the House voted against the original proposal and that a number of conditions have been laid down, which it is quite possible that the House of Representatives will ultimately abstain from approving the proposal if the proposal does not meet the basic principles.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-7.u22	For my understanding, you will be sitting there on Monday in Riga or in Luxembourg and then the President of the Council will ask how you look at the first sixteen articles. Then you say: "Listen, I can only give a judgment on this when my Parliament has been able to give the final judgment. So I cannot agree to that. And you know why I can't agree to it? Because my Parliament is fucking struggling with the possible exclusive transfer of powers." Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-7.u23	I am not saying to Mr Van Oosten that I will take over the literal phrase. I regard it as my prerogative to choose my own words for that, as it also fits in the relationship between government and parliament. However, I hear the clear line that Mr Van Oosten is setting, and that is exactly the line of my letter. As I have just announced, I will not agree with Articles 1 to 16 because I believe that there should be a final judgement on the part of Parliament, that is, the Second and First Chambers, on the basis of the final outcome of the negotiations. However, I do see it as my task, through negotiation, to approach as closely as possible what the Chamber has instructed us to do. Then it is up to the Chamber to see whether it is close enough or whether it does not want it or wants it to be different. I come to the Oskam motion in part No. 303. It calls on the government to actively examine the other options mentioned in the motion at the same time as the negotiations on the European Public Prosecutor's Office. These include the strengthening of OLAF, the use of administrative law, the taking up of PIF offences in the framework of the agreements between the Commission and the Member States, and the withdrawal of subsidies in the event of fraud. I think I recognize the texts that Mr Oskam has recorded here as coming from the Chamber's position paper. It is clear that there is no European support for some of the points raised by Mr Oskam. The question then is whether Mr Oskam means by his motion that I will nevertheless, as the Don Quixote of Europe, take those positions. The Chamber has already done so, and the government has done so by handing over the position paper to the Member States concerned. However, I can tell Mr Oskam that I have not forgotten these points, because I know the position paper quite well myself and read it carefully at the time. It's a little crazy to hand over the position paper again. That is what Mr Oskam is actually asking: will you hand over that whole position paper again? I did, so in that context I would say that this motion is a little mustard after the meal. Then I should also say that I betrayed her.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-7.u24	We would, of course, like to be proud of our minister in Europe, because he is doing well there. I also understand that it is very sensitive to discuss this in the JHA Council itself, but it could be around that. The EOM wasn't actually pruned at first, but now we're in a very different phase. It's good to talk to, but around the EOM and with the tools we have, there are many more possibilities. What I would like, and what I would like with this motion, is for the Minister to discuss this, on the left or on the right, there once again with his fellow ministers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-7.u25	Of course, that's obvious. Indeed, the debate in Europe raises the question of what happens to OLAF when a European Public Prosecutor's Office is set up. And if a number of Member States do not consider the European Public Prosecutor's Office desirable, can they still fall back on OLAF's activities? Those are serious points, which I would like to draw attention to in the context of my responsibility. Therefore, if this motion is to be read in such a way that we should not forget the points mentioned in the position paper, and I should also point them out on occasion and on occasion, that goes without saying. Then the motion supports policy and the judgment on it can be left to the Chamber. I'm getting to the motion on part No. 304. That is Mr Oskam's first motion on the PNR directive. In fact, that motion states that we must already give our opinion on this directive. However, the directive is still under negotiation. I cannot comment on a directive whose content I do not know. I am not involved in the negotiations either, because the trialogue is taking place without the Netherlands being involved. Mr Oskam knows that without a doubt. It is a negotiation between the European Parliament, the Commission and the Council. It is best that I ask Mr Oskam to withdraw this motion and wait until there is either a final outcome to the negotiations or I can tell the Chamber in a letter what the actual results of the negotiations are. I've briefed the Chamber on progress. I also informed her that the European Parliament has, to a certain extent, taken up this proposal. In the meantime, the vast majority of Member States are in favour of a directive. However, there is not yet a final outcome to the negotiations. If Mr Oskam does not withdraw or maintain the motion, I must dissuade her, because I cannot do anything with it. In the motion in part No. Mrs Berndsen asked the government not to object to the Latvian Presidency's intention to choose the first part of the present text as its starting point and to make a reservation that it did not in any way support the text or the whole proposal. Furthermore, the government is asked not to take irreversible steps or to take positions before the Chamber has been able to discuss them. It is very interesting that the person responsible should be involved. As long as the former national airline allows me to be present at the next meeting, I will be happy to discuss this with Mrs Berndsen. This motion is in fact a reflection of what is stated in the letter to the Chamber. I therefore see her as a support for policy. That is why I leave the judgment to the Chamber. I now come to the motion on part No. 306 by Mrs Helder. I know the position of the PVV Group on the European Public Prosecutor's Office. There is no misunderstanding about that in the government. However, Mrs Helder will understand that I must discourage this motion, given that negotiations are taking place, partly on the instructions of a majority of the Chamber. I do appreciate the fact that Mrs Helder is so clearly holding on to her group's position and that she wishes to share it with us every time. I must advise against the motion, because it could not lead to any result at this stage. In the motion in part No. Mr Nispen's 307 statement is in a sense the same as Mrs Berndsen's motion. The government is invited not to agree to the creation of the European Public Prosecutor's Office and to highlight the alternatives. This is in line with Mr Oskam's motion. I've already promised to do this. I also said I wouldn't agree. The story about OLAF is also reflected in this motion, as well as the request to inform the Court of Justice about it. I wonder what I will do with this motion, because there is nothing wrong with it. However, it is almost a copy of the position paper. I have already told Mr Oskam that I do not think it would be good to have another assignment from the Chamber leading to a re-release of the position paper. In substance, I agree with Mr Van Nispen that it is up to him to assess whether the European Public Prosecutor's Office is necessary or not. I'd like to leave this judgment to him. All in all, I think it is purely that I should detach Mr Van Nispen's motion after I dissuade Mr Oskam's motion. Mr Van Nispen will probably be able to find sufficient content in other motions to put forward his point of view; perhaps he can support those motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-7.u26	I'm a little dizzy. The motion is of course by Mr Van Nispen, but I am also critical and I listen very carefully to what Mr Van Nispen and the Minister say. The minister says he doesn't really see anything wrong with it. Without prejudice to the opinion of this motion and the position paper of the Chamber and of the rapporteur of the Chamber, may I assume that the Minister will look very actively at this other way of combating fraud both during the Council and afterwards? I am thinking of strengthening OLAF and also of withdrawing subsidies in those countries where fraud has been detected. It is very relevant to establish that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-7.u27	Of course. I have already said this to Mr Oskam; for the same reason I have rejected his motion. I'm not going to hand over the position paper again, because that's literally what both motions say. This does not alter our view that these elements are of course important, not for this JHA Council but for the policies and positions of the government. That is how I am doing, and Mr Van Oosten can rest assured that I have been doing this since I was in office, with the same enthusiasm as the rapporteur who had the Chamber in her midst before.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-7.u28	Yes, but I would not like to see that at some point there can be a hierarchy between the commitment to other means of combating fraud and the negotiations to achieve that position paper on the European Public Prosecutor's Office. I'm a little afraid those other ways of fighting fraud can snow under. I'd like to avoid that. That is why this question to the Minister is relevant to the voting opinion I will give to my group. Can I trust that the Minister is fully committed to the active fight against fraud involving EU funds? We are talking about the European Public Prosecutor's Office, of which I have set the limits, but it can also be done in a different way. I would also like it to be fully brought to the attention of the members of the European Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-7.u29	Yeah, but it's a long time ago. The other Member States of the European Council have already expressed their views on this matter. Those points have not been included in the negotiations, because there is no basis for them. Then I can do the same thing as the good man in Rome. What's his name again? Mr Cato, who said at the end of his speech that Carthage should be destroyed, but that is not real. I will continue to do so, because I believe that this should be done, but at the same time a majority of Member States have said that they do not see the point. The Chamber will have to take that into account in the final outcome of the negotiations. We would point out to the Chamber that our position is clear, but that we are negotiating with 28 Member States.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-7.u30	It is good that the Minister says that he will continue to highlight these alternatives. That's a good thing. It's also good that he didn't read anything wrong in my motion. I felt the same way myself, so we agree on that. To correct something, the Minister said he dissuaded the Oskam motion, but I do not think that is the case. Mr Oskam explained this. The Minister then said that he did not have to discourage the motion in that case. I just wanted to make that right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-7.u31	Now I'm gonna have to take a look at my papers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-7.u32	We do have it on record that it has been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-7.u33	I gave an explanation and then the Minister said that the motion was policy support.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-7.u34	We are going to ask again, because Mr Oskam also believes that he has received a positive opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-7.u35	Let's see, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-7.u36	Judgment Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-7.u37	If I may read Mr Van Nispen's motion as well as Mr Oskam's motion, these are very similar. The same applies to Mrs Berndsen's motion. Perhaps it is an idea if these MPs put these motions together, to indicate which points in the position paper they believe should not be forgotten. I have no problem with that, because I myself would find it very annoying if those points were forgotten. Nor does the government have any intention of forgetting those points.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-7.u38	So in all three motions, you're saying, judge Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-7.u39	Yeah, I think that's best, with the explanation I've given.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-7.u40	Thank you. We are going to vote today on the motions that have been tabled.
