ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u1	I would like to welcome all those present in the Chamber, in particular the Minister for Security and Justice. Eleven speakers have spoken for this debate. We have agreed a six-minute speaking time per group. I propose that we allow up to three interruptions in the first term of the Chamber, i.e. between ourselves. I think that this debate will concentrate very much on questions to the Minister. I will be the first to give the floor to the applicant for this debate, Mrs Helder of the PVV Group. Oh, I see Mr. Oskam at the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. I have a point of order. Last Tuesday, Mrs Helder joined the scheme. She asked for speaking time to be extended. Mr Segers then asked the Minister for the Office of the Public Prosecutor that the Minister had been sent for Question Time. However, we did not get that. I saw that Mr Segers made a request for the scheme yesterday, but it was withdrawn. I therefore ask the Minister where the message is. If it's not there or not, I want to know why it's not coming. Otherwise, I'd like to have it for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u3	It is not customary for me to give the Minister the floor on a point of order. He heard the request. I will not pass on the request by means of the stenogram of this part of the sitting, because that seems to me to be a bit exaggerated. We'll see at the beginning of the second term... sorry, I didn't remember it properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u4	I'd like to have it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u5	I get that, as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u6	So then for the second term. I assume you mean that the Minister will answer that in his speech in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u7	It's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u8	Or that the Minister sends it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u9	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u10	It's one of two.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u11	Exactly. Mrs Helder, thank you for your patience. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u12	Mr. Chairman. Pim Fortuyn asked for government security, but he didn't get it, despite that being all reason. We'll never know for sure if he wouldn't have been killed, but that's very plausible. We know that his killer, Volkert van der Graaf, did get security. How crazy do you want it? Pim Fortuyn's next of kin will watch this whole circus with horror. I can't blame them. In a broadcast of Brandpunt on September 20th, Volkert van der Graaf was shown, who, for a hidden camera, drew his middle finger to the Dutch people by smilingly saying that together with his lawyer, he staged the photo published in De Telegraaf, that he "lives" in Apeldoorn so that he would receive a higher welfare allowance than if he lived with his child and partner in Harderwijk and that he did not want to look for work because he could no longer sue for free. The hard-working, tax-paying citizen will have looked at this with great anger. The same citizen will also wonder whether this criminal is going to be locked up. As far as PVV is concerned, the answer is yes. He deliberately violated the restraining order against the media. As far as my group is concerned, the consent given by the Public Prosecutor's Office is not worth anything. It is clear from the Minister's reply that the Minister at the time did not know about this action. In this very sensitive case, that is at least the way forward. If the photo moment is not a violation of the media ban, I ask the Minister if he thinks the following is a violation. On 28 September last, John van den Heuvel reported on TV that he learned from a very reliable source that part of the interview with Volkert van der Graaf was previously included in the broadcast of Brandpunt by a friend of Van der Graaf. These images were then offered by them to various media. The independent approach of various media is indeed a violation of the media ban. Does the Minister agree with the PVV? If so, is he going to take action towards the Public Prosecutor's Office to get Van der Graaf back behind bars? If not, then that shows all the more that you should not be with this minister for security and justice either. Will the Minister ensure that, if a condition for conditional release is violated, the remainder of the sentence is automatically enforced? In other words, violation of a condition means going back to prison. I come to the other part of this extremely painful dossier for the Minister. There is no doubt that during Question Time last Tuesday the Minister informed the Chamber incompletely. The Minister also acknowledges this and says he regrets the way things are going. The minister literally says that he "summer and with a limited focus" was informed orally that about the conditional release of a photograph had been discussed and that he did not realize the nature and extent of these conversations. But this is about Volkert van der Graaf's file, the man about whom Prime Minister Rutte said in election time that it was unthinkable for him that he would get probationary leave and that, if he did, that would mean the end of the Minister of Security and Justice's career. It is about the man who, last year, MP Van der Steur said that it was a great shock to his group that he would be released on parole. And then when you're on the buttons yourself, you say: I'm being briefed and with limited focus. Then there is the question: is the Minister already politically tired of life? Let me list a number of other points in the letter. On 18 December 2013 there will be consultations on the leave of Volkert van der Graaf. Both directors and all relevant organisations are present. An agreement is being made on setting up a high-level steering committee, as this is important "the directors attached great importance to timely and complete information." Taking the picture is discussed with the organizations and all parts of the ministry. That picture wasn't meant for the mantelpiece, it was meant for publication. The purpose of this publication was to assess the security risk that Van der Graaf might face, because this is also important "in view of the potential social unrest and security risks and the real risk involved," the minister's predecessor did not want to take any risk. The official steering committee arrived and the photo was taken and published. However, it was not the then minister who took both decisions. In fact, he wasn't even aware of it. He was only aware of the option of publishing a photo. The nine-page letter does not show who took these two decisions. In fact, the Minister concludes with the announcement that "a public prosecutor's staff, probation and NCTV" were aware of the fact that a photograph was taken. Employees informed each other, not the administration, and so the minister could not be informed. As far as my group is concerned, the Minister will not get away with this. The suggestion is made that decisions were taken at the employee level, at a low level, which the summit of the organisations concerned did not know about. This is totally unbelievable. Those decisions have been taken at management level.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... It wasn't a club employee who had to take care of everything in the end, was it? A high-level board of directors came together no less than eight times. Even if it had been decided at staff level, the official summit should have been informed instead of sleeping. In business, you're off the hook for less. I come to a conclusion with a list of questions. Who took or has taken the decisions to make and publish a photo? Why weren't the leaders at the time at least informed? Who is held responsible for this? In other words, who should or should be in the Ministry for this malpractice? Why is a blundering NCTV being spared? Why isn't the Minister acting decisively? He was the one who had to run the broom through the ministry. A minister who, after this shock, only concludes that information should be provided better and who addressed the public summit and the public prosecutor's summit, is unable to lead a ministry and ensure that this does not happen again in the future. And that while this minister is responsible for security in this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u13	Mr. Chairman. I'd better drop the door in the house right away. The CDA wonders whether the situation at the Ministry of Security and Justice has not deteriorated since the departure of Minister Opstelten and the arrival of Minister Van der Steur. I'd like to get a response from the Minister. The fact that communication in the department and the justice services is not good is an understatement. Where an upward line has been expected since the arrival of the new governors, we have to note that where the previous minister was aware of the consultation on the photo moment, this minister was not informed about this, at least not until the dispatch of the focal point. The minister's predecessor was informed by his officials of the fact that five of his own bodies were consulting on a possible deliberate violation of one of the conditions of Volkert van der G's probationary leave. I quote from the reply: "The Minister at the time confirms the view from the investigation that he was informed about the option of publishing a photo prior to the date of conditional release." This minister was sworn in on 20 March 2015, so he was informed for the first time six months after he was appointed as minister of the fact that as many as five government agencies under his responsibility, including his own ministry, had actively consulted on how to deal with Pim Fortuyn's killer. He was only informed after the broadcast of the focal point, according to the documents. The CDA Group finds that impossible. How does the Minister judge this himself? How did he organize his transfer? Was the Minister so familiar with him as a Member of Parliament himself not keen to know the seam of the stocking in sensitive political matters such as this? How does he handle this on other files? How does he assure himself of knowing what he needs to know? And how can Parliament trust that he will inform the Chamber correctly if he is standing here? What are we to think of Stijn Franken informing the Public Prosecutor? He said if you don't tell him, I'll tell him. Wasn't that a signal to ask the authorities that the Minister should have sent to the Chamber with correct information? Didn't the minister smoke trouble? Shouldn't he have acted differently in Question Time? That question is relevant because the Minister has not asked us for it, at least we have not asked us for it before the question fire... Question Time sent us a letter with incomplete information. By the way, it's been a questionfire. How did he come to do that? One more example. The Minister writes that within one day he could not determine whether the directors had been informed about the consultation on the photo. We've already talked about it here. We had to speed it up. This can't be happening, can it? When you're Minister of Security and Justice, don't you just punch your fist on the table? The civil servants who are sitting there in the benches should run and come up with the right information within 24 hours? The CDA is very curious if this topic was discussed in the ministerial staff on the Monday after the broadcast of Brandpoint Reporter. If not, why not? Wasn't it considered important enough? The Minister could count on ten fingers that the subject would be in Question Time. Then why wait until Tuesday, just before Question Time? Interesting in the answer is also that the Minister states: at my request, the Public Prosecutor has sent me a notice of office. What was the request and when was it made? Did the Minister himself ask the State to report only on 16 and 17 June? I would like an answer to that, and also to the question whether, apart from the message of office, no one in his ministry informed the Minister between the dispatch of Brand Point and last Tuesday himself about the consultation that preceded the photo. Did the Minister not achieve any other documents and was he not otherwise informed orally or in writing about the situation during that period? No paperwork on the letter? No official documents besides the post? Those are my questions. The problem is deeper than the Minister alone. It would be silly to point our arrows at him alone. I'll mention the facts. There is a steering committee at the Ministry that has been in consultation since 18 December 2013 and has met no less than eight times. This club of senior officials, the lecture, does not pass all the information on to the responsible directors. They were also not informed of the final publication of the photo on 17 June. During the first six months of his term of office, the current minister is not informed by his own officials, nor by the prosecution, of the fact that five departments for which he is responsible have held active consultations. The CDA Group is interested in the way in which the Minister has assessed this aspect of a lack of understanding, or perhaps unwillingness. What about the understanding and concrete arrangements with the President of the College of Attorney General? The previous Secretary of State and Minister were surprised by the photo in De Telegraaf on 17 June 2014, we hear. They were not informed of this. In the timeline, there is a month of silence after this date. Action will only be taken again if the focal point asks questions on 21 July. Can the Minister explain this? Did the directors not immediately ask the steering committee for clarification? Isn't that what you'd expect if they were actually as surprised as they say they were? Is it true that the National Coordinator on Counterterrorism and Security and the Security Service differed about the usefulness of the photo? Does the Minister share the view that it would be bizarre that, as a final manager, he is not aware of a difference of opinion between his own public services in such a case? On 21 July, Brandpunt asked questions to Reclassing Nederland. Why did the parole board choose to give false and misleading information to journalists, which gave the impression during the broadcast that Van der G. had broken the media ban on his own accord? Are these answers aligned with the Ministry and, if no, what does this say about the way of communicating between probation and the Ministry? So there aren't just problems at the Ministry. The official leadership of the State and of the probation and the National Coordinator on Terrorism and Security have not been informed by their own employees about the fact that a photograph was taken, the Minister states. That is truly unprecedented. Is the Minister prepared to have these organisations thoroughly vetted in addition to his own ministry in relation to communication processes and, above all, malfunctions, and to inform the Chamber about this? The Minister said at his press conference that he spoke to his officials about this, but more needs to be done. This is a bit of a rag for bleeding for the outside world, because there really needs to be more happening at this ministry. The chairman now says to me: time is up. Mr President, I should like to finish this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u14	Yeah, one sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u15	No, I can't. Then I'll save it for the second term. But it's really only very short, just a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u16	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u17	How about half a minute? Fifteen seconds?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u18	Thank you very much, Mr Oskam. Mrs Berndsen has another question. Maybe you can put the last piece in the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u19	Mr Oskam sketches an image of a ministry in which communication is not good and where there is chaos, to put it mildly. On Monday evening I heard Mr Oskam reply on the radio that he actually agrees. Does Mr Oskam and D66 believe that this ministry should simply be divided into a Ministry of Justice and that the Security section should return to the mother department if, for example, there is a new cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u20	I can do with the answer 'no', but I will explain that. I was in The Hague Lobby. I explained there that I am very concerned about what has been going on in the Justice Department lately. The question is, would it be better if those departments just went to Homeland? As far as we are concerned, that is not the solution. My solution is to put things in order. That's what I asked the Minister. If that happens, it'll just stay with the Department of Security and Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u21	Mr Oskam's approach is different from that of Monday evening. I regret that, because this House is gradually beginning to sign off on a majority for the restoration of the Home Affairs Security section. It is a pity that Mr Oskam does not repeat his position here on Monday evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u22	I'm not changing my point of view. I said that this would be a possibility, but that my preference is to put things in order. That's what I've been asking for. If that does not work, we will have to look at another good solution. I don't think moving the police department from the Ministry of Security and Justice to the Ministry of the Interior, but with the same people, is the solution. Something must be done there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u23	That is a nice little bridge to my question to colleague Oskam. I heard him in his speech asking whether the Minister is prepared to examine his ministry thoroughly. I assume the Minister will promise this. This is just like a dance situation. Is Mr Oskam satisfied with that? Doesn't he think that people should just leave because somehow they've been screwed up?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u24	It is clear that a lot of things are not going well. We have asked questions about this, which the Minister still has to answer. I'm not going to anticipate that. I'm not here to kill people. I'm not in charge of that either. The Minister is responsible for his ministry, together with his secretary-general who has just taken office. I'd like to know what the minister's gonna do. I want to know that in concrete terms, so not as it says in the letter. Then I'll make up my mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u25	I'm not here to kill people either. I'm here as the Minister's inspector. The fact is that the Minister has not been fully informed, so the Minister has not been able to fully inform the Chamber. It's just mistakes that have been made. It is then necessary to draw conclusions. My question to Mr Oskam is therefore whether he draws those conclusions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u26	I already answered that question. Then you can ask the same question again on a detour, but I'm waiting for the Minister's answers. That's what I want to look at. Then I want to make up my mind. Then I'll tell you what I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u27	Madam President. Again, it's wrong at the Ministry of Security and Justice. The Oosting Committee has hardly begun investigating the case of Cees H's receipt. We've barely been able to get ahold of the fatal communications blunders within the Ministry in the Bart case of you. Now there is another problem, and that at a ministry that is already almost succumbing to the burden of reorganising the police, we have heard the news this morning, and under the consequences of cuts in justice and the Public Prosecutor's Office. I would like to answer three questions in this debate. The first question is: how could things go so wrong? Everyone talked to everyone, information answered questions from Focal Point and meanwhile this minister knew nothing. How is it possible that Secretary of State Teeven and Minister Opstelten have different memories of exactly the same case? My second question is what this Minister knew about the photo deal during Question Time last week. We know by now that the Chamber has been misinformed, but did the Minister also know last week that it was incorrect? My third question: is there any prospect of change and improvement in the Ministry? Is this minister in a position to lead that? Last week, during Question Time, the Minister said that the photo deal with Volkert van der G. was known to the Public Prosecutor one day before the photograph was taken. In reality, the Public Prosecutor's Office had known about it for months and was very closely involved, as were Reclassing The Netherlands, the Guards and Security Service, the National Counter-Terrorism Coordinator and Security, various departments of the Ministry and the Information Directorate. The previous rulers were briefed on it. Pretty much everyone knew about it, except for this minister and so the Chamber. How the hell is that possible? Are there really only errors of assessment? Is it really conceivable that all these services, all these officials, did not realize that the Van der G case might be sensitive? Asking the question is answering him. The painful letter we received from the Minister shows that the Ministry officials felt very well that the conditional release of Van der G. was a sensitive issue. That is precisely why everyone talked to everyone and the rulers were briefed five times about that process. How credible is it that one briefed ruler, Opstelten, can remember that the photo deal was also discussed and that the other briefed ruler, Bitches, can't remember anything? Wasn't there anything on the Van der G case in the minister's transfer file? Then there's my second question. What did the Minister know when he answered oral questions from the Chamber last week? Last week, the Minister didn't tell us the full story about the photo deal that was made with Van der G. and his lawyer. In his letter, he more or less blames the Public Prosecutor: the notice failed. An important question is how can this be done? At the same time, it seems that the public prosecutor has restored it just before Question Time. However, the Minister says that the notice was not supplemented at the time. The Minister actually says: they told me there was more to it, but they didn't type it out and that's why I didn't tell the Chamber. That is perhaps the most serious error of assessment that has been made in this case. Can the Minister tell us exactly what he heard orally from the Public Prosecutor's Office prior to Question Time, which was different from what he then told the Chamber and why there is a difference? Finally, my third question. How else could it be? How can it be better? How is this minister going to lead that? The Minister writes in his letter that he has made it clear that it is no longer possible to do so. Hasn't that been said much earlier and much more often? What gives us reason to believe that internal and external information is really going to be improved? What would help here is that there is not only a cultural change in the area of Security and Justice, but also in the VVD. In this case, we have harvested what has been sown in recent years. Since Rutte I, security precedes justice, also literally. Repression and toughness seem to be more important than law and the rule of law. Safety has been put in the window, safety is on the signs, shiny glossies, while in the shop there is hard work on justice, on upholding the rule of law. It was the list leader of the VVD who called it unthinkable that Van der G. would go on probation. It was the previous Secretary of State of the VVD who suggested several times that he wanted and could stop that probationary leave. It was the VVD group that supported him in this, while in the meantime the same probationary leave was being prepared for the ministry. That is an unsustainable and undesirable schizophrenia. I will praise the day that the Ministry of Justice is just gonna be called the Ministry of Justice again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u28	If Mr Segers has so much criticism of the Ministry of Security and Justice, particularly towards the VVD Group, why has his group supported the budget all these years?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u29	It was a distant predecessor, Mr Rouvoet, who put his finger on this when the Ministry of Security and Justice changed its name. Justice must precede security. Justice and the rule of law must precede security. If you make a choice in the naming and make security the driving principle, then you will indeed reap what we are reaping now. Soon they put their finger on this. We have tabled motions together with D66 to reverse this, to bring the police back to the Home Office, to make it the Ministry of Justice again. Mr Van Oosten cannot say that we have not said this before. It is a very consistent line, which we have repeated on occasion. It has to be repeated on this matter too, because here, pregnantly, what you then harvest comes to light.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u30	These are very firm words, but why have you always supported that budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u31	We supported the budget because we want to work on the rule of law, because we want to work on security, but then subordinate to that rule of law, as part of that rule of law. Why is this such an important point? If politicians make the suggestion that you can train or stop the conditional release, then you disappoint more people than you do when you stand right in front of that rule of law and say: we have rules and they apply to everyone, even to someone who has committed a terrible act, even to the murderer of Pim Fortuyn. That would have been stronger than if you just tambourize on safety and create suggestions that you can't deliver. When this minister took office, I wrote an article in the NRC with colleague Van Nispen and former colleague Schouw: Minister, stand before the rule of law again. I'd like to repeat that cry of hearts today. The rule of law must no longer be shunned, but must be proudly defended, including by the VVD, also by this minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u32	Mr. Chairman. The minister was warned. One of the most sensitive cases, that of Volkert van der G., the murderer of politician Pim Fortuyn, is a matter in which politically great words have been used. It was the Prime Minister, the leader of his own party, who said in 2012: no probationary leave for Van der G., otherwise that will be the end of the Minister of Justice. It was his party mate and then Secretary of State Teeven who bit himself to block Van der G's leave. Minister Van der Steur was there, in the front row as VVD spokesperson Justice. This new minister knew how sensitive the Volkert van der G case is and this minister knows how sensitive the information is to the Chamber. After all, he owes his job to the mistakes of his predecessor. How then is it that this minister did not immediately observe all due care and was not fully informed when the picture of Van der G. appeared in the news last week? The Minister says: I have been briefed orally and with limited focus. What does he mean by short and limited focus? I thought he got the signal from the D.A. that there was more information. The Minister says: I did not realize the nature and extent of the discussions about the photo. It is more than regrettable that a minister in such a politically sensitive matter is unaware of the value of information. The Minister speaks of errors of assessment and points out all sides: the high-level official working group, the NCTV, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the staff of the services concerned, but the fact remains that last week the correct and complete information needed by the Minister was simply available. The entire top of his ministry, his predecessor, Minister Opstelten, the D.A., the NCTV, the police, the probation, the Justice Department: they all knew about the photo plan. The photo was in the paper last year. Then the rulers also knew that the photo had been taken and published. Is the Minister now saying that his predecessors didn't ask questions about the photo at any time after that? The Minister repeatedly states that the directors did not take the photo decision. Does the Minister think that the decision to frame the photo should have been taken by the Minister? The Minister goes through the dust and that is right, because for the second time in a short time this minister appears to be too quick to reach his verdict: first about the MH17 pathologist and now in the Volkert van der G case. For D66 today's debate is not about whether Volkert van der G. fulfils the conditions of the release. That's on probation and the D.A.'s office. For D66, this debate is about whether the Minister is sufficiently in control of his own ministry. This minister, together with his secretary of state, has been sent to the department as "the firm demolition." They would put security and justice in order in the ruins of five years of VVD, restore power and curb dark forces and cross-border officials. What happened to the broom that the minister got his hands on when he stepped in? Instead of clean ship, we see again too much action and incident on incident. This is detrimental to confidence in Security and Justice and remarkable for the VVD, who has been claiming that security is a top priority for five years. Another incident this minister of V and J can't afford. The official summit has been addressed and the Secretary-General has to turn an improvement plan out of his high hat, but what will the Minister himself do to get a grip on his ministry again? Can the Minister guarantee that with this letter all the facts have been put on the table and that we will not be here again next week? Can the Chamber trust that the minister responsible for our security will be in full control of his ministry and of all the information that leaves the ministry under his responsibility? The minister experiences in the flesh which monstrum created the cabinet at V and J. D66 has been opposed from the outset to the political choice to organise the Ministry of Security and Justice out of proportion. It does not benefit the administrative direction, the judicial power and the functioning of our rule of law. It is high time to review the administrative sustainability of Security and Justice. I urge the Minister to give this task to himself and to his Secretary-General.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u33	I give the floor to Mr Bontes. He has three minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u34	Mr. Chairman. Volkert van der Graaf is a bastard, a cowardly murderer, who should of course not have been for 12 years but for life. This man, who also parasites the taxpayer, must go back to prison as soon as possible. It hurts that the discussion about the violation of the media ban by the blundering of the Ministry of Security and Justice was completely in the background. Minister Van der Steur went to the Ministry of Security and Justice to clean up debris, but he also gets the Ministry, where the culture is badly spoiled, completely out of control. The Department of Security and Justice is rotten. After the ticketing affair, the failed reorganisation of the police, the rattling budget and the failure surrounding the murder of Els Borst, the Volkert van der Graaf issue is the most serious. Almost all of his top officials knew about this photo deal. His predecessor had knowledge of it. But the minister himself suggested that he was not aware and informed the Chamber incomplete and incorrect. Crucial information was not shared by the official summit. We must break the arrogance of the fourth power. We need to clean up the place as soon as possible. Why doesn't the Minister let heads roll? My group proposes that a parliamentary inquiry be carried out into the functioning of the official summit of the Ministry and the Public Prosecutor. Not only officials, but also the minister himself failed hopelessly. During Question Time, for example, he had knowledge of the preliminary consultation on the photo and the contact between the public prosecutor and the lawyer. However, he chose to throw the Chamber on the wrong foot. Does the Minister apologize for this? The Dutch state ordered Pim Fortuyn's killer to be protected, by the service established in connection with this murder. Van der Graaf got the security that Fortuyn didn't get. It's an unprecedented disgrace. What a country! Why is Pim Fortuyn's killer so coddled by the Justice Department? What's going on? The state must protect society, not killers. Why? We therefore call on the Minister to stop any form of Volkert van der Graaf security immediately and never to re-establish it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u35	Mr Segers, before I give you the floor for an interruption, I should like to make a comment to the Acts on the terms of force that we use here in Parliament. The Constitution allows it, but as President, I do not want it to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u36	Mr Bontes' last sentence actually answers the question I wanted to ask, namely whether security should be stopped if someone is in danger. What exactly is the purpose of stopping security? What does Mr Bontes intend to do with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u37	Other criminals aren't protected either. Dick Vrij and Willem Holleeder aren't going to protect us either. Then why Volkert van der Graaf? Why the special treatment for Volkert van der Graaf? It's just a killer, a parasite.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u38	I would like to remind Mr Bontes that the purpose of punishing people is retaliation. However, you also hope that someone gets better and that someone eventually, when he gets out of prison, sometimes after a lot of years he gets better out than he went in. That doesn't always work. Mr Van der G. did not show that he had changed his mind when it came to the murder he committed, and that is appalling. But if someone is free, does the rule of law apply to someone with the opinions that are not yours? Is the life of someone who has committed an act that you despise worth as much as the value of your own life?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u39	I've worked with the police for almost 30 years. I can tell if someone's still dangerous, if someone's still a narcissist and if someone's still having psychopathic traits. I've seen that broadcast, and I've seen enough. This is still a potential recidivist. I don't have any confidence that this man is completely harmless right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u40	I understand that the ground for him no longer to be protected is the fact that he has views and ideas that Mr Bontes does not like?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u41	No, Mr. Chairman, other criminals don't get that special treatment either. Then why Volkert van der Graaf? You can't explain that, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u42	Mr Bontes says very clearly that others are not being guarded or protected. How does he know that? Those are things that never come out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u43	I give the example of Dick Vrij, a well-known boy in Amsterdam, who voluntarily went to jail because he feared for his life.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u44	That doesn't mean that others do too. I think Mr Bontes is using very big words here. Nor does it suit a Member of Parliament to interfere in guarding and securing anyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u45	It's very good for a Member of Parliament to say something about that. And Mrs. Berndsen, D66 is for guarding and securing Volkert van der Graaf, a murderer who is still dangerous.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u46	D66 represents the rule of law and its values.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u47	May I respond to that, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u48	I see this as a personal fact. There must be no further reaction to that. It's listed in the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u49	It's a shame.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u50	I call Mrs Voortman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u51	Mr. Chairman. And again, the Ministry of Security and Justice is in conspiracy, this time by blundering with a staged photo that apparently everyone in the Ministry knew of, except the political leaders. GroenLinks notes that there has been a lot of blunders in communication. For example, it is unclear who exactly came up with the idea of placing a photograph of the country's most famous ex-delinquent in a national newspaper. We also do not know exactly what the idea was based on that there were safety risks and that they could be mapped out by an arranged photo publication. While the national coordinator had long lost interest, the official mills were in full swing in the public prosecutor's office and the department. There's been a lot of meetings, but why hasn't there ever been any mention of blowing off the photo moment? How can it happen that the direction of this very high-profile scoop has apparently been lost? The political feedback is also characterised by a blunder. Back then, Minister Opstelten indicated that he had a certain reminder of a discussion with the Attorney General about a possible photo moment. But then Secretary of State Teeven doesn't know anything about it, he says. Apparently, such conversations are not recorded in any way. The same applies to the questions asked by Brandpoint in July 2015. This also applies: the Minister knew nothing about it. How is that possible? It suggests that these kinds of political and public sensitive issues and their possible consequences are not appreciated. Apparently, there is no one who thinks at such a time: this is so sensitive, let us inform the Minister. In short, how could it have happened that everyone at the Ministry of Security and Justice knew about the possible photo moment, except for those responsible for politics? Why didn't the minister and the people around him make the connection between the photo he had already published and the conversation he had with the Attorney General on 17 June 2014? Shouldn't he have seen this right away? Or was this a deliberate ignorance? To what extent has all this been done by the one-sided focus on law and order that prevails in the Ministry? Since Rutte I, justice has been replaced by security. Principles such as "statutory relations" are structurally weak in this respect. Tough language and hard, harder, hardest in terms of security are more important than a good rule of law. The chance of all this blunder can be reduced if you make a pure separation between security on the one hand and justice on the other. This strengthens mutual control, which would benefit the rule of law. We would like a response from the Minister. The shortcomings are reflected in the provision of information to the Chamber. It is good that the Minister is going through the dust for that. This should not happen too often, especially in a department such as Security and Justice. It makes a heavy change in public and political confidence in the process of justice and the rule of law, when facts become known when they appear in the newspaper. However, whether the excuses of last Tuesday are sufficient depends on how the Minister answers the aforementioned questions. We also want to hear from him how he intends to deal with this in the future. How does the Minister intend to strengthen the political sensitivity of his official summit and of the Public Prosecutor's Office? There is also room for improvement in the file-making and reporting of discussions between the Attorney General and the Minister in particular. Does the Minister share this conclusion from GroenLinks? Finally. Tunnel vision has caused many miscarriages of justice. Now the department itself seems to suffer. On the contrary, I expect the Minister of Justice, who must defend the rule of law, to have a strong critical mass to break through this. We would like to hear his concrete plans to achieve this, because without them, a sincere apology remains meaningless.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u52	Mr. Chairman. The minister's predecessor stumbled upon it: a long trip over a receipt that wasn't there and yet it is again. The then minister was in his shirt due to insufficient cooperation, insufficient political sensitivity and incorrect information. The business at the Ministry is still not in order. In a case where everyone feels that it is politically sensitive, services are not working together properly again, information is not shared again, the provision of information to the Chamber is not good again and the Minister is in his shirt again for the first time, but the Minister in general. And the leak on the Ministry isn't up yet. It's up to this minister to close that leak. Behind this case is a greater inconvenience. You can't imagine a case that has more priority than Volkert van der G. Many in the Netherlands still feel the pain of the murder. The anger of the unsub is far from gone. Even the current Prime Minister has interfered, but it went wrong. What does that say about the confidence we need to have in this very important ministry, the ministry that has to prevent terrorist attacks, that has to have serious criminals prosecuted? Trust in the Ministry has been damaged and needs to be restored. Today, the most important question for the functioning of democracy is: is the Chamber well informed? I have to answer that question in the negative. During Question Time last Tuesday, the Minister said that only a day before the public prosecutor was informed about the photograph of Volkert van der G. in De Telegraaf. He also said that his predecessors were not aware of this. According to his letter of Tuesday, both claims are incorrect. Information has not reached him, information has been provided without the right context and he himself has not acted with caution in the response. The Minister had information he did not share with the Chamber. You can't do that, and you can't do that anymore. In his letter, the Minister admitted these mistakes, including his own, and regretted the way in which they were being carried out. He says how he should've done it differently, how he should've done it differently, and that graces him. The Minister then describes how he wants to solve the problems; this is necessary. After all, he is politically responsible for this. He can remove the mistakes by solving the problems he inherited from his predecessors. I do have a few more factual questions about the way things are going. How could it be that a month before it was known that Brandpoint came up with a broadcast about Van der G. and that they were surprised anyway? The press officer of V and J had been approached twice by Focal Point. I can hardly imagine that educators do not realize how sensitive this was and has not passed on anything. The Secretary of State was not present at the steering committee meeting of which he was formally a member. After all, he didn't know anything. The steering committee existed after a series of decisions on the photo had been taken. On the steering committee, the Minister and the Secretary of State were in session. Why weren't they aware of this decision? Has the National Coordinator on Counter-Terrorism and Security passed on to the Public Prosecutor, as we read on page 6 of the letter, not such a good idea to find the picture, or has it not, as we read on page 7 of the letter? Why wasn't Van der G's lawyer taken seriously by the D.A. when he said he'd bring out the truth if the D.A. didn't do it himself? Didn't the D.A. feel free in this case? Was that for safety reasons? How's the culture at the Ministry? Is there fear, for example? A compliment to the Minister that he has chosen to look into the matter well, against the pressure of time. He learned the lesson of the fall of his predecessor. This resulted in a letter in which he did not spare his ministry and himself, and in an order for his new secretary-general to do better. In my opinion, there is still a little too vague. How exactly? Preventing errors at this huge ministry requires thinking about the span of control. How many control mechanisms and how many management layers do you want to install? How do you still trust the people in the workplace? A committee is already working on how the cooperation and information transfer work at the Ministry and, above all, at the Public Prosecutor's Office. That is the Oosting Commission, which was set up after the fall of the previous minister. The mandate to that committee is limited; its composition is such that there are no specific organisational experts represented in it. However, there are many similarities between the Oosting Committee and the mandate recently given to the Secretary-General of the Ministry by the Minister. I therefore propose to link the Oosting Committee and the mandate to the Secretary-General. This will prevent duplication of work. In the debate following the outcome of the report by the Oosting Committee, we can then discuss concrete measures, including those taken as a result of the mandate given to the Secretary-General. It would be premature to anticipate this now and we would not take the committee and the Secretary-General seriously. Can the Minister respond to my proposal? This minister is in charge of a nasty legacy: a ministry that does not function properly in crucial areas. In the six months he has been a minister, this minister has shown that he knows how to handle things, but sometimes moves a little fast. It must be slowed down rather than urged. Even now, it is important to deal with matters quickly but carefully. The problems require that. After all, confidence in the Ministry of Security and Justice must be restored. Minister, take it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u53	Mr Recourt does not escape the harsh conclusion that the House of Representatives has been misinformed by this Minister. But he said something else: this minister came to this place six months ago to close the leak. Or did Mr Recourt say that this minister had to close the leak? How does Mr Recourt look back on the first six months? Does he think that this minister has done enough so far to put his ministry in order?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u54	I can't see that. Because I don't know what's going on internally at the ministry. What I do see is that there is a new Secretary-General. What I do see is that, partly by this Chamber, the Oosting Committee has been appointed to examine a number of the questions I have just asked. So yes, directly with the appointment of the Minister even more so, the Oosting Commission was set up just before this minister took office, and what we discussed with the Prime Minister was given attention to the leak that the previous minister had already stumbled upon and caused this minister to get into trouble again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u55	I have also seen that Mr Recourt, the PvdA Group, has now for the first time made a clear statement about bringing Security back to the Ministry of the Interior. I'm very happy about that. My question to Mr Recourt is whether it would not be wise to prepare for that and not to wait until there are new elections and then go to the formation to see if this is possible. Is it wise to wait if we believe that it is better to restore the balance between the rule of law on the one hand and security on the other? Does that have to wait that long?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u56	The answer to that is yes, partly because the National Police are currently in a major reorganisation. We have debated this recently. It's not going well. It is this minister who should be in charge of that. If we now tell the Minister that he should start working on the disappearance of that police organisation, it will not strengthen his position, he will not be able to lead it and it will not benefit the reorganisation. However, the incidents have led me to the conclusion that the Ministry is going to be very large. I think the span of control is so wide that it's asking for mistakes. There is also a substantive consideration. D66 has often said that spreading power and influence is a good thing in our society and our democracy. You do that by bringing the police back to the Home Office.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u57	On that last point, I would like to continue, because this proposal has a practical but also a fundamental reason. In response to the Minister's letter, Mr Recourt said that the ministry has been overloaded and has become very large. It would therefore also be good for practical reasons. There is also a fundamental point: power needs counterpower. So it would be good to transfer the police to the Home Office. But that point has been made much more often, so shouldn't the PvdA Group have made that point at the coalition talks? Then they sat at the table, then it could have been arranged.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u58	When you look back, you can see that the situation was different back then. There was then an ambition to tackle safety in the Netherlands. An ambition to create a National Police, and to put a nice central line of authority and structure into it. It was a wish of the previous cabinet and the VVD, but I think my group has something to say about it, because I had not been told about it during the negotiations: that is what we are going to lie down for. All you can see is that that doesn't work out. That is why we say: let the next cabinet seize the opportunity to change that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u59	Then my question is: is it only a practical point or is it also a matter of principle? The name change at the time to let Security go for Justice is significant. That was not the choice of the PvdA Group, but it did come aside in 2012 and could have made that very fundamental point at the time. Is it a practical consideration or is it really a matter of principle for the PvdA Group?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u60	That's a misrepresentation of things, isn't it? All options have advantages and disadvantages, as with everything in life. We then came up with a plan to do it this way; let us have security there is the Labour Party particularly for the people of Europe indeed well represented and organized. The balance has gone to the other side.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u61	From what Mr Recourt has said, many mistakes have been made at the Public Prosecutor's Office, at parole and at the department. The Minister is in charge of this, says Mr Recourt, so he is also responsible. But isn't the Minister also responsible for his own information position when he comes to the Chamber for Question Time? How does the Labour Party view that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u62	Yes, of course, the ministerial responsibility is very broad. This applies to what officials do, to what the Minister himself does. I can't and I don't want to take anything away from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u63	Mrs Berndsen, that will be your third interruption in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u64	No, I'll leave that interruption for someone else.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u65	Perhaps my interruption is heading in the direction of Mrs Berndsen's. I just heard Mr Recourt say: that broad span or control is asking for mistakes. If you think that the security and justice policies should be separated, that they should be separated, then why choose to continue to muddle and then make the transition? I understand the argument of reorganisation in the National Police, but at the same time I wonder how Mr Recourt sees that transition. Should this then be done in a few weeks?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u66	Of course, that should not happen in a few weeks. That must be done in a good way. Fortunately, both ministries are already in one building. That's okay. I don't think this is gonna bring with it big moves. But it clearly requires study. Reorganizing isn't what you do from today to tomorrow. My answer rather to Mr Van Nispen's question and now to Mrs Voortman's question as to whether this should not be done now is no. There are other things going on with the police now. We'll walk right through that when we're already going to presort.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u67	I understand that Mr Recourt says that it should not be now, but he also says that it should not be around the cabinet formation in a few weeks. Then what is the moment when we have to start doing this, so that we are ready at the next formation immediately?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u68	This is a subject which, as far as my party is concerned, should be on the table at the next formation. I hope my party's in there, too. This means that preparatory actions are not already being carried out. Because that's ruling over your grave. That is what the parties are about to form the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u69	Madam President. Each of us remembers the impact of the murder of Pim Fortuyn 13 years ago. The social unrest was great. Suddenly the political landscape changed. That social unrest was there again last year. Then the killer, Volkert van der Graaf, first went on probation. Even later, he was released under conditions after two thirds of the sentence. The Secretary of State was fully supported by the SGP in order to prevent this from happening. For no one it was a secret that this particular particular case is politically very sensitive. This proved to be the case in all the debates. That also makes sense given the context of the murder. Every step in such a process is therefore closely followed by media and politicians. Fortunately, the Minister's letter of Tuesday showed that the rulers too were fully aware at the time of the need for caution. He writes that the rulers attached great importance to timely and complete information on all important developments. But what exactly shows in this matter is that "timely and complete" has actually happened? The picture we get is that this minister didn't know what his predecessors knew, that this minister didn't get the right information from his ministry in a short time last week, and that sensitive information was written several times by the minister that in his letter himself was only known to employees and didn't penetrate to the highest level in the ministry. We must note that there is a real problem here. Only six months ago, two rulers left because of a fifteen-year-old receipt that was in a corner of the archive. Now it's a case that goes much deeper. It is good that the Minister points out that there are errors of assessment, but the Minister's information needs to be in order. How is it that the Minister was not informed in more detail last week? How is it that even in such a serious matter, all the official alarm bells don't ring? According to the Minister, taking a photo appointment is very exceptional, but it is only then that the Minister should be informed in detail. That was reinforced when the lawyer insisted on making the right and complete information public because he would otherwise do so himself. How come this didn't get through? How come those alarm bells didn't ring back then? That brings me to the question of exactly what the Minister knew last week. He really didn't know the essence last week? What does the magic formula that comes back in the letter a few times, "summer and with a limited focus," exactly? Does that justify leaving things out of the picture? Not as far as we're concerned. As a Chamber, we are always good at debating the last detail, but as far as the SGP is concerned, it is also, and above all, the structural side of the matter. The SGP has the impression that there is something wrong with the organization and communication within the Ministry. That feeling was already there in the spring. That feeling hasn't diminished. Now the Minister states that he has asked to improve the provision of information and improve the posts. Yeah, it'd be crazy if it wasn't. That should be a perfectly normal matter. Haven't those questions been asked in previous issues too? Have the former rulers and no doubt at his start not already mentioned this minister: I want all the information and I want that information in good time; all the relevant and politically important information must come to me in good time? So what changes does the Minister's appeal now make to this issue? Or do the officials think: well, that is yet another call, which can still be added in the pile? This brings me to the question of whether there is anything wrong with the structure and staffing of the Ministry. Is the political antenna in key positions even in order? Is it clear which criteria apply to timely information? The key question then is: how is it ensured that we will not have another issue of this kind on hand in the near future? Or, more importantly, how is it ensured that the Minister is informed in good time and correctly and that the Chamber is informed in good time and correctly? We are very interested in the Minister's answers. On that basis, we will draw our conclusions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u70	Mr. Chairman. That the return of Volkert van der G., the man who has a political murder on his conscience, could cause a fuss, the minister realized all too well. It is a politically extremely sensitive issue. If this wasn't clear after Prime Minister Rutte said some very rough things about this during the 2012 election campaign, at least when the conditional release was due in 2014. In the 2014 debate on this subject, the current minister was still the VVD spokesperson. If at that time it was not clear how politically sensitive this issue was, then surely after the broadcast of Brandpoint Reporter last Sunday. And yet it happens to this minister. Two days after the broadcast, in which Volkert van der G. suggests that the photo was staged on the front page of De Telegraaf, the Minister in Question Time tells only a fraction of the whole story: the Public Prosecutor would have been informed only a day in advance and the Minister himself knew nothing. About everyone in the official and political summit was aware that a picture would be staged. So the Minister's story didn't add up. It was an incorrect and incomplete picture. The SP thinks this is a big mistake on the part of the minister. The people's representatives, and thus society, are at that time misrepresented. How is it that the politically responsible executive on such a sensitive subject is not fully aware of the state of affairs in his own ministry? We have been watching a mockery in Question Time, while the Minister was warned. He was told that around the conditional release there was talk of taking a photo. The lawyer warned that the correct and complete information had to be made public. If the minister didn't do that, he'd do it himself. And that's what happened. In the meantime, the Minister has done a good job of sorting things out. The minister goes through the dust. He regrets the way things are going. What is his explanation for what happened last week in Question Time? How is it that only a fraction of the story was reported to the Chamber and no account was taken of the actual course of events? Was it bravure, an attitude of, "I'm talking my way out of it"? Was it complacency, nonchalance or underestimation: I know just about what's going on? Or is there something else going on? Did the Minister find it convenient that, on the basis of the brief information he had, he did not have to take responsibility for the course of events surrounding the photograph of Volkert van der G.? This was perhaps a bit difficult to explain to the supporters of the VVD, for example. I'd like to get an explanation for this. What exactly did the Minister do to find out exactly what was going on and what the seam of the stocking was after the broadcast of Brand Point Reporter on Sunday but before Question Time on Tuesday? Why didn't all the alarm bells go off with him and he didn't immediately ask for all the information from his people? This minister's been there for six months now. Let me remind you of why the Minister is in this place; he must remember that himself. The resignation of the former Minister and State Secretary to the Ministry of Security and Justice had become inevitable because the Chamber had repeatedly been misinformed about the settlement with drug criminal Cees H., and because there was everything wrong with the exchange of information between the Public Prosecutor, officials and the top of the department. The SP is deeply concerned about the state of the Ministry of Security and Justice. It's a bit of a press release ministry after all. Protecting the image of the ruler seems to be more important than improving security and strengthening the rule of law. So the question is again: who's in charge of the ministry? Are they the informers? Is it the employees who decide on their own what's good for the minister? Or is the Minister himself in charge? And what has he actually done since his arrival to put things in order in the Ministry? Two weeks ago, Chief Constable Bouman of the National Police received the Minister's full support. Today we received the message that the Chief Constable has suddenly quit. Does the Minister also have the chaos in this area in order? Two weeks ago we received answers to SP-Room questions from my colleagues Kooiman and Gesthuizen and myself. The Minister does not recognize himself in the image of a department that is primarily focused on image. He does not recognize that everything that goes wrong must be neutralized and that managing the imaging takes a lot of time and energy. There is no fixation on incident management and defensive action, according to the Minister. According to the Minister, the size of the ministry is not a matter of concern either. According to SP, he is. Is the Minister prepared to make preparations to return the police to the Ministry of the Interior, to reduce the Ministry to manageable proportions and restore the balance between security and justice? The SP wants a minister who stands for the rule of law. How is the Minister going to ensure that the emphasis on imagery and the image of the ruler does not lead the provision of information to the Chamber and the press? I want to be able to rely on the accuracy and completeness of the information we receive. What is the Minister going to do to restore confidence? Is the Minister in a hurry to restore confidence?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u71	Mr. Chairman. It feels pretty harsh to have to have a debate here now, when I am well aware that somewhere in this country a political killer is gloating for television, because he has managed to get us to spend another two weeks in this Chamber around his figure. He draws a long nose to our society; I have heard many colleagues say that. He commutes some back and forth between Apeldoorn and Harderwijk to add to his assistance. He does not, in his own words, fulfil the obligations associated with obtaining assistance. He does not work, while on the other hand he benefits from the government, which provides personal security and which, as it turns out, has also cooperated or contributed to a photo reportage. And you know, personal security for security reasons, I get all that. But the latter, of course, gives an incredibly bitter aftertaste when we remember that Pim Fortuyn was shot unprotected.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u72	The words of Mr Van Oosten do appeal to me. They match the words I said myself. I'd like to table a motion in the second term to stop Volkert van der Graaf's security. After all, other criminals are not protected either. Will Mr Van Oosten support me?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u73	Personal security is for consideration by the Minister and the organisations that deal with it. That is how we arranged it in this Chamber and in our system. Mr Bontes, you can hear me say that I am not opposed to personal security, but I find it sad and sad that we have developed a system in which we must then protect someone who kills a politician at the expense of the taxpayer. But I stand before it, because this is a rule of law. Everyone deserves protection. That even applies to someone like Volkert van der G., but it does give a bitter aftertaste. That's what I said.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u74	So we know the VVD again: tough words and sharp language, but when it comes to packing, the weak knees come out again and Mr. I know enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u75	Mr Van Oosten rightly says that Volkert van der G. makes a long nose for Dutch society. When he was released, Secretary of State Bitch came up with a bill to improve supervision. My colleague Van Toorenburg, Mrs Helder and Member of Parliament Van der Steur were then put together to adopt an amendment to ensure that the probationary period could be extended and that you could put someone completely on hold. We believe that this should be done at Volkert van der G. How does the VVD see the role of the minister to best effect the probationary period, precisely through this amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u76	Exactly to address that point, there is a bill in the First Chamber on the issue of early or conditional release. I know that; we all know that. When it comes to Volkert van der G. I do demand that this be the next point in my contribution to this debate, which is going to make a very critical assessment of Volkert van der G.'s compliance with all these special and general conditions. I call again on the Minister to have that checked. I really think we should take every straw so that the judge can talk about the question: has this guy complied with those rules? If not, there may be considerable consequences, as far as I am concerned, but that is for the judge to decide.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u77	That appeals to me very much, but I am specifically concerned about supervision. If you're freed, that's what we're faced with now, you can be constantly jammed. The D.A.'s supervision and supervision by the parole board can be extended over and over again in the case of dangerous convicts. That is also the case in this case. Mr Van der Steur was a co-author of that amendment. Does the Ministry have to do everything in its power to clamp down Van der G? Can he say on TV that he's going to sue for free and that he's just applying for benefits because he doesn't want to work? Shouldn't we just go much harder on that? What is the VVD's position on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u78	Of course you have to act as hard as possible, but you have to have a legal title. If something doesn't have a legal title yet, of course it can't. This is without prejudice to the fact that I want the judge to seriously review the general and special conditions to which I constantly refer. I want the judge to dismiss the question whether Volkert van der G. has exceeded those conditions. If so, it is up to the court to draw conclusions. I am as excited as you, Mr Oskam. I am just as excited as Mrs Helder on this point. But I can't retroactively introduce rules around his person. I don't have that authority at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u79	Mr Segers, this will be your third question in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u80	Mr Van Oosten rightly says that emotions, personal feelings, are not decisive in a rule of law. It's about legal rules. That is an important starting point. Should the same principle not have led the discussion on probation and conditional release? On the one hand, we had the Secretary of State and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats who suggested that this could be stopped, while on the other hand the same probationary leave and the same release were prepared within the Ministry.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u81	When it comes to the question of how to deal with the release of Volkert van der G. and the conditions under which, I read in the letter that a good thought has been given to how to shape that in the best way. And I think that's very sensible. What is, of course, completely idiotic is that at any time that whole process has gone on beyond the knowledge of the Minister and his Secretary of State. You can't do that in this country!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u82	That may have something to do with the fact that there is a difference between what is in the window and what is happening inside. On the one hand, they want to show strength and toughness. Today we have also heard words in the vein of: we are going to tackle every straw to make it as difficult as possible. On the other hand, you can also stand for the rule of law. It is precisely in such a process that you must avoid disappointing citizens by saying 'rules are rules', even when it is difficult and also when it comes to the murder of Pim Fortuyn. Should that not have been the attitude of both the leaders and the leader of the VVD and the VVD groups?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u83	Do you know what the attitude of the executive of the VVD should have been? It should have been able to determine a choice based on the information provided to it by his ministry. Then the Minister could have made a responsible choice with all the information flows and made a political decision. Then he would have been able to communicate it with all 150 Members of Parliament and we could have discussed it. You know what I think is the worst of all? That is that I really feel that, as a result of the culture that exists in that ministry, it is difficult for me to put my finger on this process without us being able to do our job and without us being able to carry out political control over what the minister ultimately decides, whether we agree with it or not. I find that the worst and that has come up from the case Volkert van der G. I do not want it to be dealt with on a whole range of other issues that may come to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u84	I hear Mr Van Oosten say that the judge must check whether Volkert van der G. has complied with the conditions. But before the judge can test, the D.A. has to refer that case to the judge. The Public Prosecutor's Office itself is concerned about this and not the Chamber and not the Minister at first, unless the Minister gives a clue. Do I actually hear Mr Van Oosten say: Minister, if the Public Prosecutor himself does not do so, should a clue be given?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u85	You will hear me say nothing but what I indicated last week. So the answer is yes. I read in the letter that the Minister shares the opinion of the Public Prosecutor when it comes to not violating the media ban. I do not know if I share the Minister's opinion on this. So I keep challenging him to that. I also note that there are other conditions attached to this release, for example that in general you should not violate the Code of Criminal Law. Well, let's get that checked out. Let all those lawyers who are active in that department look very critically and very carefully at whether the spirit of all these conditions under which this figure has been set free. In the end, it's the judge who has to judge it. I challenge the Secretary of State to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u86	I do have a problem with that because we have legally arranged for the Public Prosecutor's Office to have the decision-making power here. By the way, it would be very weird if the Public Prosecutor said "take a picture" and then say, as far as the person whose photo was taken, "you shouldn't have taken a picture." Every judge laughs at the district attorney who comes with it, but that aside. It's the principle that matters to me. Does the VVD want to say here from the Chamber indirectly through the Minister to the District Attorney in an individual case: this is how you should act? That would be a very far-reaching position.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u87	As the Minister indicated last week and as the letter states, an investigation is taking place and the probation is looking at it. I'll wait for that with interest. I do not rule out that the outcome is that the Public Prosecutor says on his own initiative: I will refer this to the judge. I really hope so, too. I am not saying anything new because I said the same last week. However, in the event that the Public Prosecutor does not do so, I challenged the Minister last week, and I do so again by saying to him: please do not hesitate to think of the power of direction that you have under the law. So that is not at all a power that he can simply draw; it is a power on the basis of a legal principle which the Chamber has agreed to at some point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u88	Mr Van Oosten said at the beginning of his speech that we are standing here today because it is about Volkert van der G., who may be sitting at home watching television at the moment. Maybe it is. The reason why we are here is above all the information provided by the Minister to the Chamber. It was the questions of Mr van Oosten, a colleague of the VVD, who was wrongly answered by the Minister. Does Mr Van Oosten not feel a little fooled by this minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u89	I will come back to that in a moment, if Mr Van Nispen will allow it. I can take an advance on it. I don't feel fooled, but I do think I'm not being able to do my job in the best way possible. I think that is very serious, because 150 of us are expected to represent the whole country. If we do not receive complete and complete information, we will be cut back. I think I am sure that the Minister has learned good lessons, including where he is personally concerned as a minister in the past two weeks. I would also like to know what lessons these are, but I do not think they are sufficient. I really think that other steps, more steps and measures should be taken to break the culture in which politically brilliant information cannot always reach this stage.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u90	In the rest of the speech, I hope to hear what measures they should be. I'm going to go further on this point anyway. Mr Van Oosten has also read in the timeline that the Minister has been informed. Although it was "summer" and with a "limited focus," whatever that may be, the Minister has been informed. He's been warned that the lawyer had threatened to bring out the real truth, no matter what happened. Nevertheless, he did not tell Mr Van Oosten a correct and incomplete story in Question Time; not just Mr Van Oosten, but all of us and therefore all of society. I would like to ask again how Mr Van Oosten is assessing that fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u91	We need to ask the Minister about the exact nature of the brief and limited-focus transfer of information. I do have a vision. I have a picture, and that is the answer to your question, Mr Van Nispen. Do you know what I think might have happened? That the Minister, so to speak on his way to Question Time, has been briefed by one of the leaders at the official summit: and-this-and-this-this. It's like a door call. Yeah, sorry. The Minister must draw lessons from this, namely that he cannot accept it in this way, but we cannot accept that the official summit in the Ministry clearly allows information to be made available to the Minister on such a politically brilliant subject, so that we cannot do our job? What does that say about other themes, about other files in the Ministry? I'm worried about that. So I also want the Minister to work on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u92	Mr Van Oosten speaks quite a lot of language. He did that last week in Question Time. However, the broadcast was on Sunday night. Does Mr Van Oosten then share the view of the D66 Group that it is also up to the Minister that he was not sufficiently informed? All the red flags are supposed to go up when Volkert van der G's file is on the table. I thought the Minister was supposed to be informed on Monday morning. Then Mr Van Oosten cannot put the blame alone at the official summit. How does he look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u93	I'm not gonna do that, am I? I have just indicated, in answer to questions from I believe Mr Van Nispen, that I am sure I am curious to hear, I put it down to the Minister by this way, that the Minister has learned a lot of lessons in the past two weeks. At the same time, when it comes to the upcoming broadcast of Brand Point Reporter on the basis of which I have submitted my questions, I note that it is obviously incomprehensible that in all those bodies and organisations involved, the political antenna was obviously missing at that time to pass that on to the Minister. I really don't understand that. I believe that this requires the Minister to look very critically at what this says about the flow of information in his ministry. Again, I challenge him to that. I'm not making a secret of that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u94	I hear Mr Van Oosten again blaming the Minister for having to be informed by the organisation. I do not hear Mr Van Oosten say that the Minister is also responsible for being informed, because he too knew how sensitive this dossier is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u95	Oh, but the Minister also has that responsibility. That is why I am also saying that I am sure that the Minister is also taking lessons from this. I hope the Minister learns from this. I also expect the Minister to take lessons from this, and I am quite sure of that. But what matters is that there were other colleagues before me who also brought that up. I also detect a culture issue, a more structural issue within the Ministry. I think it is now our fair task to give the Minister the opportunity, to call it that, to blossom something beautiful, in the sense that we are going to organize that we are being given the best possible opportunity to do our job. That is what I am trying to do with this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u96	Mr Van Oosten was allocated that question on Volkert van der Graaf during Question Time. It's about providing information to the minister. At what point has Mr Van Oosten been in contact with the Minister and what have they discussed before Question Time? What did they discuss together?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u97	What did I discuss with the Minister? Let's see. I watched the show on Sunday from Focal Point Reporter. That's when I signed in the questions. No, I filed those questions earlier than Focal Point Reporter, based on an article on ThePostOnline or something like that. That's when I filed those questions. I then went into Question Time and, of course, I asked: are you going to give us a good answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u98	"Are you going to give us a good answer?" That's the pre-consultation. What did the Minister say then? I want to know more about that, because this sounds like something's been prepared.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u99	No. I don't want to be so silly. Moreover, I would like to say that I am not even sure if I have been in contact with the Minister, but I have been in contact with his personal collaborator because I had registered those questions. I think it is perfectly normal for you to mention that you are submitting a question for Question Time. Then it is up to the Minister; the Minister is about his answers. When I saw that broadcast, I assumed that the situation was a great disappointment to me, that I would like to share with you that this was about setting up a broadcast by Volkert van der G. That would be a violation of the terms. I saw an opportunity in that, and I want to be honest about that, because I thought: that is a violation of the conditions, and that could easily lead the Minister to see an opportunity for the judge to answer that question again. The next day, like all of you, I was confronted with that lawyer's article.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u100	Mr President, I would like to make use of my last interruption; I have three. I will use that right away, because of course this is not right. There has been a preliminary discussion between Mr Van Oosten and the Minister or his assistant; this could be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u101	I don't know. You know, I informed you that I had submitted those questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u102	Let Mr Bontes ask his question first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u103	So this is precooked, discussed together, in a back room. I want to know exactly: did the Minister know what Mr Van Oosten was going to ask? What's tuned? In detail, I just want to know. Then Mr Van Oosten will not get away with an answer: that is normal, isn't it? That is not normal at all. We have dualism in this country and no precooked business.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u104	I fully agree with you and there is no question of that either. I report questions on the basis of a broadcast by Brandpoint Reporter, because Volkert van der G. suggests that he staged the situation. I'm excited about that. So I'm gonna report any questions, and I'm gonna report that I've submitted any questions. That's perfectly normal. Then you heard me ask the questions I reported last week and you heard the answers I received. You yourself are the one who, like a lot of others, the Minister himself also says: gosh, those answers were not entirely consistent. Yeah, I think it's all sad and sad, I wish I hadn't, but I don't change it. But don't insinuate that I have had a meeting with the Minister in which I have been boiling out what answers the Minister was going to give. The Minister himself is talking about his answers and he won't even let me tell him what I should say if I wanted to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u105	That is very relevant, because at what point did the Minister then consult within his ministry on this subject on the basis of that contact? Then I would like to know: for example, did the Minister discuss this with his management on Monday?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u106	You'll have to ask the Minister that question later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u107	I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u108	I do not think it is surprising that you should send an app to your minister to inform him that you have submitted questions, but it makes it all the more amazing that, as Mr Van Oosten expects, the Minister will be briefed somewhere in the corridors. My question is about the media ban. Mr Van Oosten states that he believes that it is necessary to look again at whether the ban on the media has been violated. The Minister has already said that he shares the opinion of the Public Prosecutor that this is not the case. Now Mr Van Oosten says that he wants the national attorney to take a look at it. Does that mean that he is going to present the proposal here to have the national attorney look again at whether the minister and the prosecutor have actually made a wrong assessment of this media ban?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u109	No, I'm not gonna do that. You have heard me say that I take that challenge to the Minister. The Minister himself writes that the probation is investigating whether or not the conditions have been violated. I suggest that we try to think a little bit wider than just specifically focused on those conditions as such, but also in the "spirit of." I can imagine that there are a lot of competent lawyers in the department, but perhaps also in the country's attorney, that is all up to the Minister, the Public Prosecutor and anyone who goes about it who can be used to organize that you really take the smallest straw to make Volkert van der G. feel that what he's doing isn't right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u110	The investigation that is currently taking place has been initiated on the occasion of the focal point broadcast and not on the occasion of the photo moment. The Minister has already said that there is no violation of the media ban, following the example of the prosecution. If Mr Van Oosten now says that he wants more to happen, that there should be another look at it, then he thinks that the Minister should make a change of course. Then he has to come up with proposals, or else he will just be breeching here and radiating an angry attitude that doesn't really matter in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u111	I can't be any clearer than I am. It is in principle up to the Public Prosecutor's Office, Mr Recourt, to instruct me to submit something to the judge in the interrupting debate. If the Public Prosecutor does not do so, the Minister may organise that movement on the basis of the designation decision by asking the Public Prosecutor to do so. I read that the Minister does not bear that wish when it comes to the violation of the media. I am not so sure about that yet, but there are other points, other than just the media ban that you might want to take a critical look at to see whether or not they have been exceeded. I try to explain that to Mrs. Voortman every time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u112	Mr. Oskam, your third interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u113	I think Mr Van Oosten is slipping away from Mr Bontes' questions. They are crucial questions because we want to know when the Minister was informed and what he could have done on his own responsibility. I'm a fact-relazen man. At 6:35 p.m. on the Internet, that broadcast's on its way. Mr Van Oosten says: I saw that and then I immediately notified Parliamentary questions. So that's Sunday afternoon, Sunday night. I would like a specific answer to my question: who called Mr Van Oosten? Did Mr Van Oosten call the Minister's PA? Did the PA call Mr Van Oosten? On a normal question such a PA says: what do you want to know, what is it about, what is the purpose of your question? Well, there's been a conversation about that. We'd like to have a presentation of that conversation. It's that easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u114	You shouldn't ask me for the presentation of the conversation. You should ask the Minister. In fact, you are asking questions to the Minister. I'd like to explain my position to you again. There's gonna be a broadcast from Focal Point Reporter. An article was published on a news site prior to that broadcast. I'll take note of that. Since I am very excited about the subject, it gives me an opportunity to send a message to the Registry immediately with a request for Question Time. I can imagine that at some point, but frankly I did not state a statement of the time or whatever it was that I had signed up for Question Time. That seems perfectly normal to me. I also put it on Twitter, so you might as well have picked it up. That's all. Then I asked the questions you heard me ask, and we heard the Minister's answers. I can't do it any other way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u115	Mr Van Oosten is apparently also psychic, because I have heard that he has notified the question rather than that the message was on the Internet. Anyway, that aside.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u116	No!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u117	Wait a minute. I'll take care of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u118	Mr van Oosten feels that this is a matter of personal concern. That's why I'm giving him a chance to respond. You can then ask your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u119	It's very simple. An article appears on a news site. From my point of view, that was TPO, but it could have been another site. That was a reason for me to report the question. So that was before the broadcast.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u120	We're not gonna go blackball, but it was on the Internet at 6:35 p.m. and at 6:01 p.m. the question was logged in, but that's for what it's worth. What Mr Van Oosten is doing now, he has done to Bontes and me before. He sketches the procedure and says, "Yes, we've been in touch." Actually, I'm asking who called. Who took the initiative? Was that Mr Van Oosten or the Minister's PA? In that conversation we discussed: "What are your questions? What do you want to know?" Come on!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u121	I'll answer you anyway. I'll answer you anyway. I suppose I put it down at some point: gosh, I asked a question about that. That's perfectly normal, by the way. Then it's up to the minister. After that, I will simply ask my questions in Question Time. That's perfectly normal. By the way, don't pretend I'm the only one who would have paid attention to this subject. I've seen a lot of colleagues come by on Twitter to explain that broadcast.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u122	I just heard the crap about the timing. I would like to support my colleagues, because I was also one of those who had signed up for Question Time for the broadcast of Brand Point and the link on the website. I remember the exact time, and the colleagues who were affected are quite right. I just sent an e-mail to the Registry and was smart enough to ask: gosh, when was colleague Van Oosten and when was I? I should also like to catch Mr Van Oosten on that little mistake. I also want to catch him on another mistake and on what he said about the Van Toorenburg/Helder/Van der Steur amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u123	Again, these are two questions in one. Mr Van Oosten is clearly offended by this comment and wants to be able to respond. Then I'll give you a chance to ask your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u124	Offended? Insulted might be a little too much. Mrs Helder is insinuating that I have spoken in turn or something like that and that I have put in some kind of mechanism which allowed me to ask the question before she has been able to ask him. That's not the issue at all. I read an article and you can read it in the Acts of last week. That article was written "I say this from the outset" on TPO and it mentioned the findings that would be discussed in that broadcast. That was a reason for me to put those questions to the Registry. Apparently, you missed that article, but I can't help it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u125	Repeating doesn't make it any better. Mr Van Oosten could have spared himself this speech, because he merely emphasizes it. I go back to my question on the Van Toorenburg/Helder/Van der Steur amendment. Mr Van Oosten just said that this amendment has no retroactive effect and that it cannot therefore apply to Volkert van der G. You can do that! Mr Van Oosten must read the Minister's answers carefully. The question was: can you confirm that, if this bill is adopted, the construction in the said amendment can be applied to current cases and thus to Volkert van der G. The Minister's reply: I can confirm that. This is not a question, it is an observation, and that is important in a debate on the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u126	May I say that I am pleased with Mrs Helder's comment? I would like to take the opportunity to pass the question on to the Minister. Maybe he can indicate what action this can lead to. It is only our common objective that I can try to strengthen it, at least to make Volkert van der G. feel that he should not be able to continue to do so unpunished. I would like to add that it is ultimately up to the judge to make a judgment on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u127	I can give Mr Van Oosten that answer as well, because the answers to the questions raised by the First Chamber take a long time and the Minister expects that in October of this year, this month, the answers can be sent to the Committee of the First Chamber. Mr Van Oosten will be joining me when I call on the Minister on this point for an emergency.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u128	Oh, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u129	I'll be back on that Sunday. At some point a piece appears on a website. Mr Van Oosten seems to be on top of that, because he immediately addresses his questions. In the evening there will be that broadcast and since then Mr Van Oosten has suddenly lost his memory until Tuesday morning. What happened in the meantime? When did anyone contact anyone about what was going to happen here on Tuesday?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u130	I'm reading that article. I'll report the subject to the Registry for Question Time. That same evening, I watch that broadcast with the greatest possible interest. The next day I have a busy program with everything. The newspapers are then, at least I think I remember, fairly full about, or at least there is reference in several articles in the newspapers to the broadcast of the focal point, in which everyone is, almost, furious about the fact that Volkert van der G. has been given the opportunity to do so and believes that this should lead to consequences. That's it. That's all it is. Are you not going to ask me, Mr Krol, or ask me or expect me to... That's not true. I just filed a question, no more and no less than that. That's my expensive duty as a Member of Parliament. I also indicated on Twitter that I want an explanation from the Minister, no more and no less than that. It was given by the Minister on Tuesday in response to my questions. Those answers, as it turned out afterwards, I also find that very regrettable when we read the information of the lawyer in the Volkskrant on Wednesday, I believe. You can look for anything, but I'm afraid that's all I can offer you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u131	However, I would like to look for everything and everything. I am surprised that someone who is so good at this dossier, who is on top of the website where the first announcement was made and who is excited about the television broadcast, suddenly does nothing on this subject from Sunday evening to Tuesday. I can't believe that. I'm curious if there have been any other contacts in the meantime.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u132	I can keep repeating myself. I read it on a website. It was also on NU.nl, I think. It was pretty much on every website. I'll sign that up. I'm watching the broadcast. Then what have I done in the meantime, you ask. Those questions prepared, of course! Besides, others did, because I don't know if I'm getting the question assigned at all at the time. Let us be honest: I am reporting for Question Time, and when will we hear from the Registry that you are being assigned a question? Sometime on Tuesdays. But I am sure of one thing, namely that there will be a colleague, because I am certainly not the only one who has notified this................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. I remember that it turned out to me, moreover, that Mr Helder, I believe, wanted to request a debate or something. You know what I'm trying to say about this? A child can feel that is immediately the criticism that I put in here that the upcoming broadcast of focal point alone, and the broadcast as such, is going to lead to political questions in this house. It's perfectly normal. In this case, that led to me being allowed to be the one who asked that question. No more, no less.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u133	I have a question on a very different point, because on the Sunday in question we were doing very different things. Perhaps the conclusion is that it would be wise for everyone to do so from now on. Mr Van Oosten has made it quite clear that culture in the Ministry should change, and that the Minister should do so. I very much agree with that; it is also in my contribution. Now, at the end of his letter, the Minister writes: "I have appealed to my official summit, including head of NCTV and the top of the public prosecutor's office, to improve the provision of information." Well, that's standard repertoire, I think. What does "I spoke to the top" mean? It should be different! Does Mr Van Oosten agree with me that the Minister will have to come up with a better story in the near future, which shows that he is really in charge of the ministry and that this culture is really going to be broken?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u134	In reply to your question, may I read out what I would have liked to say about that passage? That's what I'm gonna do. "Fine, the Minister is going to improve that cooperation. As far as I am concerned, this should have been done in the best possible way, but that aside. It is the authorities that are monitoring the security of our country; let me make that critical remark just a little bit longer. If the Minister is going to improve this, I would like to hear what he is going to do in concrete terms to improve cooperation and the exchange of information between the Ministry and the various associated organisations. What are we gonna do now? The Minister also announces measures within individual organisations, for example at the Public Prosecutor's Office. Be a little more specific." I shall continue, Mr President; I shall use my speech immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u135	Mr Dijkgraaf would like to ask another question on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u136	Now colleagues are beginning to suspect that we have called again and that we have agreed to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u137	Not on Sundays!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u138	I would ask a question and you would read your text. I can almost see them coming. But I conclude from this that Mr Van Oosten and I agree that the Minister will have to say very clearly, clearly and clearly, with concrete measures and not with incantations: I am going to break that culture in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u139	Yeah, but I'll tell him to know where it's gonna land. I have serious concerns about cultural aspects of the Ministry, but he should not take any measures which seem to be harsh but which ultimately do not solve the structural problem. It shouldn't take too long. We must not wait too long for this to happen either. I urge the Minister to act, much more than that letter shows. I would like to say that again in a moment, if I still come to my own contribution. At least something has to be done. Nor do I think that the Minister should run away from taking any personal measures. However, he must know where and with whom he takes it and what effect it will ultimately have.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u140	Mr Van Nispen, on this point Mr Van Oosten is still going into. It's about another point? Okay, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u141	One last time back to that Sunday night, I'm sorry. Following Mr Van Oosten's notification of the question and a firm demand from the Minister for good answers, Mr Van Oosten took a look at that broadcast. He just said, in response to questions from one of my colleagues, that a certain disappointment made him master. He had hoped, if I understood correctly, to see in the broadcast a reason, or at least a violation of the media ban. Did I understand correctly that Mr Van Oosten watched that broadcast with disappointment and that after that broadcast he was not quite sure whether the media ban had been broken? What did he mean by that remark?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u142	No, it's the other way around. That broadcast suggested that Volkert van der G. had violated that media ban. That's what my question was about. I therefore wanted to know from the Minister what he was going to organize. I assume that Mr Van Nispen was present at that Question Time in order to put the question to the judge: what consequences should this have for Volkert van der G.? The day after that we read an article in the Volkskrant by lawyer Franken, the lawyer at the time, which showed that it was a bit different. And another week later, we're here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u143	Sure, I was in that Question Time. I will not forget how the Minister informed the Chamber incorrectly and incompletely. Am I to understand that Mr Van Oosten looked at the broadcast of Brand Point Reporter in the hope that the media ban had been broken so that he could ask the minister to put Volkert van der G. back in jail? That is what I understand from the words of Mr Van Oosten. Is that exactly how it works under the rule of law?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u144	Maybe I didn't explain it very well myself. I'll do it again from the start. I read an article that mentions the upcoming broadcast of Brandpoint, suggesting that Volkert van der G. has violated the rules that have been imposed on him to be released early on parole, which belong to the rule of law, by faking something. I think that is a reason to say 'hey, hey, hey' and to ask the Minister where this can lead. I shall therefore report my questions to the Chamber and put them to Question Time in which Mr Van Nispen was also present. That was Tuesday. A colleague asked for a debate on this at the time. On Monday many articles were published about the broadcast as it took place. Everyone liked that, and I was one of them. That is exactly why I asked the Minister my questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u145	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u146	Thank you. In the meantime, I believe that I have said the necessary things from the contribution I had proposed, were it not that it was interrupted by questions on some points. I don't think that's serious, although it seems to sound like it now. I'm just gonna see which way I'm gonna avoid adding all kinds of repeats here. It is clear that, as I indicated last week in Question Time, I remain in complete agreement that a task may also be assigned to me by the Minister in the event that the Public Prosecutor does not come before the courts on his own initiative to make a critical assessment of whether these conditions have been violated by Volkert van der G. Has Volkert van der G. violated the spirit of the conditions? If only the smallest straw is present that this is the case, I remain of the opinion that you should seize it, given all that he has done and the statements he has made about it in that broadcast. The second point that I would like to raise, but which has already been dealt with in part, concerns the provision of information from the administration to the political summit. I have already indicated that the Minister has undoubtedly learned lessons from this; I wonder which one. I note that the political summit has not been sufficiently informed from the apparatus, concisely and with a limited focus. Apparently, there was a lot more to report. That's exactly why we're back here. I think you've been briefed incompletely. We can find all kinds of things and we can point to responsibilities and so on, but this minister is more or less appointed by us to take political decisions on the basis of a complete flow of information. We can only do our job if we can rely on the Minister to have all that information and take the Chamber with us so that we can debate it. The fact that there is obviously something wrong with that is a very bad observation in this whole story. As I pointed out just now when I spoke to a colleague, the Minister is now focusing on improving contacts and optimal cooperation between various bodies. I'd like to hear what's going to happen. I also want to know what specific measures are being taken at the D.A.'s office. His sg's on it. We're not gonna park it out there, are we? Are you sure the Minister himself is on top of this? A very important and important question is whether the Minister can assure the Chamber that all the necessary political information on which subject the Chamber reaches in the interim while that investigation is under way is known to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u147	Mrs Voortman, I assume on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u148	That's right, it's kind of connected. Mr Van Oosten is quite right to say that we in the Chamber cannot do our job unless we are properly informed. But who is responsible for that first?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u149	In the end, the Minister is always responsible. I'm not avoiding those words either. We can keep repeating this as a kind of state-law issue and just focus on it, but that does not remove the underlying structural problem. I'm excited about that. We are talking about agencies belonging to a department that is monitoring our security and our rule of law. These are such foundations for our lives and exist in this beautiful country that I believe that this flow of information should run optimally, that this flow of information should reach the minister and that we should be able as a politically complete and complete factor in all that we have an opinion on and have to debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u150	The excitement of Mr Van Oosten was indeed clear to me, but I have the feeling that his excitement is mainly about all kinds of others. He spends a lot of words on the prosecution, Volkert van der G. and at the official summit, but in the end one person is responsible, namely the minister. I am glad that Mr Van Oosten acknowledges that. I think his contribution is a little off on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u151	I will continue my speech. I'd like to make a few comments about the department itself. Mr Voortman referred to this just now in the interrupting debate. I'm worried about the culture there. I find it hard to put a finger on it, but I have concerns about the flow of information. I want the Minister to take his responsibility to improve it, to enable us to do our job in the best way possible. I just don't think some of the passages in the letter are chic. It says, for example, that relevant information has been limited to employee level. Yes, I'm sure you do, but the official summit needs to know what's going on so that the minister can be informed? Who is in charge of coordinating the various parts of the ministry? Who decides which information reaches the summit? I have already said something about the human rights measures. I've heard the Minister isn't considering it. I think that is too early and too soon, if you have to find that the Secretary-General is still taking action and examining it. You, Minister, get the VVD's confidence to deal with these sensitive dents at the ministry. But please, don't let Volkert van der G. walk away with this as a laughing third.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u152	As Mr Krol walks to the speaker's chair, I would like to say the following. Mr Van Oosten (PPE). - (NL) Mr President, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Van Oosten on his excellent report. Luckily, we keep everything. That is why I can tell you that on Sunday 20 September at 6.59 p.m., Mr Van Oosten sent an e-mail link to the message on the basis of which he asked his questions. Mr Bontes also submitted questions at 7.14 p.m. on the basis of another news item, while Mrs Helder submitted questions at 19.19 p.m. on the basis of the same source as Mr Van Oosten.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u153	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for this communication, which allows me to withdraw my last question, since I no longer have to ask it. Today we are talking about the hoarse play around the photo session of Volkert van der G. We're doing that with the current minister, only a few months in office. He had a fine intention when he took office: to clean up the official summit at the Ministry of Justice. Due to various events from the past and also due to this issue, it is clear that there are several clean brooms needed to refresh things properly. But unlike a major clean-up, it is impossible to change the working method and culture within the official summit drastically in a few days. Is it true that this minister still has those intentions? If so, 50PLUS would like to give him a little more time. Can he indicate how far he's going with this cleanup? The idea for the picture came from the government, confirms the fact that the Chamber was allowed to receive this week. The Minister at the time was aware of that plan. Isn't that right? The letter from the Chamber confirms the image of Security and Justice as a large and complex ministry, where poorly communicated. The Minister did not speak of this either, especially now that it appears that, just before the debate in the Chamber, the State informed the Minister that the possibility of taking a picture had been discussed there for some time. If you write that you do not realize the nature and extent of these conversations, then that is a serious miscalculation, which is more serious than an error of assessment. However, the main reason for the present trouble remains the organization of the Ministry itself. Does the Minister agree with us? Does he have an opinion on the size of his ministry? Does he see any reason to adjust that size? The fact sheet again shows a picture of officials who keep each other poorly informed and do not or do not inform the official summit and the minister sufficiently. The NCTV first found it useful to make an assessment of the threat level, which included a possible photo session, but he changed his mind: two weeks before the photograph was taken, it was considered that it was no longer necessary. But others, who were previously involved, such as the D.A., would not have been informed of this. Is this reconstruction correct and is it correct that the top of the ministry was no longer involved? Internal coordination and coordination are the Achilles heel of the Ministry, read in the letter. Information needs to be improved. Is it true that the current Secretary-General of the Ministry is going to draw up a plan to improve this? Can we estimate to what extent his approach will differ from his predecessors? And can 50PLUS assume that this plan will be a big cleanup? I hope I can draw hope from the colour of the tie the minister is wearing today. Very symbolically, he chooses a different color than we're used to. To finally get the ministry in calmer waters, a ruler with authority is needed. What does the Minister himself think of his authority? In any case, the current fuss in the media doesn't help him with that. What I really want to know is this. In other jobs, the employee is given a probationary period of several months. Does the Minister have the idea that his probation is successful or not? What didn't help is the fact that Pim Fortuyn's killer wasn't sentenced to life imprisonment. It does not suit me to criticise a judge's ruling, but it remains a fact that everyone could have seen that the temporary duration of the sentence would ever cause discomfort. It seems that this is still the case. This will therefore certainly not be the last debate on Volkert van der G. It is to be hoped that the Minister will use his authority not only to clean up his ministry, but also to find a way out of this incorruptible issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u154	Mrs Helder, you have another question for Mr Krol? No? A point of order?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u155	No, actually, a personal fact. You've done a wonderful job of keeping up those times. That is fine, but Mr Bontes' introduction to this question exercise was not about which of our colleagues was the first. It was the fact that Mr Van Oosten had submitted the question before the notice had even been published on the website.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-01-tweedekamer-6.u156	I said that Mr Van Oosten sent an e-mail to the Registry at 6.59 p.m., including a link to that article; if you click on it, you will end up there. So I assume it's right there. I can't see that again here, but if you'd like, you can come see the Registry and see if it was. But that link was in there, including the whole rule. That's how we do it, because questions that aren't based on anything aren't registered first either. I have no other views on telephone calls that have been made. However, for the procedure in this House, I thought it appropriate to say that the procedure was in accordance with the rules.
