ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for the Interior, Mr Plasterk. In particular, I would ask the members of the VVD Group, who are present in large numbers, to take their seats so that we can listen to the first speaker, Mr Veldman of the VVD Group, who will make his maiden speech. For the record, this means that there will be no interruption. You have that privilege once, Mr Veldman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u2	Mr. Chairman. I haven't tagged it, but if I'm right, I've been sworn in as the 2.525th MP since 1815. Many have therefore preceded me with a first plenary contribution, but it is a special experience to be able to stand here. I find it an honour to be able to function as a People's Representative in the House of Representatives. I used to spelled the newspapers and watched as long as I could at The Hague Today and other topical events on television. I was very involved and curious about what's happening in the world when I was a kid. As a historian, I like to make a link between the present and the past. Since high school, say, 30 years ago, I've been able and allowed to do a lot that has all contributed to the standing here now. Many have contributed to my development and to the way I view the world as a liberal. I would like to mention two people in particular. I'm here because of my father's silence. My father spent most of his puberty in a jappen camp. In his later life, like so many who came back from India, he hardly ever talked about it. My father's silence makes me want to speak out. Unfortunately, my father cannot be present anymore, but with his name, Habbo Siebold Veldman, he is present, through the Acts of this debate, forever.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u3	The second person I would like to thank is my high school history teacher, Mr Van den Oord. He is present and sits in the public gallery.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u4	He taught me how to think about the lessons of the past. He taught me that my opinion mattered. He challenged me to conduct the debate and taught me to take responsibility for carefully expressing my opinion. As a liberal, I fully agree with Albert Einstein's statement. In the 1930s, he said, "The world is dangerous. Not because there are evil people, but because there are people who sit and let it happen." He said this at a time when the freedom of many came under increasing pressure. In our time too, the freedom of life as we know it in our society is under pressure. Sitting around and doing nothing is not an option for me. Everyone who loves our society has a responsibility. Everyone can fulfil that responsibility for our freedom in their own way, as a cartoonist, as a columnist, as a journalist, as a police officer or as a military officer. There are many ways to go. My father, who was silent about his time in India, chose to contribute as a professional military in his working life. I now choose to make my contribution as a representative of the people, to stand up and speak out in the debate. Everyone in the Netherlands has a job and will have to take responsibility for others and certainly for themselves. It's important that you do things yourself. Looking at the government and expecting it to solve and regulate everything is wishful thinking. As far as I am concerned, the government has often gone too far in wanting to organize and regulate everything. With this we create the expectation that the government will actually take care of everything for you. It makes people passive: having an opinion, but taking no responsibility to solve it. This passivity and pointing the finger at someone else is strange to me as a liberal. Doesn't the government have any role to play? Of course you do! The government provides national and local security, roads, education, care and a social safety net. The government must do so in an efficient and effective way. If this is not possible, for example because of insufficient administrative power, then directors and representatives of the people must take responsibility. The bill we are discussing here is a testament to responsibility. Taking responsibility isn't always easy. Taking responsibility sometimes requires perseverance, and that is certainly the case with this legislative proposal. This bill has what you call a history. The previous bill for the merger of the municipalities of Bussum, Muiden, Naarden and Weesp could not count on a majority in this Chamber. However, the discussions aimed at strengthening the administrative power between the municipalities concerned and the province continued and these talks now culminate in the legislative proposal before us. Basically, the VVD thinks it's a sensible bill. The administrative power of the individual municipalities in the Gooi is currently lacking. Muiden's in particular is not enough. The municipality has only 6,500 inhabitants and has a hard-working but equally vulnerable civil service organisation. There are two outstanding issues involved in this proposed reclassification. These concern the Bloemendalerpolder and of course the financial claim to the municipality of Muiden as a result of the problems related to the Warrior land. I will deal with both issues in greater detail. When it comes to the Bloemendalerpolder, I can well follow that it is proposed to make this polder almost entirely Weesp. A look at the map of the area to be developed cannot, in my view, lead to any other conclusion. I refer, for example, to the broadening of the A1. The residential area is located all the way south of this motorway and honesty tells me that I do not consider it very likely that residents will not consider a motorway of about ten lanes as a natural barrier, even when it comes to school registration, for example. Do you see it in front of you: fathers and mothers who send their children over a ten-lane highway via a tunnel or a walkway, while schools are also located on the outskirts of the district, in Weesp? I can't see that. I don't see that happening. In short, the VVD concludes that it is perfectly logical that this bill includes a change of the border with Weesp. I'll be on the Warrior's claim. There is no misunderstanding: I understand very well that, certainly in the administration of the municipality of Bussum, restraint seems to prevail when it comes to the proposed merger with Muiden. The claim to the Warrior Factory has over the years assumed huge proportions, which, if they had occurred or would have occurred, would have been neither by carrying an independent Muiden nor by the new municipality. In any case, it could lead to substantial financial interventions in the budget of the new municipality. But Muiden has worked hard. Muiden has concluded a settlement agreement. From this I make it clear that the claim for damages of the owners of the Warrior Land is off the table. I would like to receive confirmation from the Minister. I would also like to see it confirmed once again that there is a safety net in the legislative proposal in the event of a breach of the agreement. In other words, if the claim were to be resurrected, the new municipality could never be called upon for more than the amount Muiden could have borne independently. Last week, the report of the Article 12 inspectors showed that Muiden can expect a substantial financial compensation from the so-called Article 12 procedure under the Financial Ratio Act, an amount of over EUR 10 million. And bear in mind, that is an amount that is borne by all the other municipalities in this country. Muiden himself must, of course, take strong measures. The usual step in an Article 12 procedure, increasing the ozb, is just a part. More action is needed. When the supplementary benefit is granted and the measures are implemented, Muiden grows towards a budget surplus and Muiden is delivered cleanly, exactly as previously envisaged. Of course, this surplus can only be achieved if a number of conditions are met. The first is the provision of the supplementary allowance. The formal decision to do so has yet to be taken, but it can no longer go wrong. Surely we can rely on the amount communicated, which is more than EUR 10 million? I'd like a commitment from the Minister. In addition, the municipality of Muiden, and subsequently its successor in law, the new municipality of Gooise Meren, has to guard that the cuts are actually being made. Part of the reform package is raising the ozb in Muiden, always unpleasant, but necessary given the situation. For my part, there is every confidence in the current and upcoming municipal administration to guard that. When it comes to the height of the ozb, I notice something. Bussum has a low rate compared to both Muiden and Naarden. Although it is constantly seen locally in conjunction with the Warrior's claim, the harmonisation process of tax rates is independent of that. Both in Muiden and in Naarden, I understand, the ozb rate will fall, while in Bussum it will rise slightly. Is there any way to prevent that? No, not as a result of the merger of the municipalities, but perhaps as a result of political choices to be made. This, too, is a challenge for local politics. There are two issues left for me that I want resolved with regard to that claim. The first concerns the Minister's argument that, when using the safety net, a claim which may be resurrected should not be blamed on the new municipality. What definition does the Minister use for "not accused"? I would be inclined to suggest gross negligence. I'd like a response from the Minister. The second concerns interest. It is now low, providing a financial advantage for the fulfilment of the determination agreement. This advantage could increase if interest rates were to fall further, but it is precisely the reverse situation that raises fears among the drivers in the region. The VVD would like to put something in here. Locally, there is a lot to steer and responsibility can be taken for itself, but the evolution of the interest rate will not work. He won't be sent from a city council. The VVD would like to cover this interest rate risk. I shall, if necessary, table a motion to this effect, including in order to obtain the opinion of the rest of the Chamber on this matter. I would like a response from the Minister to the question of how interest rate risk could possibly be dealt with. I'm rounding up. My contribution has largely focused on finance, but there is, of course, more. My colleague, Mr Van Oosten, has visited the region several times in preparation for this legislative proposal. He has become enthusiastic about the beautiful nature, especially given the extremely central location of the area. You can walk tens of kilometers there without running into buildings. There's woods, there's heaths, there's beach. He told me it was like he was on vacation all the time. Such an area deserves a strong and powerful municipal administration, a municipal administration that is not hindered by complex municipal boundaries and that is heard in the province house in Haarlem and if necessary here in The Hague. The inhabitants of Muiden, Naarden and Bussum are entitled to that. For this reason, too, this is a sensible legislative proposal, which deserves approval. It is a legislative proposal in which all concerned can and must assume their responsibilities, for themselves and for the others. That's exactly what this bill does. Sitting around and doing nothing after all these years is not an option, taking responsibility is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u5	Thank you, Mr Veldman, for your extremely personal contribution. Nothing tells me you're standing here for the first time. You've also stayed well within the time frame. That has to be said; it can be changed again in the future. I'm sure your father would have been very proud of you if he'd seen this. I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments so that everyone can be congratulated.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u6	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to express my full group's congratulations to Mr Veldman. We congratulate him on his fantastic maiden speech, which, as you said, President, was characterized by three things: a personal side, drive and commitment to the subjects that are going on in this Chamber. Chapeau! One reclassification isn't the other. Last week, the Chamber discussed the reclassification of Edam-Volendam with Zeevag. There is a municipality with more than 35,000 inhabitants. The expectations are and were great. If I recall correctly, the Chamber agreed with the unisono, along with the inhabitants and the administration of those municipalities, that the reclassification is a sensible move. There's a slightly different file on the table tonight. In Gooi and Vechtstreek was and is less united about reclassification. I understand that very well, because since 2005 there has been talk of ways to improve administrative power and for ten years the way in which is unclear. What is clear in all these ten years is that Muiden can't actually continue on his own. After many years of consultation, discussion, discussions and vision papers, a legislative proposal was presented in January 2010, which was declared controversial in this Chamber with the fall of the cabinet-Balkenende IV. All unfortunate coincidences of facts. Two years later, in 2012, the House of Representatives rejected the proposal. I remember it as yesterday and perhaps others too. Are there any such old-timers in the room? Mr Bosma was not there, I hear now. Only Mr Van Raak was there. It can happen as quickly as possible in politics, Mr President, but I still remember it as yesterday. In fact, the region was back to square one and the final picture is still not quite clear. However, a first step in the right direction is urgently needed. The unrest, uncertainty and lack of administrative power have taken long enough. The almost gordian knot seems to be cut through and also needs to be cut through once. We owe this to the inhabitants of Naarden, Bussum and Muiden. My group therefore believes, given this history and all the circumstances that we need to involve, that politics, the Second and the First Chamber, should really do its best to see if the merger is possible by 1 January 2016. Of course, we understand very well that there are still many questions for the inhabitants of the municipalities concerned. Many of these questions are justified questions, questions of concern, especially now that Muiden's financial position has proved to be so bad for so long. It is therefore very good that representatives from the Lower House were present in the municipality of Muiden for the hearing. There have been many good things which we have been able to incorporate into the report which we have been intimately confronted with by the Minister. He responded to that, too. I read in that report that the Minister has done his best to respond to the objections and criticisms of this merger. But the goal of all of us is that the municipality of Muiden cleanly enters the reclassification. Then we prevent the inhabitants of Naarden and Bussum, as part of the municipality of Gooise Meren, from suffering from the current problems in Muiden. This makes a big difference for the public support for the redeployment process. I read today in one of the letters that we recently received from worried Bussum people that it cannot be that the residents of Bussum will be faced with a 100% increase in the ozb after 2016, because this would be seen as a punishment for good and sound financial policy. I think that is a very legitimate and real point. I therefore invite the Minister to remove that point. Those residents should not be confronted with too high an increase in the ICI because there is a financial risk in a municipality with a project that they have never been able to put their finger on. With the article 12 report on Muiden, a few questions remain with the D66 Group. First of all, I wonder how the position of the Article 12 inspector that Muiden should structurally raise more ozb relates to the lifting of that municipality by 2016. It's hard for me to reconcile these things. Can the Minister explain this again? Is that position an empty shell or will that task end up with the municipality of Gooise Meren? What are the consequences of the objection that the municipality of Muiden wishes to make in a formal response? Secondly, I see that the lower interest rate is now being taken into account in adjusting the amount required by Muiden. My group does not seem certain that this advantage is going to arise entirely. In fact, if you look at the state of science, which the Minister must address, that is very uncertain. What risks do Muiden and the merged municipality run that interest charges will increase if the percentages increase again? How is the Minister going to mitigate or eliminate this risk, in order to prevent us from taking a positive decision on the merger in the near future, while this remains a sword of Damocles over the fusion community? My group does not want the latter. Thirdly, it is the task of the municipality of Muiden to increase its resistance through the use of silent reserves and further cuts. That is simply said, but what impact is this going to have on the merged municipality? Can the Minister respond to that? To sum up, this merger is necessary in the view of the D66 Group because of its administrative power. We're gonna need some force. In principle, therefore, we are in favour of this merger. There is something else, namely the whole history of it. The Chamber can look at itself, because the way in which the House of Representatives has dealt with this in the past did not always deserve the beauty prize. This means that today we have an expensive duty to ensure that this beautiful new merger municipality, if it is to come into being, does not have a huge financial gap. My group's commitment will therefore be to minimise all the financial risks that we can identify today with today's insight.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u7	I thought Mr Schouw asked a number of very valid questions, but his warning at the end was a little ominous. If Minister D66 does not meet enough, does that mean that D66 cannot take responsibility for this and cannot vote for this bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u8	Mrs Bruins Slot is a bit longer than today and of course knows the answer to this question. She's not really gonna keep her maiden speech here. The division of roles in this house is: we ask questions and the Minister has to give very good answers. If the answers are insufficient, then the D66 group will consider them. I think the same will apply to the CDA group. Mrs Bruins Slot may also ask another question. If she asks me if it's a run for me already, I say no, it's not a run for me. I think these things need to be taken care of.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u9	So you can see again that Mr Schouw is actually fantastic, because he has already asked my follow-up question: is it a race that has run? Mr Schouw says: no, it is not a race in progress.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u10	That was a comment and not a question, so Mr Schouw does not have to answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u11	It's a cliffhanger.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u12	Mr. Chairman. I should like to congratulate Mr Veldman on his maiden speech. He talked about taking responsibility by politicians. That is precisely where I want to go. I think it is time tonight for a sense of shame: shame with the leaders of the municipalities of Bussum, Naarden and Muiden and also shame with the leaders of the province of Noord-Holland. For ten years, a discussion has been held on the reclassification of the Throw. It started with a mess and ten years later it's still a mess. In March 2012, the House of Representatives stopped and returned a proposal for the merger of Weesp, Bussum, Naarden and Muiden. That's very special. reclassifications should mainly be made from the bottom up, from the municipalities. The province must supervise that process and the House of Representatives must assess that process. Three years ago, the Chamber was presented with a bad proposal, which could not count on support. The municipalities of Bussum, Naarden, Muiden and Weesp have been engaged for years in a good process of cooperation in all kinds of fields. This voluntary cooperation was brutally disrupted by a discussion about forced reclassification. This then led to poor relations and a distorted atmosphere between the municipalities concerned. In 2012 the question came to the House of Representatives whether she would like to make a decision. So we didn't. Partly due to the particularly energetic performance of then VVD-Kamerlid Van Beek, the whole reclassification problem was returned to the place where it belongs, namely the municipalities themselves. On behalf of the SP, I did make some suggestions. Naarden and Bussum; I could possibly imagine that. Weesp and Muiden; that also makes sense. But start with an analysis of why a reclassification is needed, why the route taken by the municipalities concerned of voluntary cooperation in the Throw was not much better. Today there is a new proposal for redeployment. Weesp is gone from there; Bussum, Naarden and Muiden remain. Can the Minister state and explain what has happened since 2012? Who initiated this proposal? How is the population involved? This new proposal, too, hurts me to say that the Council is not well thought out and cannot count on the approval of the municipalities. Over the last few days, no doubt like the other spokesmen, I have been overwhelmed with messages, phones, e-mails and letters, with alarming messages. I think we can at least conclude that the Bussum City Council is saying that it is not in agreement with this reclassification proposal. I've been in politics for 12 years. I have dealt with a lot of legislative proposals for reclassification in the First Chamber and in the Second Chamber. I've been through a lot of crazy too. However, I have never experienced that a reclassification has been motivated by a faulty real estate project: De Krijgsman, the KNSF site in Muiden with which the municipality has financially put its head in the noose. It's an idiot project with hundreds of millions of claims. Can the Minister confirm here that if it had not been for this crazy real estate project and Muiden had not fallen financially by the hoofs, there would have been no direct cause for reclassification either? It's not good to get married because you're in debt, like Muiden, and certainly not with a groom that's so unwilling, like Bussum. The new municipality will receive a dowry: the Bloemendalerpolder. However, Bussum remains terrified that she will still face debts from the bride in the future. I was reminded of the proudest municipality of Oss, which is constantly taking care of poor neighbours: in 2003 Ravenstein, in 2011 Lidt and in 2015 Geffen. All this was done by the proud municipality of Oss without complaining once. And it cost them something. That's the friendly and social Brabant. Tonight's different. Tonight we are in the Gooi, where money for Bussum is the only, if not the most important, argument. However, I also believe that we should not burden the new municipality with unknown debts, even when it comes to interest benefits that would or would not be met. That is why I shall be supporting a possible proposal from Mr Veldman, who has already announced it to the House if it really comes to fruition. A proposal for reclassification must meet a number of criteria. The first is local administrative support. That is not what this proposal is about right now, when I hear the sounds from Bussum. Then social support. We don't know. There has never been a referendum or any other referendum. When the drivers make such a mess of it, I'm always very curious what the people of the reclassification think. Municipal democracy is not by the rulers, but by the people. Why, so I ask the Minister, has they never been asked? Then there is the criterion of internal cohesion. I told you, I still like Naarden and Bussum. They also have an NS station together. The people in Muiden, however, have very little with Naarden and Bussum. They have more with Weesp, are focused on Weesp. There was also a lot of good cooperation with this municipality. If you take a look at the map alone, the minister will have done the same. You will see that any merger of Muiden and Weesp makes much more sense. Geographically alone. A very important criterion for the Minister is also sustainability. In any proposal for a reclassification, the Minister explains in detail that this proposal is really a solution to the problems, that this reclassification really is a response to the long-term problems. I don't think the Minister will do that tonight. This proposal for a reclassification is, in his view, not a sustainable solution at all, but a short-term solution. The reclassification that is being discussed here tonight in the House of Representatives is not yet completed or in the province and the Ministry is again busy thinking about new plans for reclassification, with Huizen, with Blaricum, with Eemnes, with Laren and with Hilversum, in all possible forms and all possible variants. It's to be ashamed of you, and that's what I do. That's what all the drivers in the Throw should do, and at the county hall and the ministry. When I was presented with this proposal, I thought: we sent the municipalities back in 2012 and gave them homework, and they didn't do that homework, or at least didn't do it right. My first reaction was: send back again. Let us let them do their homework again as long as it is good, as long as there is a decent and well-supported proposal here, which can count on the support of local administrators, who can rely above all on the support of the local population and, above all, on a solution to longer-term problems. However, I am also aware that in the Throw, redeployment fatigue has struck. Muiden is in financial trouble because of an idiot real estate project. In the meantime, preparations for this redeployment are already at a very advanced stage. In fact, there is already an official merger. That puts me in a dilemma, I'm just saying honestly. A reclassification is only possible if all the municipalities involved are behind it and enthusiastic about it, the directors are keen on it, the population is keen on it and everyone has the idea that this is a solution for the future. None of that is the case here. I am therefore very curious to see why the Minister thinks that we should say yes to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u13	Mr. Chairman. I congratulate Mr Veldman, who was immediately called to the high office to be a member of the Committee on the Interior. There are careers that go slower, but that you can play honorary division immediately is worth more than congratulations. The speed of circulation of the Home Affairs spokesmen of the VVD is beginning to take worrying forms. I hope that Mr Veldman will last longer than his predecessors. Nice speech, by the way, Mr Veldman, and thank you for coming. Last week's power failure caused a lot of annoyance, because you're stuck in a train or in an elevator or whatever happens to you. I saw a nice tweet pass by: now that the electricity is no longer working, this is the right time for the municipality of Bussum to enter Naarden and Muiden, because now there is no defense. I really liked him. This indicates it's a nightmare scenario we're in. It's a very nasty case. Mr Van Raak used the word "shame." At least it's not something to be happy about. In all kinds of combinations, mergers have been mentioned in recent years. It seemed to be going well in the ménage à trois that was proposed and which we are discussing this evening. However, then De Krijgsman came out of a box like a devil. This is, of course, a very annoying case. It was a gift from a VVD deputy who is now only marked with his initials. All in all, it's an incredibly difficult, annoying and painful file. No one knows how big the problem is. All kinds of estimates have been made and no one knows how it's gonna work out. Last week, we had a nice technical briefing by people from Home Affairs. I would like to thank you very much for that and at the end there was the question: what do we do when the claim is greater? Then the suggestion was made immediately that the ozb should only get a little higher. This is what we're talking about right now. It is an unmistakable adventure and it is very difficult to agree to it, especially since the main marital partner, Bussum, has now written a clear letter containing the words "unwanted" and "unacceptable." That leaves nothing to be desired for clarity. Our mailboxes do indeed hurt because of the things we get in, among other things from well-known Bussummers. I never knew there were so many clubs and organizations. There is a great deal of concern. The Party for Bussum is talking about a madman's ride. The best post I got was from the VVD group from Bussum. Under the heading "Why can't this merger continue like this?" is in brackets "expressed in prevailing sentiments." My party always gets the reproach of being populist, but when you start expressing yourself in prevailing sentiments, I think: who is the populist? However, this aside. It's a bright point. Residents of Naarden and Bussum are not allowed to take the fall for Muiden's real estate adventure. That's the portee of the whole story. That's what it's all about. Further on in the letter it says: the VVD in Bussum has been very constructive up until now.This is what one says himself, but sees himself in the suit sewn by the PvdA.I am not going to burn tonight and will soon be electoral decimated. "If you agree, the VVD will be decimated" is a rather strange message to my group leader Geert Wilders, who also received this letter. Well, what are we gonna come up with? Political ingenuity is not so thickly sown in Bussum, I think. I don't want to generalize, of course, even because my in-laws are from there. The VVD in Bussum is thus in the suit sewn by the PvdA and will soon be decimated electorally. It further states that disorderly local parties will win and take over the board. It is clear that civilisation is about to come to an end. Total chaos threatens in that quiet Throw with all those hockey-playing people and ladies with pearl necklaces, no, I'm not gonna generalize breakaway. It is clear that there is no basis for this merger. There isn't. That's not articulate anywhere. There has been no referendum, no popular speech. There are a lot of unrest, a lot of e-mails and a lot of noises. We had a very nice hearing. There is a great deal of concern. That concern is quite right, because no one knows how it should end with The Warrior. That fine hearing also showed that the official merger has already been completed. The municipalities are in fact already merged and we are here today to approve it. But these municipalities are already merged with the exception of the municipal councils, mayors and so on. What is threatening now is very painful, because these municipalities have already merged pro forma but the biggest partner, Bussum, says: this is unacceptable, we are not doing it! How the hell are you gonna do that? How's it going in these municipalities? After all, all these town halls have already been merged. They're already sitting together in the hallway and so on. And now the biggest party, Bussum, says we don't feel like it. I'm sorry to hear that for all those officials. Bussum is by far the largest partner with 32,000 inhabitants. The civil service is merged and the largest party says no. That's what I'd like to know from this minister. A lot of questions have already been asked. How does the Minister himself see the entire Warrior Adventure? What will happen to all the rates and taxes on the spot? And what are the guarantees?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u14	Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much for the opportunity to speak. I would like to begin by congratulating Mr Veldman on his wonderful maiden speech with a beautiful personal note. I'm doing that in two ways. I am allowed to do so on behalf of the Christian Union, as I am allowed to speak on behalf of the Christian Union. That will double my speaking time, I presume, Mr President. It has already been recalled: the discussion on the reclassification in the Toy has a long history. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has also contributed to this, but in the end it says: a discussion can take a long time and there can be a certain degree of reclassification fatigue, but this should not mean that the demands of a proper reclassification process and proper reclassification are being addressed. We must continue to make a careful assessment of this. In the documents I read a certain support for the reclassification, in which the three municipalities are transformed into the new municipality of Gooise Meren, but there are still a few decent bones in the throat. It's good to think about that. Part of that is in line with what colleagues have already mentioned. I will also raise a single new point. First of all, there is the financial settlement of the site of the former gunpowder factory. It has already been outlined: this is a real estate project that has run a huge risk. The lack of insight into the actual state of affairs and the real situation is a huge bump for many residents of the newly formed municipality. That is certainly understandable, as far as the SGP is concerned. We believe that the precise consequences of this need to be made clear to the partners in advance, ready-to-use, clear and clear. It can't be that cats are bought in bags. The minister says Muiden is getting cleaned up. That sounds a little too simple to us. Does this mean, in concrete terms, that the other municipalities will not in any way be affected by the financial problems that Muiden is currently facing? Is this problem, with the guarantee that it will be delivered clean, completely covered? I suspect that the answer is yes and so I ask: what guarantee is given? It is not just that one-off sum of 10 million that is being spent on it. Suppose there are claims that amount to about 100 million. Who's gonna pay for that? I think it is necessary to clarify and clarify this in advance. Moreover, nothing has yet been decided on the request of the municipality of Muiden to receive an additional benefit from the Gemeentefonds. This means that the impact of this legislative proposal on the other municipalities concerned cannot be properly assessed. The SGP Group therefore wonders whether it is a little premature to deal with this bill now. At what time exactly is there a decision to be taken on the granting of this supplementary benefit from the Municipal Fund to the municipality of Muiden? Why do we not wait for an orderly settlement of this decision before discussing the present proposal? I myself and colleagues have already referred to it: the other municipalities concerned do not have an understanding of the extent of the risks arising from Muiden's financial situation. There is a settlement agreement which, if I do have it, knows large secret parts, parts that the other municipalities cannot take note of. That is not an elegant way to "enter the wedding boat" to join the image of one of our colleagues. Who has a good insight into the secret parts? Is that the county? Is that the Empire? And who guarantees the municipalities of Bussum and Naarden, if they cannot understand the secret parts of that agreement, that the new municipality will not run any risks? Following this, the question is how things are going after reclassification with the ozb. This question naturally has the full attention of the municipalities of Bussum and Naarden. After the reclassification, there is a three-month transition path for the ozb. Afterwards, the rates will be aligned. The SGP wonders whether this situation is not so special that a longer period of growth should be considered. Now that it is very unclear what the impact on the level of municipal taxes is, an exception may be allowed to allow for a longer period of growth. Does the Minister agree with me? My second point is a lot shorter and concerns the border correction in respect of the Bloemendalerpolder, which would go to the municipality of Weesp. Geographically, that seems logical, but the SGP does wonder if it is useful to settle that right away in this bill. Shouldn't we first look at the financial consequences of the bill and the future of the municipality of Weesp, with over 18,000 inhabitants, before we decide whether this polder should go to the municipality of Weesp as a whole? The third point concerns the date of the elections. At the request of the three municipalities, the government proposes to hold elections in 2018. The reclassification shall take effect on 1 January 2016. This means that the new municipal council has more than two years to go. This is contrary to the recent amendment of the law, which states that this should not be done. The three municipalities can of course have other arguments, which have not been passed in the Lower House, but we wonder if it makes sense to leave that decision to the municipalities. What are the reasons for holding elections in 2018? Recently, we've been discussing a reclassification that skipped that election date. Nor is this particularly positive for the effectiveness of the new municipal administration in the event of such a major redeployment until the next elections. Is it wise to organise elections in such a short period of time in fact only two years? After all, the new elections are already in sight; you start in the second half of the game. In short, we do not think that the arguments for planning the election date in 2018 are convincing at the moment. We look forward to the further motivation and then we would like to be convinced that we are falling for that as a block. We are happy to challenge the Minister to do so. We look forward to the Minister's reply, including on the other points. We hope that it will be clear very quickly about the precise consequences for the municipalities concerned, for now and for the future. Otherwise, as far as we are concerned, I should like to say honestly that it is not justified to accept the proposal before us at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u15	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I too would like to congratulate Mr Veldman on his beautiful maiden speech, which appealed to me as a former military man. Thank you for that. The bill to merge the municipalities of Naarden, Muiden and Bussum has a long, too long history. Ever since the 2005 government measurement in Gooi and the Vechtstreek, there has been passionate discussion about cooperation and reclassification in all possible forms and combinations. All the time and energy invested by the municipalities concerned is only worthwhile if we can conclude this discussion with a wide-ranging solution. I very much hope that this debate can contribute to this. In the spring of 2012, the merger of Naarden, Muiden and Bussum ricocheted off the financial risks of the municipality of Muiden. I was there at the time, and I agree with those colleagues who can remember that: after all, we are not happy about it. At that time, as a sword of Damocles, Muiden's possible claim for damages was also hanging over his head in relation to the KSF site. Mr Van Beek's amendment received almost universal support. The Minister incorporated the amendment into the bill. According to the Minister, the municipality of Muiden will be delivered "clean" prior to the reclassification. This means that the municipality of Muiden will no longer have a significant structural budget deficit and a negative general reserve from 2016. But, as I say to the Minister, now it comes to the exegesis. As a spokesperson at the time, I do have a slightly different reminder of the 'clean' concept than the one which the Minister is now giving substance to. Since the previous plenary debate on the municipal reclassification in Gooi and Vechtstreek, a lot of work has been done. That's a compliment to the municipality of Muiden, because this municipality has concluded a settlement agreement with the KNSF "KNSF Vastgoed 2" and the operating company De Krijgsman and that's a special piece of work. This also created a different situation than when we discussed the Van Beek amendment three years ago. I would like to pass on a number of points, first of all that of reviving the claim. The increase in the supplementary allowance shall be based solely on the scenario that the determination agreement is not being implemented. But there are also other situations in which costs can be higher. Does this mean that an additional benefit is granted in all the other cases where the claim for damages is relived beyond the fault of the municipality of Gooise Meren? I have heard several colleagues ask this question in a different way. If there is a legal link, it is very important that the Minister makes an extremely clear statement on this matter. In the note following the report, the Minister made a number of commitments on culpability and the like. Does this mean that these commitments have full legal force? I am asking this so explicitly, because I would not want the resurrection of the claim issue to result in the interpretation of the Minister's replies in the note following the report. I'm getting to the ozb. My colleagues from D66 and the SGP have also addressed this. I think that they have asked good questions. Because of the financial consequences of the fixing agreement, the municipality of Muiden has invoked Article 12, with all its consequences. Let us conclude for a moment that the municipality of Muiden would not have entered into that Article 12 situation if it had not concluded that agreement. The municipality of Muiden has raised the ozb. That was right, otherwise the municipality could not be allowed in the Article 12 procedure, but does this also mean that the inhabitants of Muiden pay the fixing agreement with a structurally higher ozb and this also applies to the new municipality of Gooise Meren? And is that right? I heard that a little bit in the words of Mr Schouw and Mr Bishop. We also received the report of Article 12 inspectors two weeks ago. I have to say, it was a solid piece of work. The cost of the fixing agreement that the municipality of Muiden does not have to bear itself is calculated in the report at 9.3 million euros. Article 12 inspectors have nicely calculated us that with a one-off contribution from the Municipal Fund of 10.2 million euro, the municipality of Muiden starts to reorganise in a healthy way. However, I would like to return to a letter that we have received from the province of North Holland. What did that province write to us then? She wrote that the starting point of the Province and the Minister of BZK was that the financial consequences of the adoption agreement were fully reorganised through the Article 12 contribution. For the management and maintenance of the KNSF site, which is also mentioned in the article 12 report, the municipality of Muiden charges 3.2 million euros. In view of the principle of full repair, is it right that Article 12 inspectors should delete the amount of maintenance costs? Surely these costs stem directly from the determination agreement? Would it therefore not make much more sense for these costs to be covered by Article 12 procedure, given the above-mentioned principle that Muiden would be compensated for the fixing agreement because the municipality has taken a very important step towards withdrawing a claim of almost 300 million? I would like a clear answer from the Minister. My next point is risk interest. Mr Veldman rightly spoke of this in his contribution, because the cost of the interest subsidy is now much lower because of the lower interest rate. And those costs may well fall again if interest rates rise. My question to the Minister and to Mr Veldman is: doesn't it mean that the government is covering the risks of this potentially rising interest rate in this unique situation? The CDA would very much like the government to take care of this. I come to a number of general points. The formal decision on the application for Article 12 will be taken in June, if all is planned. Mr Bishop of the SGP rightly spoke about this. That is difficult for the decision-making process in the Chamber, but it would of course be hugely helpful if the Minister could say at the moment: don't worry, House of Representatives, we expect that the Article 12 procedure will eventually work out. In short, the CDA Group would like the Minister to clarify his interpretation of the concept of 'cleaning up'. This is because the basis for support depends on the municipal councils concerned. The way it is now, there is no support for it. We've had a cliff-and-ready letter from the municipality of Bussum. The municipality called it "under these conditions undesirable and unacceptable." I therefore conclude by appealing to the joint responsibility of the Minister and the province of North Holland. The house of Thorbecke is one whole. All floors in the house of Thorbecke, including the House of Representatives, have played a role in the absence of a good solution for the KNSF site. The leakage is not limited to the municipality of Muiden. I would remind the Minister that in 2002 it was precisely the then Minister of VROM who, together with Deputy States of North Holland, concluded an intention agreement on the KNSF. The KNSF would close its doors and, in return, the Minister of VROM and Deputy States would strive for an additional development to enable planning development. Actually, we are still working on that in 2015. As a result, the KNSF was able to recover the costs of decommissioning. We note that this effort has so far failed. At the same time, the CDA group sees that the municipality of Muiden has made an enormous effort over the past three years and has achieved a huge achievement by concluding the agreement. The municipality of Muiden has also made the necessary cuts. In doing so, it has so far averted the disaster in the form of a huge claim for damages for the State. In fact, the Minister, together with the province, is urged to remove the last piece of fuse from the powder keg.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u16	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I congratulate my new VVD colleague on his maiden speech. He kept a very beautiful, personal and passionate story. I wish him every success in the fine Committee on Home Affairs. I am speaking tonight on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. Mr President, I do not know whether that will give me extra speaking time, but we will see that. You say you're flexible; that's what I'm all for. The proposal on the merger of Naarden, Muiden and Bussum has a long history. As early as 2005, it was found that there was a problem in terms of administrative power and that something had to be done to keep municipalities able to carry out the tasks in a way that citizens can expect from a municipality. All possible variants for reclassification have been roughly changed in this file. In my group's view, this is why the dossier deserves absolutely no beauty prize. The people in the area haven't known what they're up to for years. Sometimes it seems like this file never ends. Just when you think all the noses are in the same direction, there's another kink in the cable. On one thing, the parties are in full agreement: it is high time that something finally happened and that a knot is being cut. That is exactly what my group believes should be done. I don't have the illusion that I'm gonna satisfy everyone tonight. Given the complexity of the dossier, I fear that this will simply not work. Tonight, let's just call the beast by the name. The file has become so complex by the KNSF site, or De Krijgsman. This area turned out to be explosive for several reasons. The municipality of Muiden is deeply in debt through agreements on the development of De Krijgsman. At first, there was the threat of a substantial claim for damages, the owners of the KNSF site claimed 376 million in damages, but ultimately the owners of the KNSF site and the municipality of Muiden concluded a settlement agreement and therefore the claim is first off the table. However, the threat of non-compliance with the determination agreement remains. Can the Minister in the Chamber confirm once again that action will be taken in accordance with the Van Beek amendment if this scenario occurs and this is not due to the municipality of Muiden, or the municipality of Gooise Meren respectively? This means that the decision on the supplementary benefit includes the provision that an obligation to pay compensation higher than that already paid will lead to an increase in the supplementary benefit. Fortunately, the determination agreement, which was finally agreed by the municipality in February 2014, does not leave a gap in the budget, as would be the case under the doom scenario of the claim for damages. However, I can imagine that the 29 million was a big hangover for the municipality of Muiden, because it became clear that Muiden was also unable to pay the amount of the fixing agreement and threatened to sink through the ice. In 2014, Muiden therefore requested an additional benefit on the basis of Article 12. The conclusion based on the examination of the Article 12 inspector is that the financial impact of the determination agreement is lower than estimated for the following reasons. There is a decline in interest rates. The city hasn't borrowed all the money yet. Part of that amount is already accounted for in 2013. For 8.4 million, cover can be found in Muiden's multiannual estimate. The inspector shall also provide for an additional payment of nine tonnes for, inter alia, late maintenance of roads. There is therefore an additional benefit from the Municipal Fund, which is set at 10.2 million. On the basis of the inspector's proposal, the city council of Muiden sends a letter to the Chamber that the council cannot agree with the results of the investigation. The city council is of the opinion that Muiden will not be delivered cleanly. If you're all starting something together, the PvdA can very well imagine that you're actually hoping to do it with a clean slate. But that will not be the case for all three municipalities. All three municipalities have made choices that will affect the spending pattern of the new municipality. As far as the PvdA is concerned, "Clean" means that Muiden has a burden that Muiden can reasonably bear. An additional payment from the Municipal Fund under Article 12 is an emergency procedure that helps municipalities not to sink through the ice. The Municipal Fund is of all the municipalities together. A higher benefit to one municipality leads to lower general benefits to all other municipalities. As far as the PvdA is concerned, this must be handled neatly and carefully, both in terms of the municipality that is financially in difficulty and in terms of the other municipalities that jointly bear the burden. Article 12 is therefore really an emergency brake; an emergency brake with many conditions. The PvdA also sees a catch. We would find it unreasonable if the new municipality were to bear that risk. The interest rate is now low. But what happens if the interest rate goes up anyway? We would like to have this uncertainty covered. Mr Veldman has announced a possible motion on this matter for the second term. Finally, I come to the border correction in the Bloemendalerpolder, which adds the residential area that is being developed there to the municipality of Weesp.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u17	Mrs. Fokke says that the municipality of Muiden must realize that her benefit affects other municipalities. Can't we turn it around, too? It is Muiden's behaviour that has ensured that we do not end up in the situation that 270 million claims of damage also reach all Dutch municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u18	I do not agree with Mrs Bruins Slot and I did not agree with her contribution either. I would have agreed with her input if she had been here as a city council member of one of the three municipalities. Then I'd be working my ass off, too, and I'd want it to go to zero. Apart from the fact that the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Finance may be managers of the Municipal Fund, we in the Lower House also have the task of ensuring that as little money as possible from the Municipal Fund is used for an Article 12 procedure. That's exactly what's happening here. Muiden has worked hard; all compliments to Muiden. In an article 12 procedure you make certain choices. For example, it was said that the greening provision might also be covered by Article 12, but it also looks at the burden that Muiden himself can bear. On the question of greening, for example, according to the Labour Party, the Article 12 inspector has rightly said that you can put it away in the multiannual budget. What choices the new municipality makes is up to the municipality itself, whether it increases the ozb or does other business.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u19	As a Member of the House of Representatives, I could of course say that very well, because all the inhabitants of the Netherlands pay taxes to make municipalities and so on work. This is partly determined by the state taxes. I think it is good that the municipality has managed to take a step in something that was pushed through here two years ago as a hot potato. I am always in favour of economy, but it must be economical in reason. Isn't that how Mrs. Fokke sees it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u20	I'm all for economy and reason. That is precisely why I am very pleased that the Article 12 inspector has delivered a good report. When I read that report, I say precisely that I am not entirely happy with what it says about interest rate developments. There's too much risk in that. I also say that we in the House of Representatives must be careful to ensure that this is a precedent. If we agree today, the municipality of Delft or the municipality of Lansingerland will be on the doorstep tomorrow. I believe that we as the House of Representatives should be there and say ourselves: what is not possible under Article 12 is not possible under Article 12.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u21	Suddenly I was thinking about the city of Delft. I hope she won't be on the sidewalk anytime soon. I have a question for Mrs. Fokke. Can it estimate the financial risks to the new municipality if the worst case scenario for the gunpowder plant occurs?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u22	This means: if the fixing agreement still blows up, we are still talking about the KNSF site, and there may still be a claim for damages, in accordance with earlier terms. No one knows that, simply because a lot has already been said in the file about this claim for damages. One time it's maximized to nearly 400 million. And I think the municipality of Muiden has said in the past: there could be no claim for damages at all. I think coffee is the worst thing we can do here in the House of Representatives. We don't know. We know, however, that the Minister said at an early stage, when he answered the written questions, I only asked for confirmation: if that fixing agreement were to collapse, we would be back to square one and we would again be discussing a claim for damages, then I would be prepared to act in accordance with the Van Beek amendment. I think that is only reasonable, because that amendment was dealt with precisely in the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u23	There is one jumping point in this whole file, namely: what financial risk is involved in the worst scenario? I think Mrs. Fokke said it well. She said, as I say for the better at home: if everything goes well, that financial risk will be at least €0 and if everything goes badly, but that is also guesswork..................................................................................................................................................................................... We should not speculate on that with each other, because we do not know that. The only thing we have to say here is: if the worst scenario were to occur, the Empire, the province and the municipality would have to work together to find a solution. Does the Labour Party agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u24	That is precisely what the written answer already says. I thought it was important that it should not only be there, but that we should also be able to say this to each other in plenary. The Minister said this would happen. That is also exactly in line with the agreement in the Van Beek amendment. I think we can all agree on that, unless D66 disagrees. But then this group has to amend or table a motion and say that it does not agree with the written reply by the Minister. Then we have another debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u25	Mr Schouw has an enlightening question. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u26	Mrs. Fokke's getting a little pissed off. I don't understand. I am simply trying to do it in normal human language and not hide behind the Van Beek amendment, which is also a bit of abracadabra in language. I just wanted to say that if there's a financial problem in the new municipality right away that has to do with that nasty file of the gunpowder factory, then the municipality isn't just going to solve it, it's going to solve the Empire and the province. If we pronounce that with each other, we'll be there. That is my enlightening appeal to Mrs Fokke.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u27	I can start playing in the lyrics myself, but therefore it seemed to me most careful if I were to quote quite technically what was in the answer. Because that is the only thing that does justice to it, and that is where it stands very purely and very legally. I can then express it in my own words, but I think this does justice to all parties. The fact that the claim for damages is covered is an important part of everything we're talking about today. That's why I put it so technically. But it was so literal in the written answer. I'll continue with the Bloemendalerpolder. Muiden, Bussum and Naarden considered that the development of this area could be tackled more rapidly if they did so. They were also concerned about the reimbursement of the costs incurred by the municipality of Muiden for the Bloemendalerpolder. The Minister clearly explains why the municipality of Weesp should be able to develop the entire project. Moreover, the district would connect to the core of Weesp and it would be undesirable to drop one district in two municipalities. We support the border correction, but the compensation for the costs incurred must be reasonable. When determining the Article 12 contribution, the compensation to Muiden of €295.000 was taken into account. Under the Law on General Rules, the province has the legal power to finally determine the set-off on the basis of the results of the good consultation we expect between the municipalities concerned. Can the Minister undertake to draw the province's attention to the fact that this set-off between the two municipalities will be established as soon as possible and that the calculation of the Article 12 inspector will be taken as the starting point? I'm rounding up. It does not have the beauty prize and certainly not everyone is satisfied, but the urgency in the area is high. It must not be the case that tonight we are sending parties with a rug in the reeds again. It's time to cut the buttons. As far as my group is concerned, that is going to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u28	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to join in congratulating Mr Veldman on his impressive maiden speech! As we said in professorial appointments, may the position offer you the satisfaction you expect. I assume, heard the speech, that this will certainly be the case. We are talking about a reclassification proposal on which many issues have been raised. I thought I'd do it like this. I start with a brief introduction and then I answer the questions in three parts. I shall begin with the classification as such, a single point about its history and its border course. Next, I will deal with the main issue that is at issue today: the resolution of the issue of the KNSF area and its consequences for the merging municipalities. I must correct myself: not having any consequences for the merging municipalities. I will conclude with a third block, consisting of the remaining issues, including Mr Bishop's point on whether or not to hold reclassification elections. I will keep my introduction as brief as possible. It is indeed an issue with a long history; several Members have recalled it in the first term. If this proposal is adopted, the municipality of Gooise Meren will have 55,000 inhabitants and a budget of 123 million euros annually. The merger of Bussum, Muiden and Naarden to the new municipality of Gooise Meren is supported by the municipalities concerned, but they do have some concerns about the impact of Muiden's financial problems on the new municipality. The usual procedure for an Article 12 application simplifies the processing of the application and the handling of this bill. It happens all the time. The starting point is that I shall explain in such a way that this is also the case here, that the municipality is delivered clean before the date of the reclassification. That's what happens to Muiden. In this way, in response to the questions put by Mrs Bruins Slot and others, I will address exactly what 'cleaning up' means. All in all, it is not a standard reclassification, but it is a reclassification that is needed and what the municipalities are waiting for. The municipalities support the merger and the time of the merger, as evidenced by the letter recently sent by the three municipal councils to the Chamber on 9 February this year. Among other things, they write: "The administrative organisation of our region Gooi and Vechtstreek has been discussed for many years now. It is high time that we took a decision on this. We are convinced that a combination of the municipalities of Bussum, Naarden and Muiden can benefit the region's strength, the service of our inhabitants and the strengthening of local democracy. This requires that the new municipality can make a good start, both administratively and financially." This reflects the essence of the discussion on the merger: it is desirable and supported by the municipalities concerned. In reply to Mr Van Raak's question, I can say that this merger would also have taken place if Muiden did not deal with the KNSF area, because this reclassification results from an analysis of administrative power in the region.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u29	Mr Van Raak had not yet asked a question, but that question was answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u30	There's one more question, Mr. Chairman. A mess is a mess! If there are letters coming, then those letters are also a mess. If there is a letter from the municipal councils saying that they are very much in agreement with the proposal, then there will be another letter from a municipality that says that it does not agree with the proposal at all. The letters sent by the municipalities cannot therefore be the guide, because they are quite different in nature.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u31	I am certainly not taking over the word 'clutter', but I was going to say later that Mr Van Raak's observation that this is the strangest reclassification procedure he has experienced, to the extent that I can confirm that this is a special reclassification procedure. I must add that I appreciate that it has come to a new administrative perspective with the municipalities for Gooi and Vechtstreek and that the province has played a decisive role in this. That is, of course, a task for the province, but I am no less grateful to the province for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u32	Bussum City Council says he doesn't agree with the reclassification at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u33	That's not right. I just quoted from a letter from the three municipalities at the beginning of this year, a month or two ago. However, I would like to point out that there are hesitations about the finances. Before I get there, I will go into it specifically in a moment's time. I would like to point out that for me there is agreement between the municipalities on the desirability of the merger as such. If a municipality in the view of the finish says that it would actually want a million more on top of it and then would really agree but otherwise not, that is not necessarily a reason to say that the support is falling away. The nature of this wish must simply be taken into account in substance and seriously. Does that need support or not? We can talk about this with each other, but that does not necessarily mean that you have a discussion of the basis. In my opinion, the debate on the basis of the idea that the largest merger municipality in February of this year, for example, should have said: we do not feel that this reclassification is necessary, we think that it is unwise, we want to work together with another municipality or we do not want to reorganise it at all. Then there will indeed be another situation. The history has already been remembered by the members in the first term. A previous proposal was rejected. It's been under discussion for ten years. It is therefore a good thing that I am trying to do so in the contributions made by the various Members in order to find a solution now. In February 2013, I asked the province of Noord-Holland to give advice on the administrative future of Muiden and Weesp, both in the short term and looking at the long term. The municipalities and the province have worked hard on this, with a view to a new administrative perspective for all municipalities; much appreciation to all for that. The proposal we are discussing is indeed on one part different from a previous proposal. It's new to not let Weesp be part of the merger. For Weesp, a new perspective has emerged through the collaboration with Wijdemeren and Stichtse Vecht. This means that the three municipalities can now merge.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u34	Before we move on to the future, I would like to go back to the past. In the past, the four municipalities, besides Bussum, Naarden and Muiden, also Weesp, as well as other municipalities in the Gooi, have decided to cooperate a lot on a voluntary basis. They have always done so, until a discussion on forced reclassification started from the top from 2005. This has led to a breakdown of relations. We have seen this in other reclassifications in the past, very often; I remember, for example, Goeree-Overflakkee. Municipalities are in a process of cooperation and then suddenly there is a discussion about forced reclassification. If we had given these municipalities the opportunity to work together more, I think they would have solved all kinds of practical problems in practice. Even we can't rule out the fact that these municipalities had thought in the long run: we're doing so much together now, let's go and meet together. But isn't the discussion from above about forced reclassification one of the reasons that it's become such a mess and still a mess?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u35	It is high time that buttons were cut. "We are convinced that the combination of the municipalities of Bussum, Naarden and Muiden can contribute to the region's impact, to the provision of services for our inhabitants and to the strengthening of local democracy." I quote that from a letter from the three municipalities. That is not, therefore, imposed from above, it is the view of those municipalities. I would add as my own view that where official cooperation is the case for many years, it is wise to consider whether this should not have an impact on the administrative level as well. Otherwise, of course, you will have a democratic deficit, with three different elected boards, all of which control the same administrative apparatus. That will also have been a consideration for the three municipalities to say that this knot must now be cut administratively. I agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u36	What we're talking about tonight isn't the only mess and the only reclassification. We have had many reclassifications and there may still be some. My main question was to know: how are we going to do this? How are we going to do this in the future? When municipalities decide to work together on certain points, we always see that there is always a province somewhere called administrative pride, cocktail behavior, which says: no, you have to reorganise. Shouldn't we get rid of that? Should we not even say: when it comes to the administration of a local government, put the ball with the municipalities, and do you stop interfering with that as a province?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u37	It would not do justice to the role of the province of North Holland if I answered this question in the affirmative. I asked the province, after an earlier bill has been stranded here in the Chamber, to take on the role of director and to come up with a proposal in which the merger of these municipalities is seen in the light of what remains. It is quite easy to say that Naarden and Bussum are already against each other and that you then have a beautiful municipality, if you don't also have a view of what should happen in the rest of Gooi and Vechtstreek. The province has come up with a proposal which, among other things, means that there is a good perspective for Weesp to get a sustainable position in the merger that has just been mentioned. Then there is every reason to bring these three municipalities together. Once again, less than two months ago, a letter showed that the governments of the three municipalities endorse this principle.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u38	Yes, the Minister is right; the letter of 9 February is just there. However, there is also a letter dated 27 March. And March comes after February. I quote from that letter from the entire city council. "On the basis of the bill, the Minister's replies and the report of the Article 12 inspector, we come to the unanimous conclusion that the proposed reclassification for the municipality of Bussum is undesirable and unacceptable in this way." That seems very clear to me: 'unanimous', 'unwanted and unacceptable'. Then the Minister cannot say: yes, but I also have an old letter from February, and do I take it to heart? What's written there is hard, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u39	In fact, I have already answered that question. Where acceptance is considered, it is important to endorse the merger as a matter of principle. The answer to that question was a month and a half ago: yes. A letter has then been sent in which one writes: in fact, we want to have a greater contribution from the Municipal Fund to the other 390 municipalities. Of this, I say: that is subject two for me; we will shortly have to discuss with each other the extent to which that wish is justified. That is, of course, part of the proposal that is on the table. However, I think that we should separate that from the reclassification proposal as such.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u40	I don't quite get it. Is the Minister saying that it's nice that the city council unanimously speaks of "unwanted and unacceptable" but that he's just gonna move some money back and forth and that they're gonna get over it? So the minister says it's just something in the negotiations? It happens all the time. Something like this happens all the time. Is this how I'm supposed to read that letter from Bussum?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u41	It's actually the other way around. The municipalities said in February that they are in favour of this merger and that they want the decision to be taken now. A month later they said that they said that they actually want an extra X million and that they disagree otherwise. It seems to me that we need to weigh up the arguments for this. I have heard a number of preconditions from several spokesmen in the first period. I'll deal with that in a moment. Then it is up to the Chamber to put that weighting in place in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u42	Mr Schouw is wandering along the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u43	I actually did that to do a little more justice to the letter from the Bussum City Council from which Mr Bosma was kind enough to quote selectively. The last sentence of that letter is: In short, there must be a solution to the residual debt and interest rate risk mentioned. Does the Minister agree with me that this sentence opens the door to the support of the municipality of Bussum? Am I getting that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u44	I would like to thank Mr Schouw for this addition. I will return to the issue of interest rate risk in a moment. I think Mr Schouw sees it well. Mr. Chairman. I will conclude my introduction and deal with the issue of aggregation as such. First of all, the variant with Weesp. I just said something about it. A merger of Muiden and Weesp would give rise to a vulnerable municipality, as was the analysis, with limited administrative power and limited sustainability. That variant was therefore not chosen. There has been talk of border crossings before. I agree with what Mr Veldman said about this in his first term. If you take the map, it is also logical that the border is adjusted by this border correction. The Bloemendalerpolder then falls under one municipality, the municipality on which one is also designated for all amenities, given also the natural barrier that the A1 creates there. I think that's a good choice. I also think it would be a good idea to make this choice now in order to bring about this new merger municipality. I have already answered Mr Van Raak's question as to whether the merger would have been necessary even without the KNSF issue. In the event of interruption, we have already looked back briefly at history. I agree with everyone who says that it does not deserve a beauty prize and that many parties have played a role in it. However, that does not relieve us of the duty to look ahead and do what should happen. Finally, with regard to the procedure, Mr Bosma pointed out that the merger had already been carried out. He asks how that is possible and how it is. The municipalities have not taken irreversible decisions in the preparations. That is not possible either, because a reclassification is ultimately a legislative proposal, which must also be adopted by the First Chamber. For example, the plans for housing the new organisation will not be implemented until the bill has been passed by the Chambers. However, the municipalities make timely preparations, so that the new municipality can get off to a good start if a legislative proposal is adopted. This is also in line with the state policy and the ARHI Act, which asks the municipalities to actively prepare for a new municipality and to make provision for it in good time, as stated in Article 79. This is also why, in the year preceding the date of reclassification, the municipalities receive a benefit from the Municipal Fund for costs related to the reclassification, the so-called friction costs. This leads me to recall, before I get to the KNSF issue, that the merger as such also involves a reclassification measure of EUR 8 million over a four-year period. I have gone up because previous discussions in the Chamber have shown that dealing with friction costs is important to ensure that mergers are possible, even where there is a desire to merge for other reasons. I am going to go into more detail about the KNSF issue, but I would like to do so in the light of the fact that the budget of the municipalities of Muiden, Naarden and Bussum together is EUR 123 million per year and that, in the coming years, the reclassification measure, albeit temporarily up to EUR 8 million, will be paid out over a period of four years. I now turn to the whole issue of the KNSF site. At first it seemed much bigger, dramatic. Interest rates make a huge difference. When I bought my first house a long time ago, interest rates were 10% or 12%. At such a rate, it is a very different matter than at present. On another occasion, the conclusions of the inspector have already been explained, but it may be good to summarize them here. The Article 12 inspector concluded that the cost of the determination agreement would eventually amount to 19.5 million. There are also some other financial problems of the municipality of Muiden. The total amount to be covered is 18.6 million, of course once. According to the inspector, Muiden can make additional efforts of 8.4 million, requiring an additional payment of 10.2 million to clean up the municipality. The contribution to be made by the municipality of Muiden is 0.7 million or 7 tonnes per year, if this were to be completed by cutting costs. According to the article 12-inspector, this coverage can be found by a mission on the municipality, which the municipality of Muiden could also realize independently.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u45	I did have another question about that. The letter from the province of a time ago shows that the intention was actually to make the Article 12 procedure not as general as it is now, but only to limit it to the determination agreement. Why did the Minister take a different approach?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u46	The Article 12 procedure shall be supplemented by a collective agreement. All other citizens of the Netherlands pay through their IZB to make the municipality Muiden financially healthy again in this case. According to the standard procedure in accordance with Article 12, this is a prerequisite that the municipality must first make its own effort, to the extent reasonably possible. The Article 12 inspector has noted that with a cut of 0.7 million tonnes, which is 5% in Muiden's 14 million budget, it is not exorbitantly possible to ensure that it is delivered cleanly. This means that there is a mission for the municipality of Muiden. It will continue to exist even after the merger, but that is no different than a reservation or a mandate that may also exist with other municipalities in the case of mergers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u47	However, I cannot reconcile the words of the Minister with what the province has written to us. The approach of the Article 12 procedure was that only the consequences of the adoption agreement would be taken into account in the Article 12 pathway. The Minister's other approach creates the risk that the Article 12 benefit will be lower, resulting in a higher own contribution for the municipality of Muiden and its successor in law, the new municipality. Actually, that situation has arisen now. Because the Minister has chosen a different approach if I read this letter correctly, the starting point of the province and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs were to make a lower contribution to Muiden. Why did the Minister choose that other approach, other than what he said to the province?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u48	I don't recognize how I said that to the county. I do justice to the Article 12 procedure. A municipality must first make its own contribution to solving the problem, after which the rest of the problem is contributed from the general resources, by all the other inhabitants of the Netherlands. The Article 12 inspector has established that this can be done. This leads to a substantial contribution from the general budget, i.e. 10.2 million. Then there is a problem that the municipality of Muiden can deal with as such. Once this has been done, the municipality can then be merged and delivered cleanly. Then there are the points that Mrs Bruins Slot has also made. I'll be back on my own in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u49	I suggest that the Minister continue his speech. Then you can come back to it later, Mrs Bruins Slot.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u50	Let me start by answering a few of Mr Veldman's questions, which have also been put by other speakers. Mr Veldman asked for confirmation that the claims for damages of the owners of the KNSF site in the past should be removed. I can confirm that. In principle, the determination agreement of 7 March 2014 no longer addresses a dispute or claims for damages between the municipality of Muiden and the owners of the site. It is agreed that Muiden and the owners of the KNSF site will waive all agreements of the past, if the settlement agreement is complied with. I'm assuming that's just what happens. After all, Muiden, the owners of the site and the developer have every interest in meeting the commitments made. The Council of Muiden has also already agreed to the settlement agreement, the draft destination plan and the ambition document for the De Krijgsman project. In response to Mr Veldman's follow-up question, I would like to confirm once again that a safety net is included in the legislative proposal in the event of non-compliance with the agreement. In other words, if that claim were to be resurrected, the new municipality could never be called upon for more than the amount Muiden could have borne independently. That is also in line with the Van Beek amendment. Mr Veldman added that this formal decision still needs to be taken, and that will not go wrong anymore. He wanted a commitment from the minister. I need to be right in there. Strictly speaking, there is still a procedure to be followed. Before the formal decision will be taken by the fund managers, i.e. by the Minister of Finance and myself, the municipalities and the province will still have the opportunity to respond to the article 12 report of the inspector. The Council will then deliver an opinion on financial relations. The Finance Minister and I are expected to be able to take the decision in mid-2015. Indeed, it can no longer go wrong, because the report of the Article 12 inspector shows that Muiden can be delivered cleanly. Quite precisely, Mr Veldman asked what "blammability" means when retabled a claim for damages. It is always difficult to state exactly all eventualities, but in the case of culpability I think of intent or gross negligence. Moreover, there is no indication that Muiden will not comply with the fixing agreement. Muiden also has every interest in preventing new conflicts, as is all the other parties to this agreement. Mrs Bruins Slot asked about the legal status of the commitment. That's a commitment I make to the Chamber. I will deal with it myself, together with the Minister for Finance, because we are finally deciding on the supplementary allowance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u51	Let me get this straight. If the determination agreement cannot be complied with, the financial consequences for the new municipality can never be more detrimental than those for the current municipality of Muiden. I heard the Minister mention a calculation of the deficit at the moment. That is 18 million, and after an own contribution finally subsidised 10 million. Is it about that amount, about the $10 million? Or is it the 18 million? What are the amounts involved? In fact, there have been completely different amounts of money in this whole conflict. It is therefore of some importance to know what the amount would be if the agreement could not be observed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u52	I have just quoted, I do not want to mention any new amounts which, according to Article 12 inspector, is 18.6 million, of which the municipality of Muiden can make an effort of 8.4 million. As a result, an additional payment of 10.2 million is needed to clean up the municipality. A safety net has been added to that in the bill. Should it work out differently, beyond the fault of the municipality of Muiden, it will be compensated from the supplementary benefit. I would like to stress once again that I do not have a tree in the garden. Everything that comes out of the supplementary benefit is, of course, brought together by all the municipalities of the Netherlands. There is therefore a good reason to remain prudent with commitments on this point and to allow the advice of the Article 12 inspector to lead. By the way, I do have a tree in the garden.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u53	It's just not money or Donald Duckboompje, I'm afraid.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u54	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u55	This amount shall be determined on the basis of that determination agreement. The question, however, is precisely the case where the determination agreement cannot be complied with and a financial claim arises. What happens then? What amount are we talking about, maximum?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u56	Of course, that cannot be established. For that, I'm recording a safety net in the bill. However, it would be unwise to speak about this again now. I also assume that this will not be the case. I think it is in the interests of everyone that it should be implemented in accordance with this agreement. Again, as long as it does not work out differently, as long as it is not reproachable to the municipality of Muiden, that goes without saying, the Gemeentefonds guarantees.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u57	I hear the Bishop say "clear," but it's not clear to me yet. I think it is a very relevant question. In the worst scenario, this minister says, the Empire is a safety net, but the costs that the municipality of Muiden could bear if it had remained independent are deducted. Mr Bishop is quite right to ask what we are talking about, whether we are talking about 1 million, 5 million, 10 million or 20 million. It helps, I think, if the Minister gives an indication of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u58	I'll try again. What if there was no merger? Then the article 12 inspector would have gone to Muiden and said: I see a problem of a total of 18.6 million, which the municipality of Muiden cannot bear on its own; I note that the additional allowance requires 10.2 million from the Empire and that, therefore, 8.4 million has to be paid by the municipality of Muiden. I note, as the Article 12 inspector says, that this is portable. I can imagine that, by the way. Now I'm speaking on my own behalf. It would be a seven-tonne cut on an annual budget of 14 million if this were to be done by means of a cut. I can imagine. Of course, it is never comfortable, but I can imagine that such austerity is bearable. By the way, it's up to the municipality itself. One can also fill that out by increasing the ozb. The inspector says that he doesn't have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u59	I'm still gonna try to find out if I've got an answer to my question. Everyone is worried about what happens in the worst scenario, if it goes completely wrong with that fixing agreement and a maximum claim of 400 million comes on the table. We all don't know, but that's suggested. That's why people are worried. What happens in that case is, by analogy with the Van Beek amendment, I understand from the Minister that the Empire, together with the province of Noord-Holland, will come up with a solution and then deduct the amount that the municipality of Muiden could have borne. Is this reasoning correct? Do I see it correctly that the amount that the municipality of Muiden could carry is around 8 million?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u60	Yes, Mr Schouw is well aware of that. The inspector has established that the capacity of the municipality of Muiden is 8.4 million. He has said that the municipality of Muiden can accomplish this by means of its own mission. In the theoretical case, as far as I am concerned, that the contract of employment would be higher than it is now, this has no consequences for the capacity of the municipality of Muiden as determined by the inspector. It wouldn't suddenly increase. From amount X the 8.4 million euros should indeed be deducted as something that the municipality of Muiden can solve independently. There is then a problem for which, with the reservations I have just made, the supplementary benefit would provide the solution. The short answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u61	Then I'm gonna ask you one more time to make sure I understand. Whatever happens, the account that Muiden now has to pay on the basis of this concept article 12 report, that's the only one? It's not gonna be anymore, even though the claim is relived?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u62	Yeah, unless it's Muiden's fault. However, this does not seem to me to be interrupting, and I certainly do not expect that to be the case. This has already been the case in the case of interruption. Mr Bishop's question as to what it means to achieve clean results has already been discussed. The same applies to Mrs Bruins Slot's question, which she repeated just now in the event of interruption. I would have come back to that very clearly, but it has been answered. I have already answered the question of legal power. It is ultimately a decision of the fund managers, the Minister of Finance and the Minister of BZK. In this way we have the issues of interest rate risk, IZB and the level of maintenance. Maybe just a few moments before the adoption agreement, on which Mr Bishop asked a question. Of course Muiden himself has insight into the fixing agreement. Of course, the Article 12 inspector also had access to this information. In his article 12 report, he takes full account of the financial part of the settlement agreement on De Krijgsman. This also applies to the proposal to clean up the Article 12 procedure, which also calls for an effort from the municipality of Muiden. In the private-law agreement, it was agreed that parts of this would remain secret. We can base this on the inspector's authority. I will continue with the question of what happens after the merger. Three municipalities are merging, which have a budget that varies in size. Muiden has a budget of 14 million, Naarden of 34 million and Bussum is by far the largest fusion partner of 75 million. Together they come to a budget of 123 million. What is more common and also now, is that tax rates vary in the municipalities. This needs to be settled, because in the end the new municipality will have to set a single level of taxation. At the moment, expressed in relation to the average ozb rate of the whole country, Muiden is at 120%, Naarden at 80% and Bussum at 40%. After a merger, it is always up to the city council of the merged municipality to set that level and ensure that the expenditure is covered by the revenue. This must be done within three months, because it must apply retroactively. I've taken a look at what it would mean for the average ozb rate and therefore for the final ozb rate if that municipality decided to keep the expenditure level the same after the merger as before. That rate would then be 62%. That would mean a substantial reduction in the rate for Muiden. It would mean a reduction in the rate for Naarden. It would inevitably mean a certain increase in the tariff for Bussum, from 40% to 62%. That is not the result, I stress, of the settlement of the KNSF case, but of the fact that a tariff should ultimately be fixed if municipalities with different rates form one municipality. Again, I have calculated what would happen if there were nothing to change the level of provision, but it is up to the merging municipalities to say: gosh, as they do in Bussum, we could do that in the Naarden and Muiden regions; then we can get off with a lower ozb and lower amenities. But one can do it differently. That is the autonomy of the merged municipality in the end. Then I come to the question of interest rate risk. First of all, let me get a little off the hook. The usual practice is that the Article 12 inspector takes a lead date, on which he charts and settles the whole case. That reference date shall be 1 January 2015. It is therefore also based on the interest rate on 1 January 2015. On that basis, the total picture is made. If the interest rate is lower or lower, it is a benefit or disadvantage for the merged municipality. That's the standard procedure. I would add two things to that. Firstly, Muiden could already decide to take up that loan and thus cover the interest rate risk. This choice must always be made by local authorities themselves. Secondly, the interest rate is currently lower than when the Article 12 inspector set his reference date. So if there's already a shift, there's an advantage right now. That advantage belongs to the municipality of Muiden and immediately to the municipality of Gooise Meren. That's the standard procedure. That would be my answer, too. At the same time, I listened carefully to Mr Veldman, Mrs Fokke, Mr Schouw and Mrs Bruins Slot. They stress that the municipality of Muiden has made an exceptionally great effort in recent years. I'd like to confirm that, too. It would be undesirable, given all the problems, if a sudden, unexpected, large increase in interest rates would come to the detriment of the merged municipality. If the Chamber were to ask me to do so, it was already announced that a motion would cover and cover that interest rate risk, then I will do so and I think that under these circumstances it is also justified to do so. That also fits in with what Mr Schouw just quoted as a point that the municipality of Bussum has raised. I can imagine that. Then there is Mrs Bruins Slot's question about the maintenance level of the KNSF site. The private law agreement stipulates that maintenance would be at a high level. Then we are talking about the greening system as it would be applied there. The inspector's examination shows that this level of maintenance is significantly higher than the standard level in the municipal fund. The question then is whether it is reasonable to make all the municipalities of the Netherlands contribute to that high level of appeal and maintenance. After all, all the other municipalities are helping. His conclusion is that that is no longer justifiable. He also concludes that it can be paid out of Muiden's own budget if it is committed to implementing the established higher level of greening. All in all, it is up to the municipality of Muiden, and immediately of course to the merged municipality, to decide on the level of greening, but from the general interest and the interest of all other municipalities, I would no longer find it reasonable to do so, as part of the Article 12 procedure, at that higher level.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u63	The Minister immediately dives into the content of the agreement, but of course there is a step in advance. The starting point for this is the letter from the province of Noord-Holland sent to the Lower House of the province and from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that the financial consequences of the settlement agreement will be completely remedied. I would therefore point out that all parts of the fixing agreement would be included in that Article 12 procedure. That is not happening now, when, on the basis of this information, I had the impression that that was the starting point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u64	This is happening now, because the Article 12 inspector has established that, if one really wants to have the green level at that provision which is significantly higher than the standard level in the Municipal Fund, it is up to the municipality of Muiden itself to do so. By the way, if the municipality wanted to do so, because it felt that it had private law to do so, it could do so from its own budgetary resources and its own remit. So it remains an Article 12 situation. Remember that it remains a situation in which a municipality turns to all other municipalities in the Netherlands and says: we can't get out anymore, help. Then 10.2 million will be added from other people's resources to this issue. Then it is up to the Article 12 inspector to take an objective test, which is as objective as we can make it, to see what is possible and what is not possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u65	The Minister blames the municipality of Muiden for having entered an Article 12 procedure...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u66	No, I'm not.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u67	... but if it had not concluded that determination agreement, it would not have entered into that Article 12 procedure. Then she would have gone into the reclassification. In this respect, there is therefore a certain inconsistency in the Minister's reasoning. She's in that procedure because she actually did something good.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u68	I'm not blaming anyone. It worked out in Muiden the way it did. I leave it to the historians to judge in due course how that all happened. Nor do I go along with scenarios about what would have happened if she had not concluded that fixing agreement. I note that the Article 12 inspector now states that the matter can be carried out cleanly. That is the bottomline and the essence of what is now on the table. That is why I think I have discussed the financial aspects of this and I come to the remaining questions. I have already answered Mr Bishop's question as to whether it is possible to postpone the decision on the final ozb tariff. That is not possible, because in the end a new municipality will be created by January 2016, if the bill is passed. An ICI rate should then be set that will apply retroactively from January 2016. That is a legal requirement; there is no other way. I understand Mr Bishop's question about the elections very well. Strictly speaking, this has also been discussed on previous occasions in the Chamber....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... All three municipal councils asked to be able to hold elections in March 2018, and argued that they were already in the reclassification process before that bill was passed in the Chamber. If an exception were to be made, it would be a one-off exception. That situation will not arise again. I should therefore like to propose that, after hearing the views of all three municipal councils, this should be implemented. Their consideration is that they find it undesirable to hold elections in six years' time. Where they can argue that they did not necessarily see this coming in advance, I would ask the Chamber once again to agree to this and to respond to the request of the three municipal councils. That seems to me to have answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u69	We'll see about that. Mr Bosma has one more question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u70	A brief question, with your permission. What about the support base in the three municipalities? Is that where they're grabbing? Is that what people want? My mailbox suggests something else. In any case, there has never been an investigation or a referendum showing that the people there are very keen to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u71	It is up to the municipalities themselves to determine how they come to the conclusion whether they are for or against a merger. I note that they say in their letter of 9 February that the decision must be taken and that it is a good proposal to bring the three municipalities together. Once again, they have put financial conditions in place, and we have just discussed this in detail with each other. However, that does not alter this conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u72	So there have been no sounds from the Minister that there would be any support among the people?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u73	Perhaps Mr Bosma means the opposite of what he asks?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u74	Yes, I think Mr Bosma meant the question differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u75	Can you prove that, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u76	I'll have to read the Acts first, and I don't have one yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u77	Have the Minister achieved any sounds that there would be support among the inhabitants of the three municipalities concerned?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u78	I have received a letter from the governments of the three municipalities. These are the democratically elected governments of the municipalities. They said a month and a half ago that they were convinced that the combination of the municipalities of Bussum, Naarden and Muiden could help the region's impact, the provision of services to its inhabitants and the strengthening of local democracy. I expect these elected representatives to speak on behalf of the people. I would like to add once again that a letter has been issued since then, in which it has been reported that there has been a lot of talk about the financial framework conditions. We have just talked about this, and I have just said that, exceptionally, I would like to comply with the standard procedure if the Chamber invites me to do so by way of a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u79	Mr Bosma has quite rightly asked this question about the basis, because this reclassification has never been discussed with the population. The people have never spoken out on this either. It has been a toy of the drivers, especially the provincial directors. However, my question is not about acceptance, but about the sustainability of this proposal. At the moment, the province and the ministry are already busy considering the next reclassification. This reclassification has not yet been decided whether there are new plans for reorganising Naarden, Bussum and Muiden with Huizen, Blaricum, Laren and Hilversum and that in all kinds of possible variants. How does the Minister assess the sustainability of this reclassification?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u80	I have already answered that question in writing. I assume and also believe that this is a sustainable solution. This is without prejudice to the fact that, of course, people are allowed to have all kinds of views. I have heard the mayor of Hilversum say that there should be a municipality of Gooi. He was given that view. So I do not rule out the fact that others have different views on this. However, I believe that this cohesion, i.e. a municipality with a population of 55,000, is a sustainable solution. That's also the county analysis.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u81	A reclassification should of course stand for something of 100 years, but let me make it smaller. Can the Minister here promise that in the next ten years there will be no proposal for a reclassification in the Chamber involving Muiden, Naarden and/or Bussum? Can the Secretary of State undertake to do so here? The next ten years; that's a dime!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u82	I'll cut it in half. In any case, I am giving that guarantee until mid-2017, the end of this cabinet's term of office. If everyone now promises to vote for the coalition parties, I may be able to extend that promise. Otherwise, I cannot rule over the grave of this cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u83	As President, I must add that even spring 2017 is not a guarantee, but there is nothing the Minister can do about it! This brought an end to the first-term response by the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. We shall proceed immediately with the second term of the Chamber and, first of all, I would like to give the floor to Mr Veldman, who may be interrupted this time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u84	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin with a word of thanks for all the congratulations I have received from colleagues for my maiden speech. That was a special moment that, fortunately, everyone has been through. It was also a special moment because of the proposal we have before us, namely to merge the municipalities of Muiden, Naarden and Bussum. It's special, if only because we've been talking about it for ten years. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. If I have listened to him correctly, he has responded positively to the questions I have asked and the concerns I have still had, in the sense that the claim for compensation, which is a great deal of concern, is actually off the table. Also, the safety net that has been created is so tense that, if it should go wrong, there is no more damage than the damage that the municipality of Muiden could bear. The new municipality will therefore not suffer more than the independent municipality of Muiden could bear on its own. That sounds like a great safety net to me. I understand that the Minister says that the Article 12 procedure still needs to be completed, but if I listen to him carefully, he will say: it can't really go wrong anymore. There may still be this concern among some, but if I listen to the Minister in this way, I think we should be confident that, with the good report by the inspectors, the decision can be taken in the middle of this year and the 10.2 million euro shared by all the municipalities will go towards Muiden to cover the risks. That only leaves Muiden's own responsibility. According to the inspectors, this can be done in a good way in the coming years. So, as I said in the first term, we are moving towards a clean delivery of the municipality of Muiden. If the municipality continues its efforts, there may even be a budget surplus, which will enable the new city council to make its choices again. All in all, I think that this is a good time to conclude the discussion that started in 2005. This will provide clarity for residents, for directors and for representatives of the people and will enable the new municipality to start on 1 January. When the new municipality starts on 1 January, I wish the new directors and representatives of the people every success in ensuring that their new municipality will be a successful municipality, in which residents can live, work and recreate to their satisfaction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u85	What about the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u86	Oh, yeah, I almost forgot! I'm almost skipping the motion because I thought, "It's all going so well." But, yes, the interest rate risk is still there. I heard the minister say he'd like to cover that up. He mentioned a number of positive points, but the negative ones are of course there. The Minister is actually asking for a ruling from the Chamber, so let's do it. So I'm tabling a motion to cover the interest rate risk. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the municipality of Muiden has the Article 12 status in 2015 and will reclassify with Bussum and Naarden as of 1 January 2016;]] [[Whereas the financial risks of Muiden's Article 12 status should not exceed the scope of Muiden's multiannual budget;]] [[noting that in its opinion the Article 12 inspector takes into account an interest advantage for the municipality of Muiden due to lower interest rates, while it is uncertain whether this benefit will actually occur;]] [[calls on the government, in consultation with Muiden, Bussum, Naarden and the province of North Holland, to cover this interest rate risk,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Veldman, Mr Fokke, Mr Van Raak, Mr Bruins Slot and Mr Schouw.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34075-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u87	I think this is a good motion, which gives financial extra security for the municipality of Muiden and for the new municipality to be formed. Because as I said in my first term: city councils can steer on many, but not on the state of interest. So that is a risky thing for the new municipality and for the municipality of Muiden and that we have to deal with in a decent way. That's what we'll do with this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u88	Mr Bosma's first interruption to Mr Veldman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u89	And it's gonna be tough, Mr. Chairman! First of all, I hear from the rows that others have signed this motion, so perhaps that should be added to the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u90	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u91	On behalf of whom else are you filing this motion, Mr Veldman?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u92	Partly on behalf of the Labour Party, D66, SP and CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u93	Okay, well, that's part of the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u94	That wasn't so hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u95	No, but this wasn't my interruption; it was just a peer gesture. I was not asked to sign this motion, by the way. That is a bit of a pity from Mr Veldman. Then he and the coalition cut off a fine motion and he almost forgot to file it. But this aside. The elections in Bussum are coming soon. The local VVD is very afraid that they will result in a huge failure for the VVD. People are afraid of being decimated. Will Mr Veldman be on the spot to fly for the VVD and to receive the compliments of the grateful people at those rapid elections in the new municipality?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u96	It's possible. Last year there were reclassification elections in the municipalities of Millingen, Groesbeek and Ubbergen, a neighboring municipality of my own city of Nijmegen. There, too, I helped enthusiastically in the mid-term elections that took place at that time. So if there is a request from the VVD in the new municipality of Gooise Meren to support the campaign there with enthusiasm, I will certainly do so, as we VVD'ers are used to. When others appeal to you, you must lend the helping hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u97	That's very good. They have Mr Veldman's e-mail address, so we will see him on the street in Bussum at the elections. That's what's good for him. I look forward to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u98	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I was wondering what's going on with hard labor. I assume that Mr Bosma will have the ultimate answer to that. Does that turn out to be beautiful babies or really ugly? I've been looking into the science of that. I can reassure the Minister: there are very handsome babies, but they are not all equally beautiful. We have had a very complicated and difficult dossier for years. Not only in the municipalities, a lot has been said about this here in the Chamber. It is a good thing that some of the pressing points have been raised this evening. The Minister has done his best to resolve these issues. At the heart of the matter, these points mean that the matter is being cleaned up. A fine motion has already been tabled on the issue of interest rate If the KNSF file is still alive, then there are a number of guarantees. On that last point, I shall table a motion for a resolution. I wonder what the Minister thinks of that. I think that motion covers to a large extent what the Chamber wants. Together with Mr Bishop, I think it would be a good idea to describe this in the simplest terms. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, if unexpectedly the financial claim related to the KNSF site is relived, its financial burden should in principle not be borne by the new municipality;]] [[points out that in this situation the Empire and the Province of North Holland must provide a solution,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Schouw and Mr Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34075-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u99	Mr. Chairman. Mr Schouw spoke of childbirth. I see that Mr Schouw is objecting! But the question is whether it will be a happy marriage if the loved ones don't love each other. This reclassification has become a mess. Once upon a time, love in the Throw was a lot bigger. Before 2005, the municipalities sought each other out to work together. From an ideology inspired by large-scale thinking and administrative delusions of grandeur, a discussion about forced reclassification has emerged. We have seen this in other places in the Netherlands. In my opinion, this is one of the reasons why the relationships are administratively sharpened and love has cooled. Instead of working together, they put the heels in the sand and started fighting each other, to the last penny. For the most part, that's solved now, I think. I thank the Minister for the commitment on interest rates and claims. Two motions have been tabled. I co-signed one of them. I will certainly support the other motion. So I think the financial side of the matter is in order. But is that also administrative? Is love back again? I don't think so. I think that the condition for a proper reclassification is a good one. The drivers have to want it. However, I have received letters, e-mails and phone calls in recent days which show that this is not the case. Moreover, there is a discussion about whether the population wants to do so, neither in Bussum, nor in Naarden, nor in Muiden, nor here in the House of Representatives. Can we say no? Can we say yes? What are the prospects for the area if we say no? Should we start all over again and come back here in ten years with drivers who are still fighting each other out? If we say yes, will it be a happy marriage or will it result in us having a new proposal on reclassification in ten years' time, because the drivers are fighting each other out? I started and finished my contribution in the first term by expressing shame. Once again, I express my shame at what has happened in the Throw over the past few years. The municipalities, the provinces and also the Ministry play a role in this. We sent them back to do their homework again, but they didn't succeed. Now let's switch them over to an "F" or is it a 5,5? I have to tell you, I don't know yet. I will discuss this in my group. We will have that discussion and the outcome will be seen in the votes. At the moment, I don't want to be conclusive.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u100	I understand very well what Mr Van Raak is saying. I would like to have some reflection on the following two issues. Firstly, Mr Van Raak says that the drivers do not want it. We have made an attempt just today to remove the criticism of the directors on two financial points. Does Mr Van Raak agree with me? And that helps?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u101	Yeah, that's a plus.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u102	Secondly, Mr Van Raak says that the population has not been able to express itself. I understand that, and I didn't miss that either. The advantage of this lengthy process, if you can already speak of an advantage, is, of course, that municipal elections have also gone over. I cannot escape the impression that political parties have said something about this in their election programme. You could at least argue that the population here, albeit indirectly, has gone a little over it. It's just a little bit, but the people have said something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u103	That's right; a little bit. The dilemma I always have in this context is that the local democracy belongs to someone. Local democracy does not belong to the rulers. So the drivers can find what they want. Local democracy does not belong to people's representatives, but to the citizens. Citizens choose their representatives and nowadays they build or not. They build houses or they don't build houses. They also set a high or low rate. But those elected representatives, the elected leaders and politicians, do not decide what should happen to the citizens' democracy. That's what the citizens do. That is why our serious preference always goes to presenting such a decision to the people whose democracy is, through a referendum, a referendum or a representative poll. I don't care if I have any idea what the people, whose democracy is, actually think. And none of that happened here. So I cannot give Mr Schouw an answer yet. However, today, thanks to the Minister's action, a number of major concerns have been removed. But Mr Schouw will also have to wait for the final judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u104	Mr. Chairman. I still doubt there's anything produced on the Gooi mattress that we should all be happy about. However, the Minister has made a number of commitments that go in the right direction. I have asked a number of questions, to which the Minister always replied: I have a letter dated 8 February. I also have a letter dating from March, and yes, I quote from that. Quoteing is always selective, as I say to Mr Schouw, but 'unwanted' and 'unacceptable' are in it. At the end, indeed, there seems to be an exegesis, but now we are going to commit exegesis to being created a kind of loophole that it may, perhaps, under circumstances and so on. But the first paragraph just says "unwanted" and "unacceptable." Since it's by far the biggest fusion partner of the entire party, you can't lightly step over it. Well, I certainly don't. Then there's the support. The minister may sometimes walk through this part of the Netherlands, whether or not on his way to his tree or walking his dog. So he could have sniffed that support from his own experience, but I didn't even hear him say that. So I don't see that whole support story, and I've been in contact with quite a few people. This was by no means a representative group, I admit immediately, but I do not see the support for it anywhere. I'm stuck with the note from the municipality of Bussum. I am therefore in a very negative position and will consider it just as much as the speaker before me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u105	We'll wait and see. I give the floor to Mr Bishop, who is also speaking on behalf of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u106	That's totally correct. Mr. Chairman. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Minister for his reply. It responds firmly to the biggest bone in our throats and to the bones of many of our colleagues, as we have seen. I am still not happy that there is room to hold the elections in 2018. I think this is unwise, but that won't be a stumbling block. The point of the Bloemendalerpolder is also sufficiently explained. For us, the Minister's opinion on both motions is still important. This will play a significant role in our final assessment and position.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u107	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his answers. Several colleagues have already said that the course does not deserve a beauty prize. I was just looking at the minister and thinking to myself that he's the one who's been saddled with a very long history and yet now is trying to bring it to a successful conclusion. During the past period, the province of Noord-Holland has also meant a number of things. In addition, the municipality of Muiden has worked hard. The two commitments to cover interest rate risks give a certain security to the municipalities. The Minister also made it very clear once again that if the legal claim survives, the risk falls to us. There is one more point I would like to discuss with the Minister, namely maintenance costs. I know what the Minister's saying. He actually says that the municipality of Muiden has agreed in the fixing agreement to an excessive condition for green maintenance. He wonders if that was really wise, because you would pass the risk on to other municipalities of the Netherlands. But I can also imagine that if the agreement had not been concluded, it would have been much further away from home. And so are we all. It's like buying a house, I tell the minister. Sometimes you have to negotiate with things that really bug you, because you know you're gonna be empty-handed when you say no. The Minister says: I really can't ride that in the Article 12 procedure. That would be contrary to the rules. I am a real CDA, and I do not want to force the Minister to act against the rules. We have to be careful. But maybe there's something else possible. I tried to take that in a motion. Given the history, in view of everything that has happened, I would ask the Minister to sit down again with Deputy States and perhaps also with the municipality of Muiden to see if a fair solution can be found. In view of the objections raised by the Minister himself, it may also be possible to look again at the extent to which something can be done for each other. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations, Deputy States of North Holland, indicated that the starting point of the Article 12 procedure for Muiden was that the financial consequences of the adoption agreement would be fully remedied;]] [[Whereas the Municipality of Muiden would not have entered into an Article 12 procedure if it had not concluded a settlement agreement with regard to the KNSF site;]] [[invites the Government, in consultation with the Deputy States of North Holland and the Municipality of Muiden, to find a fair solution to the additional costs of managing and maintaining the KNSF site directly resulting from the determination agreement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Bruins Slot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34075-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u108	I don't know if this minister's been in service, but if you want to shoot a cannon for which you need a gun barrel with a fuse, there's always a lock on it. Let us hope that the Minister can become the final stage of this long procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u109	I thank Mrs Bruins Slot, former officer of the Driving Artillery. I say that for those who have not yet made that clear. I call Mrs Fokke on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u110	And this evening on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u111	I almost forgot them. The constructive opposition.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u112	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for the answers. When Pierre Heijnen gave me this file, he said, "Manon, you're getting two very annoying inheritances." The first inheritance was the Krimpenerwaard. I have to say that last year turned out to be a tough one. He also said, "Get your chest wet for the merger file at the Throw." That wouldn't be an easy thing to do either. And that's absolutely true. That's exactly what I said earlier tonight. I'm not under any illusions. In the end, for a variety of reasons, parties sometimes lie so far apart that they cannot come together. Then you have to end up here in this Chamber, how acidic for some and how fine for others, a knot. That's what we have to do tonight. I welcome the explanation given by the Minister about Article 12. As far as my group is concerned, it is clear. The minister said he'd like to have a strong signal about the interest rate risk. The Minister was able to get that: the motion seems to me to be a strong signal. As far as we are concerned, she will be put to the vote on Tuesday. The only thing I'm struggling with is the claim for damages. I saw Mr Schouw and Mr Bishop's motion. I heard the Minister say that this is covered by the bill, but I think it is in the note following the report. Is that right? Am I right in saying that it's not in the bill as such? Is the passage in the note correct in relation to the report? This shows, more or less, that the supplementary benefit is involved. Is this something that will be included in the Article 12 decision? In Mr Schouw's motion and Mr Bisschop's motion I miss the possible reproachability of the municipality. It has fallen completely into that motion, and we need to be very careful in this kind of situation. That is why I read the passage very technically. That is why I would like an answer from the Minister to my question as to whether it is contained in the legislative proposal or, I think, only in the note relating to the report. How's the sequel going? If it is indeed in the decision of the Article 12 inspectors, there is nothing else to regulate it. I'm glad there's a good solution to the claim for damages. We cannot look into the future and that is why I think it really goes too far to say here tonight that the claim for damages is 5 million or 10 million. Because we don't know that, because if that fixing agreement collapses, you know one thing for sure: parties will end up in court. In that case, it will be the judge who will determine how high the claim will be. I do not think that we should let ourselves out in the House of Representatives on that level, because we do not know that. Mr Schouw tried to seduce me in an interruption in the first place, but I really do not, because we should not do that to each other. Let us hope that the fixing agreement will remain in place and that we will be happy to have created a safety net in case something happens that is not due to the municipality of Muiden or to the new municipality. We are very pleased with the clarity, especially if the Minister can also clarify the claim for damages. As far as we are concerned, we must make sure that we finally reach a decision on this dossier. As far as we are concerned, it will be a merger on 1 January and I am taking an advance on that new municipality by wishing it all the best.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u113	I will briefly explain Mr Bishop's catch-net motion and myself, because Mrs Fokke is right to make a point of reproach. Is it even in there? It's implicit, because we've already talked about it here. I have tried with Mr Bishop to write in the motion as simple as possible what we all mean, so that the people in the gallery and the people at home do not have to look in rebuttals to understand what we mean. The point is absolutely noted and if there is a need for it, we would like to clarify the motion. I think it's clear by saying it like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u114	I would like to know from the Minister how to read the passage in the motion for a resolution following the report, because I have noticed that I do not let it be mysterious that the concept of 'clean' in this dossier has also become a very own life. One party means "clean" that we take Muiden down to zero on January 1st and then start over again and the other what the municipality can reasonably bear. I'm a lawyer and maybe a total pain in the ass, but I really want to prevent us from having all kinds of passages next to each other and that's why we can't get out of it. I would say that the motion is a very good start, but the wording in the note on the report seems to me to be so careful, because we all know where we stand when we take it as a starting point. If one thing has become clear to me, it is that we must finally determine where we stand on this dossier. In other words, let us ensure that we do not go back to working with all kinds of different definitions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u115	The Minister indicated that he could reply immediately and give an immediate opinion on the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u116	Mr. Chairman. I am passing by the speakers and always discussing the motions tabled in that context. I thank Mr Veldman for his support. I'd like to leave the verdict on his motion on covering the interest rate risk to the Chamber. I'll add two things. Firstly, I would like to stress that I attach great importance to this Chamber speech, because it is not a standard procedure. The regular route is determined by reference date what the Article 12 package means. That is the correct procedure and we are now clearly going a step further. I don't want to do that on my own, but if the Chamber asks me to, I will. Secondly, I would like to say something about implementation, and I would like the matter to be closed at some point on the part of the Empire. I will therefore have the intention of doing it in the middle of this year when determining the supplementary payment so that a budget can be drawn up to enable the loan to be made at that time. In this way, the following choice lies ahead for the municipality. Either the loan can be contracted, where the fact that this must be done sooner than necessary is borne by the supplementary payment. Or one can decide for oneself to assume that interest rates are not going to rise. Then that decision is made on its own. But we are given financial space to cover that risk, and we are doing so in such a way that at some point the matter has been settled. I agree with Mr Schouw that it is a difficult childbirth; let us leave the biology of childbirth out of this debate. As regards the motion in part No. 11 by Mr Schouw and Mr Bisschop, I would like to maintain a line that is consistent with what I said in the first term. I say this in response to Mrs Fokke's question. I can leave the opinion on the motion to the Chamber if I may read it in such a way that it is true that in principle it cannot be charged to the new municipality, 'in principle' means the reservation: unless it is a result of its own fault.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u117	Then you mean "own guilt" in the sense of gross negligence?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u118	Then I mean that exactly as I described it in the first term. I see Mr Van Raak's struggle...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u119	Minister, Mr Veldman also has an interruption on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u120	I hear the Minister speaking on Mr Schouw's motion and Mr Bishop saying something different from what is actually stated in the note on the report. Unless the Minister says no, it says exactly the same thing. But I believe that the Minister is explaining the motion slightly differently from the note on the report. I attach particular importance to this and to the Minister himself, in my view, that we follow this line.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u121	Perhaps I should make it a little more explicit for the Acts. I think I saw Mr Schouw nod for a moment. I have asked the author of the motion whether I can read it in such a way that it is 'in principle' that this implies the condition I mentioned, namely that it is not the fault of the municipality itself if a higher claim is still made. For the Acts: I see Mr Schouw nodding. If I may read it that way, it is consistent with the line I put forward in the first term, which is also in the note on the report. Then I'll leave the judgment to the Chamber. I hope that with the commitments made and, if these motions were to be adopted, I will be able to get Mr Van Raak to try to convince his group. We are waiting for that with tension. Mr Bosma insisted on the issue of acceptance. I get that. I will add that otherwise there will be a false impression that this is all about community money. If we continue to meet the financial wishes of these merging municipalities, this will be achieved by the other 390 municipalities of the Netherlands. So the issue is not whether I am prepared to do so; I am simply trying to do so in a just way, also according to the established rules. Once again, we can talk about this very openly here, but that is the discussion we should be having. I gave Mr Bisschop the opinion on the motions and I await his group's opinion on the legislative proposal with interest. Mrs Bruins Slot emphasizes the history. I get that. She also gave advice for buying a house. That's what I'm knotting in my ears for another reason. Leave this out of the Acts. I'll come to the motion in part No. 12 by Mrs Bruins Slot, in which she comes back to the issue of the higher level of maintenance. I would like to bring the CDA as part of the overall festivities. So I want to see what I can do. I would add this: I really do not think it is appropriate to make this part of the Article 12 procedure, for the reason I have given. I would like to follow the advice of the Article 12 inspector. If I may read the motion in such a way that I am going to do my best to discuss with the province of North Holland whether there is any way to contribute to the solution there, I would like to do so. However, it is only an effort that I take on board. So I cannot make a commitment on the outcome of that effort. Again, I wouldn't consider that appropriate. If I may read the motion in this way, I would like to talk to the Deputy States of Noord-Holland and the municipality of Muiden about the search for a solution that is asked for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u122	At least I appreciate the Minister's doing a hand-picking. When does he think he will be able to clarify this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u123	In all honesty, not before the votes on this bill. I have to talk to the province of Noord-Holland about this. I think that will be the interesting part of the conversation, because the wishes of the municipality of Muiden are clear. I'll try to do it by June at least. Is that fair?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u124	The question is, of course, whether the province of Noord-Holland has as positive an intention as this minister has. Perhaps that is something that can be shared before the votes. This would mean that there are two parties which at least have the will to look at whether there is anything else possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u125	Let me assume for my own authority that I think that if the Chamber asks for that by motion and I then turn to the province of North Holland, which will want to enter into that conversation. Well, I guess I'll take that as my starting point. Again, I can't anticipate the outcome of that conversation, but I'll do my best. Mrs Fokke asked whether the safety net was part of the Article 12 decision. The answer to this question is in the affirmative. Mrs Fokke also asked about the reading of the Schouw/Bisschop motion. I have just given an answer to that question, which I thought was in line with Mrs Fokke's intentions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u126	Thank you, Minister. Then this debate has ended, unless Mr Schouw wishes to put another clarifying question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u127	Not to the minister, but to you, in a formal sense. Is it possible to vote on the motions first on Tuesday and then on the bill, given the weight of the motions?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-8.u128	That seems to me to be very reasonable in this respect. It is ultimately a decision of the Chamber, but I will pass on the request. I see that it can count on the support of the Members present. That's how we're gonna do it. That is the end of this debate. The bill and the motions will be voted on next Tuesday. I thank the Minister for coming and the members for their input.
