ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u1	I would like to welcome Members, as well as the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure and the Environment, and those who follow this debate in the public gallery or at home. I would like to agree with Members that we shall have this debate until 6 p.m., because another debate is scheduled afterwards. Two interruptions and one follow-up question apply to this debate. You all have five minutes' speaking time. I call Mr Smaling.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u2	Mr. Chairman. I have the pleasure of opening the debate on two important issues and with two State Secretarys. I hope they have the division of labour in order. Is one about the bees and the other about the weed killers? We'll find out. Plant protection products are the good equivalent of agricultural poison. That's still the way it is. Although it is a fact that crop production is negatively affected by diseases, pests and weeds, we need to work much harder to keep substances that are not naturally present outside the soil-plant animal system. Now that the active part of the widely used Roundup of the UN World Health Organisation has received the label "probably carcinogenic," intervention is necessary. The same applies to substances responsible for large-scale bee mortality, as an article in a leading scientific journal showed. The main question of this debate is therefore, as far as the SP Group is concerned, the route to a total ban on these resources and the alternatives to it. After all, we are aware that in agriculture it is necessary that you sometimes use resources to maintain crop production, but preferably ecologically sound. To sum up, what is the status of neonicotinoids? A slaughter was carried out among other useful insects than honeybees, and among birds. It actually countered integrated pest control. Field trials show, for example, that on fields with neonicotinoids you have more nude snails than on fields without neonicotinoids, because the insects that have to do the work are actually crushed by the poison. The seed coating in the neonicotinoids is of course also easy, because it is not applied when it is needed, but always. You shouldn't want that anymore at this time. Without bees and bumblebees there will be no pollination of fields and fruit trees. But also wanted pollinators to be hit, so it goes beyond that orchard and that plot. It affects the entire landscape and also nature reserves. Well, then, on the subject of pomegranate. All over South America and everywhere soy is grown, turnips are used. This also happens in the Netherlands in the house-garden-and-kitchen treatment of streets and squares when it comes to weed control. Steps have been taken by the Secretary of State, but what is the situation? In both cases you often have to deal with European directives and regulations. Glyphosate is category 2A on the WHO list of carcinogenic substances. That is, limited evidence in humans, but sufficient evidence in experimental animals. That's serious, isn't it? In addition, over the last five years, there have been around 100 standard overruns in surface water for drinking water production in the Netherlands. In short, before you start using pesticides! I made my maiden speech here in the presence of the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and the Environment. I kept a whole story about DDT and that sometimes you don't know what you don't know. But at some point, you know what's going on. DDT has a history, just like asbestos does. I was in Wateringen yesterday where an asbestos fire had just taken place. Despite renovations, I was able to pick up pieces of asbestos from the ground. We have had a period with such materials, and also with these pesticides, of: what works well and "the sky is the limit," but suddenly you discover that there are all bad sides to these products. Then you come into the phase of denial and trivialization. At that stage, we are now dealing with these substances. The large industry, with all due respect, such as Bayer with the bee leaf, does not benefit from the disappearance of such resources from the market. This also applies to other multinationals in this area. However, we need to take steps to eliminate these substances, which are demonstrably causing major ecological damage and serious health damage. It fits these times, and it can. If you do it, innovation space for alternatives will be created. I'll finish with a few questions. The authorisation by the College for the Authorisation of Plant Protection Products and Biocidal Products (Ctgb) is not linked to the objectives of the Water Framework Directive. That surprises me a little, because the Secretary of State of I and M is about both. She should make sure that doesn't get in the way of each other. Much runs through European directives and regulations, but they are our bees, our sports fields, our drinking water and our health. I would like to hear from both Secretary of State how far they are in Europe and how much we can do with emergency measures so that we do not have to wait until everything is settled in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u3	I hear Mr Smaling talking about banning prohibition. It all has to be done as soon as possible, but I can't hear him talking about the consequences of the ban. I understand from Mr Smaling that innovation comes naturally, but does he also want to respond to an article in the Friesch Dagblad of 8 April: in the case of a ban on Roundup, people buy it via the Internet in Poland?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u4	Mrs Lodders is right about the downside of European integration. You wouldn't wish all that could just happen. We have a densely populated land with very high groundwater, which makes us particularly vulnerable. The geographical, ecological and demographic conditions of the Netherlands are such that you simply want to do this more yourself. I do not immediately have the answer to Mrs Lodder's question. We need to think about how we can discourage use; I am not talking about criminalisation or anything like that. We must have a transitional arrangement so that it does not affect entrepreneurs from today to tomorrow. We need to move quickly to environmentally sound measures and products.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u5	I do have a solution for Mr Smaling, namely the continuation of existing policies. What is currently being sold in Poland, Germany and other Member States contains 100% active substance. It is much worse for the environment if it is used. What we buy in garden centres and construction markets is well dosed and safe to use. That's the solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u6	I don't think individuals always know exactly what they're spraying and scattering. In this sense, there is still some contradiction to Mrs Lodder's reasoning. One side of the story is that it's easy to get it in Poland. Those Eastern European Member States are not yet at the stage where they want to green it all. But a country like Austria goes beyond the Netherlands in banning some of these substances, purely because one simply does not want landscape and nature to be ruined by means that are proven to be bad. They're carcinogenic. How much clearer does Mrs. Lodder want it to be?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u7	Madam President. Of course, I've been committed to animals for a long time. When I arrived at a certain point with 144 and the animal police, people could have a great deal of sympathy for that. But when I started talking about bees in the Chamber eight years ago, people said I was crazy, including family members and friends of mine. For the ignorant among us: the bees are at the beginning of our food chain. Without bees, it's over. Then a global food problem can arise. Scientists have simply shown that this is going to happen. The bee is also medically indispensable. I am thinking, for example, of rheumatic patients. The sputum of bees and honey are very important. I have a thousand-page book at home about the medicinal effects of honey, the pro- and prebiotic effects of honey. In addition, honey has an antibiotic effect. Burn centers worked with it, you name it. In 2002, Roundup was admitted to the Dutch market. The PVV also immediately supported a motion to remove that product from the market. As far as the Acts are concerned, this is the motion on item 32372, No. 65. Of course, this authorisation was also based on studies which many considered not to be independent or even made public. Recent research has shown what this medicine can do for misery: birth defects, hormone-distorting effects, dead reptiles and amphibians, soil damage and so on. But it's also damaging to the Mayans and the Willies. I mention it, because the Secretary of State and I are still from Maya the Bee and I know that she is also a big fan of Maya the Bij and Willy, the bumblebee that is always there. A few years ago, the Secretary of State promised me that she would also take action for other pollinators. That's what happened, and I thank her for that. I also hope that she will continue to do so. I have also proposed alternatives to chemical weed control. For example, I mentioned the possibility of doing it with steam. My contacts with municipalities showed that steam is not only more effective but also cheaper. Then why don't we? Furthermore, I have put forward to the Secretary of State names of people from the Non-Chemical Weed Control Foundation, the NCO. How's that going? I also ask that because the Secretary of State would have the Ministry contact the contact person I mentioned at the time. I've got 27858, no. 131 tabled a motion stating that "the government requests that the chemical substances which can be replaced by non-chemical variants where possible" should be examined. How's that going? Is anything going to be done about the request in this motion? Certain plant protection products also contain neonicotinoids. I'm glad I could say this word at once, because most of the time I stumble over it. Its use also affects hoverflies and indispensable pollinators such as bumblebees and bees. They die on a large scale. I put bee mortality on the agenda with Mrs Lutz Jacobi of the PvdA. It is always said: the PVV always shouts and does not come up with solutions. But what did I do? I have ensured that beekeepers were placed on government buildings, because there are fewer bees affected by certain radiation and pesticides and insecticides. That has become a great success. We have the first bee closet on a government building here. We beat France to it! The first parliamentary bee closet is here in the garden. The queen carried a part of my name: Dionysia Lemmerantia. We placed 2,000 bees and in no time there were tens of thousands. It became so many that they even had to move bee populations. Too bad we can't do anything with the honey. It must not be used commercially again and we must not eat our own honey in the Members' refectory. I would like to thank the Secretary of State, because she was the second to have a bee closet placed in the Ministry of EZ. That's where the bees thrive. After that, not only the banks followed our example, but also Heineken Nederland, the beer one. Heineken will soon open one of the most beautiful and largest bee gardens in the Netherlands. We must all take an example of this. The bees are thriving there and it is good that everyone is cooperating with banks, large multinationals and so on. The plan works! Now that things are getting better, of course we shouldn't weaken. I would therefore like to know what the Secretary of State will continue to do to ensure our food security. I am therefore concerned not only with my love for bees, but also with the food security of people and the medicinal effect of honey in sick people and children. What's the Secretary of State gonna do to protect all that? Mrs Lodders rightly pointed out that, of course, there must be a level playing field within the European Union. We do not have much with the EU anyway, but we are in favour of the internal market. That was also the intention of the EEC. So there has to be some kind of level playing field. The Secretary of State can influence other European countries and that is why I want her to take action as soon as possible for this promised accelerated phasing-out, including those neonicotinoids. She's gotta keep making a big deal out of that. I'll leave it at that for now, Madam President. Have a nice day!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u8	Mr. Chairman. The mean thing about farm poison is that you can use it to get rid of certain weed species or insects that don't come out so well, but that shit also kills other stuff. You can feel that on your clogs. That poison isn't just poison for the one plant or insect you weren't waiting for. The Netherlands is in the top three countries worldwide with the highest poison use per hectare and the consequences of the use of agricultural poison have come to us in recent years. Fortunately, there is not really a big disagreement anymore about the need to significantly reduce the use of poison. This Chamber supported the Animal Party in an appeal to the Cabinet to ensure a European moratorium on these new supertoxins, the neonicotinoids, which are linked to worrying bee mortality. The Secretary of State for EZ has also worked for this purpose. When we saw that the European proposal was very limited and contained only a moratorium on three species, leaving 80% of the use of poison in the Netherlands untouched and for only two years, this Chamber said: that is not enough; the concerns are so great that the precautionary principle requires a national ban on neonicotinoids. This Chamber has also asked the Cabinet to prohibit the sale of arthropods to private individuals; that stuff from Monsanto is hormone disrupting and carcinogenic. In addition, this Chamber asked the Cabinet to remove from the market mold warriors who could cause resistant fungi in humans, which could cause a repeat of the antibiotic resistance drama. Now this cabinet says it shares the concerns of the Chamber. Yeah, I bet you do. When I look at the commitment of the Secretary of State for EZ and also at that of the Secretary of State for I and M, who is doing more than her predecessor, I have to admit that in all honesty. I trust that too, but the question is whether the cabinet will do everything possible. That is what the motions for resolutions are asking for. The motions do not ask for a moment to see if it can be done in Europe. Of course, it would be best if we could regulate the European system, but the concerns of the Chamber are clearly expressed. We do not have such good experiences with European regulation. If Europe is already taking action, it is only half-hearted and we have to take our own responsibility. That is what the debate is about today. The cabinet says that legal problems arise when we take further steps, but the Animal Party does not agree. There is case law, based on the European agreements we have made, that Member States may apply the precautionary principle if there are suspicions that certain substances pose a risk to public health. That's what we're talking about here. The routes chosen by the cabinet are not wrong, but insufficient. Only the European route is too thin. Thanks for the effort, but there must be more! It is also not wrong to ask the Ctgb, the college that is in the Netherlands about the assessment of these types of toxins, for a re-evaluation, but the Party for Animals has great concerns about this. How can an independent European study wake us up again about the even greater consequences of the use of neonicotinoids, not just for bees and birds, but also for other species? That was available knowledge that the Ctgb should have included in its own assessments in our view. What does the Secretary of State think about the fact that an analysis of available scientific knowledge leads to the conclusion that the concerns are greater that the Ctgb has so far wanted to admit? Does this mean that the Ctgb doesn't take those studies or that the Ctgb does other things that we don't want to do? We have another concern with regard to the Ctgb. This Chamber has said that we must get the fungal warriors who can provide resistance off the market, but what does the Ctgb do? It recently allowed one of those exact same fungal fighters. Is the Ctgb not aware of the warnings of Radboud University, which literally state that people with poor health can get lung infections and die from them? What does the Secretary of State think of this course of action of the Ctgb? Why does it confine itself to the European route and a review by the Ctgb as a solution to the implementation of these motions? The Party for Animals objects to the fact that the Cabinet has left behind the route that has no major legal dangers: that of initiating the regular procedure. As a Member State, you say the following. "We have concerns about certain substances, such as neonicotinoids, turnips and fungal warriors. We intend to take them off the market. We are starting a procedure in which there is talk of hearing again and again. We'll reverse the evidence. Instead of proving the dangers beyond doubt, it is up to Bayer, Monsanto and Syngenta to demonstrate that there is no risk." If they cannot do so, we are strong and we can introduce bans. It's gonna take a little longer than the emergency procedure. I am not asking you to do that, even if I would prefer to do so, because then these substances will be off the market tomorrow. But it is an intermediate route that this cabinet can use but never mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u9	Would you like to finish? You are well over your speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u10	I'm rounding up. This is my final remark. The Animal Party does not understand that the cabinet continues to say that it shares the concerns but leaves aside the possibility of banning these substances as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u11	Mr. Chairman. Since last Wednesday I am again a member of the House of Representatives. Then I thought: I don't have to go into one topic anymore, because I already arranged that in 2011 when a majority of the House adopted a motion asking me to stop injecting the poison on hardening and greening, the so-called non-commercial use. But apparently this is not the case here, because we are now three and a half years ahead and nothing has really changed, except that there is now a decision to at least get a ban on use from 2016 on hardening. I count my blessings, but it doesn't go fast and far enough for me. Fortunately, after 2011, there was an initiative in the Chamber to take further measures. The discussion on the dynamometer seems to focus on the legal sustainability of a sales ban. Even when I read back the pieces over a longer period of time, I get the feeling that there has been a bit of the reverse of the proverb: where there is a will, there is a way. That is: where there is no will, there is no way. I don't want to hear from the Secretary of State that I can't. I want to hear how it can be done. It has proved possible to impose a ban on the use of hardening, which also applies to individuals, which is quite clear that this is not enforceable, because we are not going to look behind those front doors. But that includes instruments that make it enforceable. Furthermore, on the basis of the precautionary principle, further insights and new dangers that are seen may give rise to a temporary ban, pending further investigations. This means that I would once again like to ask the Secretary of State: what are the possibilities for introducing a limited ban on arthropods in the future, pending further investigations and assessments, at least for the private sector? So I'm talking about the shelves in the garden centers. I would like to add one more thing to that. If some big sellers are already taking the stuff out of the shelf of their own accord, which I consider to be extremely positive, then it is a bit crazy for words that we are now defending the interests of the freeriders who want it to be on the shelves? That can't be the case, can it? Neonicotinoids are an agricultural poison that has enormous consequences. Research studies make it clear that we should restrict them strictly. Fortunately, that opinion is widely shared. I'm gonna get an element out of it. I am pleased that new investigations have been requested from the Commission and the Ctgb into possible far more far-reaching consequences than we have known so far. But that's gonna take a while. In the meantime, we know one thing for sure, namely that there are permanent exceedances of this stuff in the surface water of the greenhouse horticulture area. Is it possible, pending these investigations, to temporarily ban the use of these neonicotinoids in greenhouse horticulture, where it has the greatest effect? The closed greenhouse is a farce: it seeps into surface water on all sides, it is standards that go far beyond the limits, with great dangers. It's been a long time. Recent figures do not indicate any improvement either. I would like an answer to that question and to that very clear suggestion on my part. I'm still an optimist. Three and a half years after I was able to achieve a first success here in the area of satsumas, I hope that we will now make real progress. I look forward to the government's answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u12	Mr. Chairman. A newspaper report based on reports from the International Agency for Cancer Research, the IARC, which is potentially carcinogenic, brings our Parliament to a debate today. It's also a serious claim. But it's not like the news is gonna bring new evidence. The backup's rattling. In fact, the IARC is only asking the question whether it could cause cancer. I read an article in the Volkskrant the other day which, as a possible carcinogen, includes coffee, cinnamon, mustard, alcohol and other things. But of course, what matters is whether it's a real demonstrable risk and what dose we can get in. In this and the previous debates on the use of plant protection products, I always wonder whether we can determine the risk of a substance and a substance in this house. In fact, I would have liked to start my contribution and end with the question of who we are as MPs that we know better than independent authorities such as Ctgb, RIVM, EFSA or the German Institute for Risk Assessment. Glyphosate is currently being re-evaluated by the Member State of Germany. Literally, the Ctgb writes: Germany has seen many hundreds of documents and scientific publications in that light. Up to now, after examining all the publications, no reason has been seen to consider arthropods as suspected of causing cancer and to change the classification of arthropods. The RIVM concludes: "The IARC position differs from previous assessments made by renowned bodies, in which it is concluded that arthropods is not a carcinogen'. The authorisation requirements of a substance and a substance are very strict, especially in the Netherlands. Some 300 studies are to be carried out and half of them are to human health. The admission requirements are adapted to new scientific knowledge. The debate on the neonicotinoids is to a large extent similar to the debate on turnips. The difference is that in this case the discussion focuses on the effects on insects and birds.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u13	I find it special to hear the CDA say that when assessing toxins, the Ctgb brings new scientific insights and that we have to trust the Ctgb. How does Mr Geurts know that these new scientific insights are actually taken into account in the assessment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u14	It's in several publications. At least it's on the EFSA site and I also thought in RIVM publications. Scientists also indicate this in various articles. The Secretary of State asks the Ctgb for a new assessment, because there are new scientific insights. We know the Ctgb will do the same. So you just see in practice that that happens.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u15	Yes, but why does the Secretary of State have to ask the Ctgb, if it would do so on its own? How does Mr Geurts know that? Can he check how the Ctgb does that? The main problem is that bodies such as Ctgb and EFSA are allowed to assess their assessment on the basis of studies carried out by industry, which remain secret. You'd think there might be a pain there, because the standard in science is to do peer-reviewed research. Then research can always be criticized by other scientists and we can properly check whether the Ctgb or EFSA have done their job and whether those submitted studies based on "this is quite safe' are correct. So my question remains: how does Mr Geurts know for sure that this is just going well with the Ctgb? Can he check that out? Then I want to be able to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u16	The Ctgb has been established by this Chamber as an independent authority. I have every confidence that the Ctgb will do its job as it should. That Mrs Ouwehand of the Party for Animals has no confidence in the Ctgb is up to her. The CDA does have faith in the Ctgb.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u17	I have a rather wonderful feeling about Mr Geurts' story. You have a drug called pebble, which has been criticised for years on the basis that the substance, a toxic substance whose residual product is also toxic, accumulates in our soil and thus ends up in our groundwater. Water boards and drinking water supply companies have been calling for a strong reduction of this substance for years. Then there is the additional argument of 'possible carcinogen' and I hear Mr Geurts making a whole speech saying that on the basis of that one additional argument there is really nothing wrong. However, he did not comment on the total of the arguments. If there is reason enough to minimise the use of this product, and reasonable measures are possible to do so without major economic damage, is that additional argument of this possible carcinogenicness not a logical additional argument?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u18	I can see a lot of questions from this interruption, including partial questions. I'm trying to limit myself to the main line. I also picked up the website of the Atlas Pesticides in Surface Water for the Netherlands. Unfortunately, it does not contain figures for 2014 but fortunately it does in 2013. I would ask Mr Grashoff van GroenLinks to look on that site on pomelos. Unfortunately, I can't show it at this distance. We have standards in the Netherlands, red and yellow, and at all measuring points there are awfully many in the Netherlands it is not red and not yellow. It appears on a number of elements. I think we can agree with each other on the need to apply plant protection products and pesticides carefully and to deal with them with common sense. I am supported by the national attorney in my view that, if Parliament were to ban it without proper justification, the judge in a court ruling would simply say: Parliament, you have not done your job properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u19	I am glad that at least there is an opening in Mr Geurts' reply. I am glad that he wants to think seriously about it and that he seems to broadly agree with me on the issue of the reduction of resources that it serves a purpose. I am therefore extremely interested in the rest of his speech. I would like to give him another piece of advice: consult our drinking water supply companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u20	I would still like to respond, because in connection with the first interruption, I have left a point about alternatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u21	You will then give that as an answer and then Mr Schouw also has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u22	Fine. From a report from Wageningen University, I got a state. I'll show you now. This shows that the environmental impact of the alternatives to terribly hot water, fires and hot air is many times greater. We should take a good look at that, too. There are parties talking about energy saving and CO. I can follow that; I agree with most of that, but we must also take that into account in the debate on alternatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u23	That was a nice presentation by Professor Geurts and his factsheets. Yeah, I wish he was there, wasn't he, the beamer? I'll go on where Mr. Grashoff stopped. My group's love for the waterboards is great, as everyone knows, but there are still two remarkable things in their letter which make that love even greater. Waterboards say that we do not actually meet the requirements of the European Water Framework Directive, and waterboard measurements show that 50% of the measuring sites contain plant protection products in high concentrations in surface water. That's just two facts. They seem not to be on the map of the atlas, but do Mr Geurts agree with the D66 group that we should at least solve these two problems, so that we must comply with the Water Framework Directive and ensure that not half of the number of measurements of pesticides in the water is too high?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u24	I have a rather simple answer to that: yes, we have to comply with the Water Framework Directive. That's what we all agreed on. If there are measurements that we do not meet, then we have to work to that end as far as we are not doing so already. I only took the Atlas Pesticides, also a bit as a counterweight to all kinds of other things that are being put down. Unfortunately, we don't have a beamer, but I would have had a few more. I would like to try to bring back in the discussion the sane, sober mind as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u25	It is always very good to bring back the sober mind, but if we just take out the one thing: comply with the Water Framework Directive. Then the CDA Group also agrees with my group that we call on the cabinet to pull everything out of the closet in order to settle that within a year or two or three.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u26	Things should be possible, too. I may also be the water spokesperson on behalf of the CDA Group. We are also having this discussion on these subjects. There is also a lot of water coming into the Netherlands from abroad. It should appeal to Mr Schouw of the D66 Group that I think we should look at this much more closely at European level than we are doing at the moment. There are just a lot of things coming into the Netherlands from outside, where we are currently being paid for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u27	Please continue, Mr Geurts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u28	The reason to debate the use of neos today is the report of several national Academy of Sciences. For me, it is difficult to assess whether this report contains new data and to what extent these data have already been at the basis of EFSA's assessment of the neos. Can we assess the risks involved in the use, for example by means of seed coating or spraying, and how this should be investigated? Not in my eyes. That's what the Ctgb, RIVM, EFSA and so on are for. It is also state policy that the Ctgb assesses and determines which funds can be sold and used in the Netherlands, as can be seen on the website of the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Environment. However, the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and the Environment has announced a ban on the use of all plant protection products on hardening. The Ctgb has carefully assessed the use of resources and yet the Secretary of State comes up with an independent ban, which differs from the Ctgb's assessment. That's why I'm asking the Cabinet if it still has faith in the Ctgb. The ban will apply next year. From the outset, I have already questioned the legal sustainability of this ban. The lawyer supports me in this, as we read in the documents, including the low-risk means, which, according to the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and the Environment promised me, would be admitted. There would be criteria for low risk means that could be accepted. I tabled a motion on this matter more than a year ago, which was adopted by this Chamber. Municipalities are now buying up the maintenance of public space for next year, but they do not know what is or is not allowed next year. Actually, I think that's outrageous. That is why I ask the Secretary of State once again to carry out my motion. I also ask her when she will come up with the criteria for low-risk funds. Finally, I would like to stress that the use of resources can and must always be improved. I've just reported that in interruptions. Whatever substance it is, we are in favour of using easily degradable substances with as few effects as possible. I'm getting to the point of the bees. The CDA Group is concerned about the impact of bees and products from bees. We're seeing an import of killer bees right now. These are very aggressive bees that come from Africa and possibly Argentina in this direction and which we do not know in Europe. They're very aggressive. The question is whether the Secretary of State can indicate what the Cabinet is doing to investigate the import and health of bees entering Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u29	Mr Geurts has shown little concern about the effects on human health. This is also apparent from the equation he makes. He told me in the corridors that cucumbers are carcinogenic if you eat enough of them. I wonder what Mr Geurts is worried about. Let me give you an example. Last week, I believe, a study was carried out by the Agricultural University of Wageningen, which suggested that exposure to plant protection products for residents and especially for agricultural families could lead to all sorts of scary diseases. Is Mr Geurts concerned about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u30	It takes a little too far to indicate what Mr Geurts is all worried about; sometimes at least about the cabinet. A lot of research is being done on health. Mr Leenders is probably also referring to agricultural surveys and investigations by the Health Council into agriculture and the effects of agriculture. Let us wait and see for these investigations and not pick out all kinds of particles to try to prove ourselves right. What matters to me this afternoon, I have just made it clear. We should not use resources that we do not need. We must look for good alternatives and low-risk means. We've been waiting a year for it. There is an approved motion from my hand and we have been waiting for years for the outcome of what are low-risk means and what alternatives there are. The cabinet doesn't come up with that. That is why I am concerned about the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u31	We take a very long time in the Chamber; Mr Grashoff has already said something about this. May I refer another case to Mr Geurts on the neonicotinoids? Those dead bees and possibly other pollinators. If that were really the case, if it were even a little bit, we would soon have no apples and pears either. Is that what Mr Geurts is worried about?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u32	I do not know how many more interruptions there will be with the question of what concerns Mr Geurts. Of course, if there is demonstrable evidence that all this is going on and there are indications... You can also see that the applications are being modified; the labels for use are being modified. Some of the resources we do not know in the Netherlands, while they are widely used in the rest of the world. The Netherlands is doing its best and I believe that we are also pre-empting a number of things. However, we will not be able to solve everything in this Chamber this afternoon.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u33	Mr Geurts has prepared himself well as usual. Doesn't he have anything to do with the term "precaution"? The European directive also mentions the word. I have the impression that he is reasoning: as long as it is not proven, it has not been proven. These substances consist of very large organic molecules that do not belong at all in natural systems. You could expect from a party like the CDA, given her interest in the health of the population, that you don't bring in bees if the risk is too great. I don't hear anything about that. That is why I am asking whether precaution does not play any role for the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u34	I would like to thank Mr Smaling for this interruption, because in five minutes' speaking time you cannot get rid of everything. Now we can also deal with this point. I certainly do not enter into the debate with Mr Smaling, because his knowledge of chemistry will be many times greater than mine, also through his professionalism. However, at some point we must also have confidence in the organisations we have set up. If I have to judge on the basis of "possible," I can't go home tonight. After all, I can "possibly" have an accident, but I still want to go home.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u35	I would point out how DDT and asbestos have gone. First there was a stage of hallelujah, then a phase of it is actually wrong and then a phase of mea culpa. This also applies to such substances that are used on such a large scale. In Argentina and Paraguay there are a lot of birth defects. Farmers' wives in Canada get twice as many miscarriages as usual. Then you have to think there might be something going on. You cannot perhaps reason for Mr Geurts' good agricultural use: when the calf has drowned, do we muffle the well?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u36	What am I supposed to do with that kind of interruption? I can't judge what other facts there are, but it's frightening. I have seen the images of the anomalies that occur in humans, but I have not yet seen such images of the Netherlands or Europe. I'm not gonna look everywhere either, but if you have to take precautions everywhere, it's gonna go a long way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u37	Mr. Chairman. The WHO has considered that the substance biocidal products are likely to be carcinogenic to humans. The joint academies of science in Europe say that neonicotinoid not only kills bees, but also all kinds of wild pollinators, such as butterflies, hoverflies and bumblebees. The central question today is whether the additional scientific evidence that has been provided with this is the reason for a ban based on the precautionary principle, which Mr Smaling also referred to, to further reduce use or to speed up further scientific research. The Labour Party's commitment is perfectly clear. Plant protection products with demonstrable health risks must, as far as we are concerned, be removed from the shelves of shops. The use of such resources in public space and agriculture must also be reduced. We do not want endless legal proceedings, by breaching a ban and then being flagged back by the judge. We also want to invest in innovation and in collaboration with producers, suppliers, users and retailers. Both Secretary of State have previously indicated that they want to move towards greening of plant protection and to reduce arthropods and neonicotinoids. They are taking clear steps in the field of plant protection products, and we appreciate this, as even Mrs Ouwehand has said. This is done on the basis of scientific research, legal opportunities and the pursuit of a level playing field at European level. Fine. Therefore, for example, the use of metam sodium has been restricted. Previous studies on the effects of neonics on bees have also led to restrictions on use. The use of arthropods is rapidly restricted. Professional and private use of plant protection products on hardening is prohibited from the beginning of next year. Professional use in non-hardened areas outside agriculture is prohibited by 2017 and private use is reduced. That's the Secretary of State's policy. However, there is an exception for the professional use of arthropods on sports grounds and recreational grounds. That is what we are concerned about, because we do not want our children to play on lawns that have been treated with this medicine. Can the Secretary of State address this particular point? As far as we are concerned, use should be speeded up here too. The garden centres have already made a major impact on the reduction of arthropods. Sales have fallen sharply, with an average of 50% in recent years. According to the gardening industry, no more available natural resources are sold. That gives to think and is worrying, because the expectation is not that the Dutch garden enthusiast will go on his knees with shovel and rake to clean the terrace. The consumer avoids.....all this proves, but does not buy the natural alternative either. Retailers expect consumers to make much more use of alternatives such as vinegar and salt. These have not been assessed by the Ctgb, but also not so good for the environment. There are alternatives, but it must be made clear which are classified as low-risk assets. This has also been mentioned many times in this Chamber. I'd like to know what's going on. The Secretary of State of I and M has promised to come back to it in the spring. I think it's spring now. Removing use is done by imposing at a state level offered and prohibited. Luckily, that's not the only thing. The ongoing conversation with society, producers, suppliers, users and retailers also gives us workable, worn and sometimes much more effective results. I have seen a passion for greening through product and process innovation, through reduction of use and emission reduction, resource savings and consumer information. The Garden Industry Netherlands is working with the Groen Brancheplan on greening plant protection in private use. Last week I was visiting the Dutch Fruit Farmers Organisation and was pleased by what I saw there. I see Mrs Ouwehand has been standing there for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u38	She's been at the Interrupt Microphone for a while. I can't get an eye contact with her, so I thought she'd wait until Mr Leenders finished his input.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u39	Yeah, maybe I should.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u40	Good. I'm almost done. Among other things, I wanted to say something about innovation. In our view, the development of viable alternative means and methods for the current method of plant protection is crucial for greening. The sectors concerned want to invest in this, but they do experience difficulties in classifying products. Is it possible to improve or accelerate procedures related to that classification? The government does a lot to invest in innovation together with sectors. One of the resources the government uses for this is the green deal. There are a number of them running and there are several green deals in preparation. We're curious to see what's going on with these green deals. Before I start with Mrs Ouwehand, I would like to make one final comment. Not only in the Netherlands, but throughout Europe there is resistance to substances that potentially harm health and the environment. The Labour Party prefers to move towards zero use of such resources. However, it prefers a gradual, feasible and sustained ban over a period of time rather than a quick ban that does not reach court. It also wants to work at the same time to achieve a feasible, sustained reduction in use through cooperation with producers, suppliers, users and retailers. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u41	Thank you very much, Mr Leenders. Perhaps Mrs Ouwehand would like to work with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u42	You've got that right, Mr. Chairman. The Labour Party speaks good words. She wants that fabric off the shelves and out of the market. Mr Leenders says on behalf of the Labour Party: better good than not legally feasible. I agree with him on this in itself, but I would like to hear an explanation of the weighting by the Labour Party on this point. After all, we are not having this debate for the first time. I have indeed said that the steps taken by this cabinet are not, in principle, wrong. There are more possibilities, however, and the Labour Party ignores that. I would like to hear a more detailed explanation, because I am trying here a little bit that the Labour Party follows the line of the cabinet that the legal problems would be too great, while more and more evidence is emerging that there are possibilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u43	Mrs Ouwehand will give you more speaking time, Mr Leenders.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u44	That is true, but I cannot do more than repeat what I have already said. At the beginning of my speech, I said that I was wondering whether the additional scientific evidence on those two examples of neonicotinoids and turnips is a reason for a ban or a strong reduction. That was my first question. If that were the case and if the legal possibilities were there, it would be our preference; that is perfectly clear. However, I must bear in mind that this is not the case. In doing so, I strongly believe in cooperation with society. We can issue prohibitions and commandments here. That's fine, that's what we're for, and we have to do it if we need to. But what we must do, above all, is look around us, talk, listen and see if we can achieve our goal in that way or perhaps in a more effective way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u45	Okay, that's gonna brighten it up a little bit. I understand that the Labour Party and the Animal Party are asking the Cabinet to look more closely at the possibilities. And perhaps I misunderstood Mr Leenders. Maybe it could cause legal problems to do something on top of what the cabinet is already doing. He is open in this and thinks that the cabinet should take a good look at the suggestions made by the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u46	Yeah, but I'd like to add something to that. The Party for Animals is very much on the way to the legal ban. We'll follow that road. We would also like to know what the Secretary of State thinks about that. I just said that we absolutely have to follow that trail. But I want more than that: I want ultimately to achieve the goal of as few substances as possible that can be harmful to health and the environment, on the shelves of shops and used in agriculture.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u47	Mr. Chairman. Weeds must be eradicated with root and branch. That is true of the weeds that thrive on fields, in streets and gardens, but certainly also for the overly patronized and fact-free decision-making that is at least as popular in this Chamber. More and more makes a proliferation of decisions, forced by a left-wing coalition, the lives of municipalities, of entrepreneurs but also of individual citizens. Roundup, or the active substance satsumas, is a means to fight weeds. It is harmless, works well and is, if well used, a great solution for municipalities that want to keep public spaces clean, for entrepreneurs who want to keep their yard, field or recreation grounds clean, but also for people who want to decide for themselves how to deal with the destruction of weeds in their own garden.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u48	I feel somewhat addressed, although I'm not a goat's wool sock and I'm sitting in the Chamber on the right. I have all supported what Mrs Lodder is talking about. I want this recorded in the Acts, and that is why I am committing this interruption. I do not do that because I am a goat wool sock or environmental activist, but because I am concerned about bee mortality and about public and animal health. That's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u49	That was your statement. You didn't ask Mrs. Lodders a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u50	I didn't hear a question from me, but I do have a need to respond to it. I shall come back to this in my speech. I told you that Roundup, or pomegranate, is a means of fighting weeds and that it is harmless, working well and, if properly used, is a good solution for municipalities that want to keep the public space clean. The fact that, in this plenary chamber of the House of Representatives, we are now holding a debate on this substance, for which at first no fewer than three directors were invited, is considered by the VVD to be absurd and unnecessary. That is absurd, because this medicine has not been shown to be harmful. The American, European and our own authorities have not identified the substance as dangerous. Germany, the Reference Member State within Europe, is constantly holding its finger on the pulse. The cancer research department of the World Health Organization states that in very large quantities there may be a risk that it is carcinogenic. This report has not yet been published. It is also absurd because municipalities, entrepreneurs and people are very well able to decide for themselves how they want to maintain their way, terrain or backyard. It is also absurd because it is impossible to maintain a ban. People are challenged to seek other solutions. I refer to an article in the Friesch Dagblad in which we can read that the product is simply ordered via the Internet in Poland or Germany. There it is widely available in often a different composition than we are used to here in the Netherlands, with all the consequences. It's unnecessary, too. This cabinet isn't there to get in the way of people with rules that don't solve any problems. Let us be honest: if something is not harmful, then there is no problem either, and if there is no problem, then there is no reason for this Chamber or this cabinet to come up with a solution or, rather, a false solution. It's a sham solution, because people are looking for ways to use this medicine anyway. Alternatives are costly and environmentally damaging. Take, for example, the municipality of Purmerend, where I particularly look at Mr Graus. The report Environmentally friendly alternatives show that this municipality for brushing has lost more than €370,000 extra. When burning weeds that is almost €480,000 extra and when steaming as much as €459,000 extra. We are not talking about the pollution of the environment through diesel use, combustion or heating processes, damage to hardening, noise and dust pollution and the effects of alternatives presented by Mr Geurts in his state. There are also other decisions above the market.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u51	I'm tasting a little bit about you going to the next block. Before you do that, I give Mr Schouw the opportunity to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u52	It's a little straight forward, which I do love in my own right. However, I was wondering whether Mrs Lodder was missing a few things. I have also told Mr Geurts the letters we constantly receive from the waterboards, in which they indicate that there is too much rubbish in the water, which is not good for the people and which costs a lot to get it out. This is just to mention a little problem. Does Mrs Lodder, like Mr Geurts, now say that it is mainly foreign water and that it is not our water?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u53	No, I'm not saying that. Measurements have been made and here and there we have steps to take. At the same time, I have not spoken for nothing about false solutions. A decision must be based on facts and not on gut feelings. The report referred to by almost all parties here has not yet been published. All kinds of re-evaluations were then carried out. Besides, you're not here with such a ban. At the moment, this medicine is simply ordered over the internet and used in very different doses. The effects on the environment are many times greater and more dangerous than when using this product that we can buy in the right composition in the garden centres.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u54	I'm just really trying to take a small point, and that's that the waterboards say: our water is full of pesticides.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u55	They don't say.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u56	They also say: it costs us a lot of money to get the residues out and if you start measuring at 50% of the places that concentration is high. I'll take that as a given. I also hope that Mrs Lodder will do that. Well, we're gonna have to do something about that, aren't we? Of course, Poland is a problem and the water flowing into the Netherlands from Germany via the Rhine is a problem, but is it not our task as political parties to urge the cabinet to take steps to cleanse our water from pesticide residues?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u57	I distance myself from the suggestion that our water is full of plant protection products, timing agents or poison, as Mrs Ouwehand describes it. That is by no means the case. The problems raised by measurements relate not only to these resources but also to all kinds of other aspects. That is where steps are being taken, and we must do so responsibly, but the decisions that the left-wing majority in this Chamber favour are a sham solution. People are looking for other ways to use resources. Just now the example of vinegar came along. I would like to refer to the predecessor of Secretary of State Mansveld, Mr Atsma, who uses vinegar in his own garden. Do you know what the effects on the environment are when you use vinegar?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u58	I'm sure Mr Schouw will know that, especially when he puts it on his kale. I would like to put a slightly different question to Mrs Lodders. By the way, I am not in the left-wing coalition, but in a coalition with the VVD, and I like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u59	An occasional coalition.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u60	Okay, an opportunity coalition. Mrs Lodders mentioned it herself, but this morning I read in an article in De Gelderlander that she is going through her own garden with a watering pin Roundup. I'd be a little careful with that anyway. But apart from that, the question is whether we are going to ban a substance on the basis of a gut feeling. Mrs. Lodders just mentioned that gut feeling. We are talking about one of the most renowned institutes in the world, the World Health Organisation, which makes a statement on this. She can't be serious, can she?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u61	I indicated in my speech that this is an investigation that has not yet been published. Three authorities, namely the Dutch, the European and also the American authorities, then carried out an investigation. Germany, which is the rapporteur of the European Member State, is working with a large number of documents to see to what extent it is necessary to impose additional conditions. My group has confidence in these authorities. The example of metam sodium has already been discussed in other interrupting debates. I agree with the fact that measures need to be taken on the basis of facts. But then it must be based on facts, not on a gut feeling.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u62	That last statement is exactly what we're talking about. Smoking has not been conclusively proven to be bad for health either. Smoking also doesn't give you 100% sure of cancer. It has to do with science. Science is a matter of building. What is happening now is a floor on the structure of science. It's a step further in a certain direction. I think that Mrs Lodder's statement, which she frequently does, does not take science entirely seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u63	I'm really gonna distance myself from that. Again, if we look at what has been done by Germany, a European Member State, as rapporteur, and if we look at the Ctgb, the European authority and the US authority, then the reports, if they have been published and if there is a result, will be taken seriously. That is a good thing, because then we can make decisions on the basis of facts and not on the basis of gut feelings, which we too often and too much go along with in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u64	In order to avoid repetition of moves, I submitted municipalities to the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs last year or perhaps two years ago, as well as names of companies that can do non-chemical weed control cheaper than chemical weed control. Now I hear from Mrs Lodders that it is more expensive, for example in the municipality of Purmerend, but who knows, they may have hung a tractor of three tonnes for such a device. I don't know. Maybe the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs can listen immediately to the Association of Dutch Municipalities see which municipalities and which companies can do it cheaper, and then discuss it nationally in a consultation. That's a little trouble, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u65	What's the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u66	Here's what I wanted to say. Mrs Lodders spoke to me because I said in my first term that non-chemical weed control through steam is cheaper. Mrs Lodders opposed that by saying that Purmerend seems to be so much more expensive. However, I do not know what the reason for this is. Maybe they bought a very expensive tractor for that, but I don't know. What I would like to leave with the Secretary of State and with MP Lodders is that through the Association of Dutch Municipalities we will see which municipalities have been able to do it cheaper and to involve them and to have them advise municipalities that have now lost more money. How's Mrs. Lodder in there?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u67	We can explore alternatives until we're on our own. In his contribution, Mr Geurts has shown a state in which Wageningen University has demonstrated where combating is more expensive or more burdensome for the environment. I will send Mr Graus Purmerend's report. If municipalities agree, I have no problem with that, but let us not interfere as Chambers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u68	With all due respect, this is a piece of paper. Mrs Lodders has suggested municipalities for which it is more expensive, but I have suggested municipalities that can be cheaper. Let us look at that and make it cheaper. Apparently, I can. Maybe those expensive municipalities are doing something wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u69	Mr. Graus took up a page from a study by Wageningen University. I have indicated that it is okay for municipalities to enter into conversation with each other, but let us not interfere as a Chamber. Leave it to the municipalities. If they can learn from each other, that's good. I distance myself from the term "a rag of paper," because it is a page from a thorough research by Wageningen University. And we have to take these kinds of agencies seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u70	Mrs. Lodders is a sort of sink remover: she pushes three times and the MPs go out of the sink one after the other. I have mentioned the examples of DDT and asbestos. Looking back, will Mrs Lodder also have to admit that we have been late, that there has been progressing insight? Surely we could end up in such a situation with neonicotinoids and arthropods? The word "underbelly" isn't appropriate, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u71	If we look back at the past, which is true of the issues raised by Mr Smaling, but also of plant protection products, then we can see that steps have been taken on the basis of research and facts. I call the plant protection product parathion, a very dangerous product which is not prohibited for nothing. Innovation has created new resources. You see that happen all the time. We have learned from that. We have the national, European and American authority. We have appointed Member States to be the rapporteur. We have even divided Europe into a number of regions to see how to deal with admission. We are doing this very seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u72	Now, Mrs Lodder's approach is a bit my way, but this innovation encourages you to withdraw this type of resource at the right time or to work towards a reduction in its use. And that is not the case with Mrs Lodders. If I link her story to her desire to develop alternative means, then I think it can only be done if you take the old money out of the trade. If the WHO puts a substance on the category 2A list, it's not nothing. I hope Mrs Lodder will admit that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u73	I'll repeat it again. The WHO has indicated that, in the case of very large quantities, there may be a risk that the product may be carcinogenic. So those are the necessary ifs and buts. The investigation has not been published, so we cannot yet take note of it. You have to do it on the basis of facts and not on the basis of gut feelings. Taking a product out of the market has an opposite effect. If we take it out of the market and get it over the Internet in other Member States with a very different composition, then the consequences are many times greater than we are selling it carefully at the right dosage. We need a good package leaflet for how the medicine can be used responsibly. You don't promote innovation by taking something out of the trade. Innovation comes from entrepreneurs who are working on their products, who are working on their fields in the most responsible and inexpensive way. There is no entrepreneur, in agriculture, in recreation or at the HISWA, who just thinks for the niceness: I get my sprayer out of the barn. Nobody does, because that costs euros, a lot of euros.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u74	Mrs Lodders said earlier that you should take important organs seriously in this country. Does she take the Vewin seriously?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u75	I don't know which way you want to go with this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u76	I quote from a message from the Vewin: "The ban on weed-fighting... must enter immediately. This way, large quantities of the pesticide will be prevented from returning to our drinking water sources this season." Would Mrs Lodders still like to respond to this in the context of the non-fact-free debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u77	I can only conclude that such a ruling was not made on the basis of facts. I repeat, but if we take seriously the various independent authorities, our Ctgb, our European Supervisory Authority, the US Supervisory Authority, the work of the rapporteur Member State, Germany, seriously, I come to a different conclusion. In addition, I pointed out in response to an interruption by Mr Smaling that it was stated in the Friesch Dagblad that people will buy Roundup after a ban on the Internet in Poland and Germany. This leads to more use and it is also worse for the environment and our drinking water supply.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u78	Mrs Ouwehand, you've already had two interruptions. I said at the beginning: two interruptions with one follow-up question. So...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u79	I would like to make one comment. I won't ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u80	That's an interruption, too. I know what you're saying. They never consist of a sentence, but they always consist of a whole text block. I give you the opportunity to make one comment from one sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u81	Thank you very much for the coulance, Mr. Chairman. I find it shocking to dismiss the warnings as gut feelings. I would like to ask Mrs Lodders to take back that statement, because people are indeed concerned about the cancer they may suffer from the use of this kind of medicine.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u82	In response to interruptions, I have already indicated enough on which I base myself. We can have a debate on the facts together, but that is not yet on the table, given the statements made by all those authorities worldwide. Mr. Chairman. There are other decisions above the market, because the same left-wing majority is in favour of a ban on means to fight insects and beetles. These are substances that are also used in the fleaband of dogs and cats. That's regulation beyond the front door. This left-wing majority also wants a ban on triazoles, a fungal control agent used in agriculture, but which is also an active substance in many household, garden and kitchen products such as paint, kit, wallpaper glue and cleaning products. The Gamma and the Praxis are full of them. It shows a great urge to remove these resources. I conclude my speech with a number of questions to the Secretary of State. Why does the Secretary of State make this kind of ridiculous decisions on the basis of a gut feeling? Does the Secretary of State have sufficient confidence in the independent review authorities and, if so, can it certainly do anything other than wipe out this patronizing urge? Why does the cabinet use these kinds of topics to bully entrepreneurs? We allow entrepreneurs to invest in expensive machines to use resources as efficiently as possible, sustainable weed management, the DOK method, and then to introduce a ban on the use of hardening and even ultimately to seek a total ban. How does the cabinet legitimise this policy? What do these kind of nonsensical decisions mean for the NVWA, for example? What activities is the NVWA going to leave in the coming months, as it is commissioned to check that people with a boat use the anti-fouling paint in the right way? I would like to quote a remark from the Secretary of State himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u83	Thank you, Madam President. What a feast it is to be able to speak here under your command! The future of our food supply depends on a good ecosystem and on a lot of biodiversity. Now, several studies show that neonics...... I understand that I can summarize it.... have negative effects on the ecosystem and biodiversity. I can provide a whole collection of evidence for that, but I'm not going to do that because I was always under the impression that this was common knowledge, that everyone knew this was a bit dangerous stuff. The European Academies Science Advisory Council has now also written a very hard report. The Secretary of State has read that report and it worries her, as I read in her response. I welcome that, because it also worries my group. The question is what does the Secretary of State do with this concern, partly in view of the fact that a number of motions adopted by this Chamber are not being carried out. Mr Graus pointed that out too. These things are a little bit out of sync. I urge the Secretary of State to indicate exactly how she intends to materialise that concern and at what time it will do so. We are also talking here about the future of our food supply. A broken ecosystem is not going to help us get food, and the economy is going to notice it in the long run. You can have a vision in the short term to leave everything to the old; that's a bit of an old-fashioned view of the economy. You can also have a more modern view of the economy, a long-term vision, but then it must all be sustainable. The use of neonics in greenhouse horticulture seems to have been tightened in 2014. An advanced water treatment plant is now required. Did you get any of that? How many of these installations are in the Netherlands now? Or are we kidding each other a little bit? I have heard sounds that no company has one and that there is no supervision at all. Are those sounds true? It also appears that all the measures taken previously have little effect. The most recent measurement results presented by Greenpeace show that the number of standard exceedances has increased rather than decreased compared to the previous year. Can the Secretary of State respond to that? Is my conclusion correct that there is actually insufficient movement towards nature-friendly crop protection products? Or am I not seeing this and Greenpeace is not doing it right? As Mrs Ouwehand has said, these recent data seem to give the D66 Group sufficient reason to do a little more. Depending on the re-evaluation and given the large-scale use, I ask the Secretary of State to do just a little more than she intends to do. Mr Smaling also said it strikingly: what is the route to a national ban on the use of neonics? Let me mention a date; if we want a national ban on use by 1 January 2016, what should happen? A lot has been said about Roundup glyphosate. The International Agency for Cancer Research has identified the stuff as "probably carcinogenic" for humans. Then my group will also be ringing all the alarm bells. If it is likely to be carcinogenic, you must of course apply the precautionary principle. In the event of interruption, it has also been made clear that water supply companies are also calling the bell. More needs to be done on this point. In this respect, it is becoming enough for our group. There must be no more tampering. It's about our food, our water and the environment. I therefore call on both Secretary of State to stop the destruction of our ecosystem. I'm gonna finish up. My group wants three things: a re-evaluation of the authorisation of neonics, pending that re-evaluation a national ban on use as of 1 January 2016 and a ban on the use of arthropods. I also believe that everything Mr Graus has said about bees and bumblebees is right. This was meant as a tribute to Mr Graus, but unfortunately he is no longer here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u84	That's too bad, but he can read it back in the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u85	Mr. Chairman. The European Union has withdrawn a proposal to ban 31 harmful pesticides under pressure from US TTIP negotiators. That's what The Guardian reported last week. This shows not only that we must be concerned that TTIP will lead to lower European standards in the future, but also that far-reaching concessions are already being made in the negotiations as we speak. Does the Secretary of State agree with my group that it is unacceptable that we continue to allow harmful pesticides because of trade interests or the interests of the chemical industry? Almost four years ago, with the support of my group, the Chamber adopted the Grashoff motion calling for a ban on the use of fertilizers outside agriculture. The Secretary of State states that a sales ban is not legally possible, but as far as my group is concerned, there is no reason not to proceed immediately to a ban on private use. The sector doesn't need a checkout. Then I have no confidence that the same sector will succeed in halving sales within a year and a half, as the Secretary of State intends. It has clearly been shown that our surface and drinking water contains far too high concentrations of pebble. The letter from Vewin has already been quoted and that it is harmful to animals and the environment and therefore also to humans. So why don't we just turn to a ban on use? How does the Secretary of State judge Germany's premature reaction to the preliminary research results? Is it not worrying that Germany, as an evaluating Member State, is making such a quick assessment? More and more information is coming about the harmfulness of neonicotinoids. In the honeybee there were more causes for mortality, such as the notorious varroa mite. Now it appears that it can be harmful for many more insects and also for birds. My group appreciates the way in which the Secretary of State has acted in recent years in reviewing authorisations. I would like to hear from her how the process continues now, also in relation to opinions of the Ctgb and EFSA. The study by the European Academies, Mr Schouw, referred to the whole name "Schoop," serves as input for the European Commission to make a final decision on the use of neonicotinoids, which was banned for two years in 2013. When does the Secretary of State expect a final decision on this matter? Let me be clear, my group believes that the preventive use of chemical substances in the form of seed coating is a technical solution that is good for now, but cannot be a final goal. Can the Secretary of State give an update on the measures to be taken to counter the standard overruns of neonicotinoids in surface water, such as water treatment by greenhouse horticulture? It is now important that we take the necessary steps as quickly as possible towards organic and more nature-friendly plant protection products. Authorisation procedures should be speeded up and the obstacles to sustainability removed. Firstly, a list of permitted low-risk means should be drawn up as soon as possible so that companies can make the changeover. A concern of my group is that these substances can also be harmful if they are applied in higher doses. We just need to be honest about that. They can then be so harmful that they affect the quality of drinking water. Is the Secretary of State prepared to test low-risk substances for the effects on drinking water quality? I am as curious as Mr Geurts about the list of low-risk assets. In the light of the elected chamber motion, that list must be established quickly. My second point concerns the implementation of my adopted motion on speeding up the registration of basic substances in the European context, such as milk and beer. Can the Secretary of State undertake to promote a European approach to the registration of basic substances, so that we can jointly achieve rapid results? Finally, I come to the workable sustainable alternatives to the use of metam sodium. The Secretary of State has now put forward a proposal to make it possible to extend the tearing of grassland in order to enable the cultivation of Tagetes (africans) prior to, for example, the cultivation of lilies while at the same time ensuring that dairy farmers can remove two cuts of grass from their land. However, it appears that dairy farmers do not want to rent out their land for one year for the cultivation of Tagetes, because they then no longer comply with the derogation requirement of 80% grassland. So it seems to lead to a false solution. Is the Secretary of State prepared to come up with a workable solution in order to make as expensive plant protection as an alternative to metam sodium possible by 2015?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u86	I am speaking with Members of this House in total of two interruptions with one follow-up question. Well, for two rulers, however, that seems to me to be a little tight, so I deal with that flexibly. First of all, the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u87	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I will deal with the general system of admission of funds and, of course, also lay down the principles of government policy. In my second block I will go into what has been inserted from the Chamber about the neonicotinoids, which I will now just call "neonics," if only because it is shorter. I will answer one question, which is about the use of turnips in agriculture, but of course Secretary of State Mansveld will take on the broader subject of turnips. Finally, I will answer some questions about the low-risk funds; that is my fourth block. I shall begin with the general points of government policy. I think it is good to note that we are working with the Chamber on a transition towards greening plant protection products and a food production that is less dependent on plant protection products. We are committed to this at both national and European level, and we are working to reduce the use of so-called high-risk substances. That includes the neonics, but it also includes turnips. At the same time, we want to move faster towards prevention, integrated plant protection and extending the resource package with more greener low-risk plant protection products. At the same time, with the Chamber, I attach great importance to the level playing field for the Dutch agro-industry. That is why we are taking steps not only in the Netherlands but also in Europe. In addition, we must, of course, keep the opportunity to act against diseases and plagues. Mrs Ouwehand, just to pick up the sharp point in the debate, she agreed with the steps that were being taken, but she felt that more could be done. She's been saying that a little longer than today. She keeps wondering, like a number of other Members of Parliament, why we are not acting even more firmly or differently. For that, it is necessary to say something about how this admission system works. We also announced this on 26 November 2014 and we wrote about it in the letter of 12 May 2014. A very clear procedure and a clear legislative framework have been agreed in Europe. Mr Smaling said that we do not really like it; we think that this is a disadvantage of European integration. That is what we have to stick to, whether we like it or not. This means that in Europe, each active substance is assessed in a harmonised manner on the basis of a dossier before approval at European level. Approval can only be given if safe use is possible. In fact, the precautionary principle advocated by spokesmen is simply in the system itself. Subsequently, the active substance-based substances should be authorised nationally. In our country, this is done through the Ctgb. Once again, this will only happen if an assessment has shown that safe use is possible for the purpose of the product in a crop. The product should then be used in accordance with the prescribed conditions of use. In the end, the supervisors, the NVWA but also the Inspection Environment and Transport must monitor and enforce this. If there are grounds, for example on the basis of new scientific research, to no longer meet the conditions for admission, then a review will take place at European or national level which could lead to re-evaluation. This may result in intervention in the authorisation. In fact, that is exactly the first step when you would like, for example, to move towards a ban. You just have to go through that step. By the way, every active substance and every product is periodically, every 10 years, re-evaluated in accordance with the latest scientific framework. Mr Smaling's question was: how far are we in Europe now and what can we do at national level with emergency measures on the high-risk resource dossier that concerns us? I have only briefly summarized that question. If a serious risk of the authorisation of a product has been identified, for example by the Ctgb, on the basis of a verifiable scientific indication, a protective emergency measure may be taken on the basis of Article 71 of the legislation. This must then be reported in Europe. I did that once. The suggestion that this is not happening in the Netherlands is therefore incorrect. We did that to the drug called metam sodium, the soil disinfectant. That was possible because there was scientifically validated evidence of serious risks. This is crucial in this discussion. That's what it's always about when it comes to how far you can go with working towards a ban. Mr. Smaling has...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u88	I'd say finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u89	I now turn to answering another question in this block, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u90	I shall now give the floor to Mr Schouw.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u91	The Secretary of State spoke of the pair of words "serious risks." In my opinion, it is always a weighting, because where does a normal risk stand and the serious risk begin? I think you can think of something political about that, too. Can the Secretary of State comment on what happened, for example, in the case she mentioned earlier?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u92	It's two things. You can think of anything politically, but you have to be careful that you do not come to a ban on a means on political grounds. This is not legally sustainable either, but I am sure Mr Schouw knows this better than I do. This means that you always have to have a scientifically validated study showing a direct causal link between a substance and the risk. What we have seen so far, for example, with the neonates, is that there are risks, and also scientific reports, but that these reports did indicate a relationship, but not always a causal link. Then we are in the field of science. My adagium there is that I should eventually follow EFSA and Ctgb in these kinds of issues, because I cannot move freely in them. I cannot accept their advice as a scientific fact one time, this is it, and the next time, because I may not like it personally, I will decide to depart from it. They therefore also assess on the basis of a causal link and not only on the basis of a correlation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u93	That causality may also be there, which is often there, but is then expressed as a weak causality or a strong causality. It's also a little bespoke and weighing. Does the Secretary of State say that, if there is any form of causality and hence risk, we should consider banning it? Are those the two criteria?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u94	No, because there's just legislation for that. It clearly prescribes how the admission procedures work and on what grounds, for example, a review of an authorisation can be made. For example, in the neonicotinoids, that has also happened. On the basis of an initiative by the Netherlands, these were addressed to EFSA in Europe. There, too, we have been able to achieve a limited use of the product. Then part of the Chamber says: we do not think that is enough. Now there are reports appearing over and over again that concern me not only, but with which I also do something. I shall go into this more fully in a moment. I do so in accordance with the directives and the regulations that are in place. You can act as an activist in that. I think that's the point. At the time of reports, you can say: we are waiting, because maybe EFSA will do something about it. I'm not. You can also say: this concerns me, I am actively going to ask for a re-evaluation. I've done that before with the neonics and the drug, Monam. In the latter case, it has led to an emergency measure and a drastic adjustment of use. I have now re-enacted this with both the Ctgb and EFSA, with a copy to all my European colleagues, to let them know that we have these concerns and that we have asked for a re-evaluation. We are all awaiting that actual re-evaluation. I would like to come to that in the second block in a little more detail, because questions have also been asked about, for example, the surface water standards that still have to be answered. That's what we're looking at. As far as I am concerned, this will be dealt with in such a way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u95	The Secretary of State's sketch of what she's doing is correct. Thanks and appreciation for that. I have the impression that the Secretary of State has finished sketching out the legal possibilities. Can it comment on the difference between asking for a re-evaluation; an emergency measure, which it has indeed taken in the case of metam-sodium............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... You can already say on the basis of a correlation: we have concerns and we intend to take action; we are starting the regular procedure. Then there is hearing and hearing, the burden of proof is reversed and the business community can prove that our concerns are unjustified. In previous debates and in the action plan, the Secretary of State did not address this issue, although there is case law on these legal possibilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u96	I think we have had the debate on this. I tried to argue at that time that the time when you ask for a re-evaluation, for example, is the same as when you start a new procedure. In the end, then, hearing again and again must take place. That is what happened with metam sodium, for example. Then the industry must come up with evidence. Then, on the basis of the available investigation, the Ctgb could then be assessed by, in this case, the Ctgb that this risk could have been validated in such a way that that emergency measure could be applied. In other words, the pivot point is formed not so much by the procedure, but by the evidence. That is important for this debate. The evidence there is is the basis on which you can or cannot take action. The problem so far with the studies that showed, for example, that there was not so much damage to only the bees, but possibly also to other insects, was that there was a correlation in those studies, but that there was no evidence of a causal link. That was different with Monam. This meant that there was a legally sustainable basis for taking a so-called emergency measure. That is why I asked if we could look again at the study of the academies. On this basis, but also on the basis of the accelerated availability of surface water data, the Ctgb will be reviewed for the summer. Of course, I'll send it straight to the Chamber. I shall say a little more about this later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u97	It's getting a little technical. The Secretary of State is right to say that asking for such a review could be seen as a first step of the regular procedure. I agree with her. However, the disagreement remains that this could also be done without the Ctgb test. You can also start that regular procedure yourself in public. It is an important objection that we will not be able to test the evidence that business will then deliver in public. The Secretary of State finds that annoying, as I know. I would ask her to consider the possibility in between, also because the European Treaty, for the functioning of the European Union, clearly allows us to take that step with the precautionary principle.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u98	Perhaps it is right to quote Mr Grashoff's words. He said that the debate should not go in such a way that the cabinet explains why it cannot. He wants to hear how it can be done. Of course, I put that question at the Ctgb. That's important to say here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u99	This is an eviction bell, so I'm suspending the meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u100	Mr. Chairman. After this suspension, I'm gonna try to get back together. I need to get back in there. The question was...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u101	Mr. Smaling, you've already had an interruption?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u102	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I was just getting ready for an interruption when you set off the alarm. If it's okay, I'd like to post that interruption. We had an important point to make. Of course, some legal advice has been sought on the legal framework for the review of authorisations. Article 44 of the Regulation on the placing of plant protection products on the market provides that Member States may review an authorisation at any time if there is evidence that the requirements for authorisation are no longer met. This is mainly about the word 'instructions'. That's different from a causal relationship. In fact, clues are even less than a correlation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u103	That's right. On the basis of that article, for example, you can ask the Ctgb to look again at a number of things. That's what I've done. So it's not like we don't have that article in use. There is only a misunderstanding as to whether this should be included in the text of Mrs Ouwehand, which is the subject of a whole new procedure. Mrs Ouwehand even said that the burden of proof should be reversed. You can also use the article, or Article 71, to look at things again. That's what we do all the time. I think that article is a living article in cabinet policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u104	That's clear. Now to the question of metam sodium. The Secretary of State has been active on that. Should we perhaps be very satisfied with that and therefore be less demanding about the substances we are talking about today? There appear to be the same possibilities for introducing a national ban on use for these substances as those used in metam sodium. Is that right? Does the Secretary of State make every effort to do so? Is that what she says?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u105	Yeah, that's what I'm saying. The difference is just, again, in the evidence. My commitment to metam sodium was no different than with the neonics, only the outcome differs. In this case, this is not due to the use of the cabinet, but to the hardness of the evidence. That evidence, for example, allows you to take a follow-up step in the context of an emergency measure. In the case of the means by which we used this emergency measure, there was such validated evidence that it would lead to serious risks, in this case also to public health, that this would be possible. To date, there has been a problem with the burden of proof in the debate on neonicotinoids, but it has led to an adjustment of the authorisation. This has already been done at European level. Then there were new investigations. I have looked at one of these: the research that was in Nature, I think I am saying this out of my mind, but I have to be very precise about EFSA and at least about Ctgb. The problem was that in that study a correlation was demonstrated, but no causal link. In other words, the evidence was just less harsh than it was for methane sodium. That was the difference, not in the procedure that had been initiated or in the resources that had been used. I can't help it. Among others, Mr Graus asked what we are going to do about the level playing field within the Union. On 12 May we sent a letter to the Chamber explaining this. I shall now summarize this very briefly. There are agreements between the authorities at European level on further harmonisation of the so-called assessment guidelines. Expert workshops are planned to further promote this harmonisation of the assessment. A national list of specific environmental or agricultural circumstances to be assessed shall be established. In the case of exemptions from admission in emergency situations, of course, we always look at what the neighbouring countries are doing. Mr Grashoff asked whether it would be possible, pending investigations, to impose a temporary ban in greenhouse horticulture areas. I explained in the letter of the Chamber on the procedure for intervention in the authorisation of plant protection products, which was, in fact, the subject of the debate all the time, that a serious risk must first be identified. This should indicate that the conditions for admission are no longer met. If the Ctgb or EFSA finds this, a ban may be issued through an emergency measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u106	I can follow that reasoning when it comes to the admission of a means in general. But it seems to me that the regulations are clashing very hard here. There is also legislation on water quality which is far from being met. The reason for this, the means by which the exceedances occur and the results of the measurements are quite obvious. Several policy alternatives have been tried in recent years, but this rule is still not being complied with. Is the Secretary of State not forced, through water quality regulations, to restrict the use of these resources?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u107	That could be very good. We have called for a re-evaluation on the basis of the latest report from the European Academies, for example, for the neonics. In addition, we have asked for the measurement results of surface water to be accelerated, because we also have a basis for action on this basis. I get those results before the summer; I don't have them yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u108	That sounds hopeful. The Secretary of State actually says: I do not have certain measurement results on these exceedances yet. The latter surprises me a little, because I think it is standardized by all our waterboards. I have information from the waterboards of still free recent measurements, as from previous years, showing these facts. What the Secretary of State says would be very good, but does she not ask for measurement results on the known path?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u109	No, that's not what we're asking. There are undoubtedly all kinds of measurement results, but now we have asked for two things. So we are on two tracks. We have submitted the most recent studies of the European Academies to the Ctgb and EFSA, with the question of whether this will lead to a re-evaluation of the product. That's trail one. The second track is that I have asked the Ctgb for these resources to look at the accelerated availability of surface water results and possible exceedances, and on that basis to assess whether this should give rise to a different application of the product. Both are now assessed by the Ctgb. So, I think in June, the story will come to me. On that basis, I will inform the Chamber. So the Chamber gets reports about that before the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u110	Mrs Ouwehand, let me tell you that this will be your second interruption. So you're done talking to this Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u111	I hope, then, that in her further reply, she will only say things that are clear and fit in my style.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u112	I can't promise that. I can promise that clarity, but I do not know whether it fits in with Mrs Ouwehand's style.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u113	We're just gonna try. My question concerns this point. I now reason from the argument put forward by the cabinet itself on proportionality, regardless of whether I agree with it or not. Measures have been taken to promote water quality. These measures went less far than the total ban requested by the Court. We have already received signals that these measures have not worked. We have the data on the waterboards and it shows that the standards are still being exceeded there. The question is, how does that work? In my view, if the Secretary of State has that information in the near future, we can conclude that less far-reaching measures have been tried, that they have not worked and that this is therefore a justification for intervention. My first question is, is that correct? My second question is: does the Secretary of State leave that to the Ctgb, or does she decide?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u114	I follow the advice of the Ctgb. I've done that with metam sodium, I've done that with the neonicotinoids before, and I'll do that again now. As I have already said to Mr Schouw, a decision on such a means is not taken on the basis of political considerations. That decision must be made on the basis of the laws and regulations applicable to our country as well. That's important. In addition, the results of surface water standards will have to be assessed. The Ctgb will then have to assess whether these results are indeed related to the measures previously taken and whether the measures previously adopted have not worked. The latter is suggested by Mrs Ouwehand, but for me that has not yet been defined. That's exactly what the Ctgb should be looking at. That is why I do not have the relevant data yet, because it is more than just measuring water standards. A problem with the previous studies was, among other things, that it presented the results of years prior to limiting the product. The scientific reasoning was therefore always: perhaps the earlier measure on limiting the use of neonates has produced more results than the studies carried out in a further past would now show. It's really complicated, I agree. I'm trying to be as clear as I can, but it keeps coming down to the fact that we just need hard evidence for causality.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u115	Mrs. Ouwehand, briefly please.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u116	I understand. The Secretary of State therefore leaves the assessment of the effects of measures taken to the Ctgb. My question is who then takes the decision on proportionality. Measures have been tried on water treatment plants, which do not go that far. There is a good chance that we will have to conclude that these measures have not worked. Is it then the Secretary of State who says that there is now room for further policy? Or does it leave the weighting of proportionality to the Ctgb? I don't think that's the place.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u117	I think it's about the Ctgb being able to show me a scientific analysis that shows me that I'm a little ahead of schedule, but I shouldn't do that too much, because there's a relationship between a given result and whether a measure works. It may also be that this measure can work well in itself, but that someone does not stick to it. These are matters that we must have judged. It is really important to let the Ctgb do its job on this point. I'm not the Ctgb. Of course, the cabinet has a responsibility to support a particular approach. They are also my initiatives, for example from the concerns that arise from studies that allow us to move things further, but sometimes the Ctgb operates on its own. Ctgb doesn't necessarily need politics for that. I would like to say here that the Ctgb is an independent body. We didn't set it up like that for nothing. The Ctgb is doing its job. This means that sometimes it also comes with assessments which, for example, are very difficult for farmers in practice, but have to be carried out. That's how I look at it. Mr Leenders asked whether the additional scientific evidence would justify a further and accelerated ban on the use of either nicotinic products or neonics. I have already informed the Chamber that the government is in any case committed to a transition to greening and a food production that is less dependent on plant protection products. That's what we're committed to. That means a few things. We've just discussed the reports in detail. We ensure that they lead to action, namely a re-evaluation. We are looking at what is now and whether, on the basis of this, you should not come to a different admission from that which is now available. Mrs Dik-Faber asked if I agreed with her that it would be unacceptable for us to lower the level of protection for the authorisation of plant protection products under TTIP. I take a very clear view of this: the Cabinet takes the view that the TTIP agreement should not lead to a reduction in European standards in different areas, including food safety and plant protection. Then I come to my second block: the neonics. I have actually said quite a lot about this. So I will try to keep it as short as possible. Mr Smaling asked about the technical situation and the route to a total ban. That keeps coming back to us in the debate between us. That is why, I think, it is good to say something about that. The Member State has the possibility to intervene in accordance with Article 44 of the Regulation. This may be done by the Member State where there is scientific evidence that the eligibility criteria are no longer met. In the event of a serious risk, an emergency measure may be necessary and temporary prohibitions may be introduced. That's what we did with metam sodium. In all cases, here it comes! The authorisation authority Ctgb shall establish this. Moreover, it must be reported to the European Union. For the neonics I have asked Ctgb once again to re-evaluate the authorisation of the funds in the Netherlands and to indicate whether this re-evaluation gives the Ctgb the opportunity to withdraw authorisations of funds. I await that judgment now. The Chamber will have that very soon. Mrs Ouwehand asked why we should not simply reverse the burden of proof: the authorisation holder must then demonstrate safety. This is not possible under European law, because the burden of proof already lies with the authorisation holder, who has to prove that the product is safe. Once authorised means are simply lawful on the market. It can only be banned if new facts become known. Then the authorisation of the product can be restricted. That's what happened to both metam sodium and neonics. Here too, there must be a solid scientific basis. Mr Graus has asked what else we are doing to ensure, in particular, food security and the contributions made by bees to our society. I think it is very important to note with him that biodiversity is still to be discussed this evening in general consultations. One example of this is the promotion of the so-called functional agri-biodiversity edges, the green crop edges, within the framework of the common agricultural policy. Another example is that we started the Bee Council. This focuses on the conservation of bees, where the focus is on the food supply, including through the pregnancy plant. There is also attention to education, information exchange and so on. Mr Geurts asked about the import of the so-called killer bees and asked what we are doing. Well, we work together with many civil society organisations through the Bee Health Action Programme for the health of bees. One of the actions is the genetic enhancement of the bee against diseases such as varroasis. The beekeeper associations do that. Of course, the import and control of bees are subject to strict rules and conditions. The NVWA will see to that. Then I come to Mrs Dik-Faber's question about the ban on fertilizers in agriculture, as I understand it. Secretary of State Mansveld will take all other points on this subject. In agriculture, the use of the product is necessary because there are no alternatives. The focus is on integrated plant protection by all users within agriculture. Of course, we will have to work very hard together on alternatives, because they are very important. I'm getting to my last block now. Several Members have said this about the so-called low-risk means. Mr Graus asked about the state of his motion to replace chemicals with non-chemicals. In the note Healthy growth, sustainable harvest we have a common thread, namely eight principles of integrated plant protection, as a starting point. This has also been established at European level. This means prevention, then applying non-chemical measures and methods and as a "last resort" applying chemical plant protection products. That is in line with Mr Graus' motion. Mr Leenders asked a question about the classification of low-risk assets. In the European Group on Low Risk, we are now working on additional assessment criteria to be established for the low risk substances in the regulation. The Commission is expected to present a proposal for the definition of chemicals and micro-organisms in June. This proposal will then be discussed in the working group and will then have to be adopted by the Member States in the so-called'standing committee on Plants, Animal, Food and Feed'. The Netherlands participates actively in this working group. We are in favour of speeding up, but I do not think that an alleyway is useful. We really need to establish this at European level. What we are doing is that the Ctgb has done its best to look at the possibilities of stimulating or accelerating the assessment of resources within existing frameworks. On this point there was a question from Mr Leenders and rather a request from Mrs Jacobi. Mrs Jacobi then asked: can't you put them on top of the pile from below? That is quite clear and it is something that is being looked at. If it fails, we will consult with the Commission and EFSA to develop frameworks for these resources. I would also urge the Agriculture Council to work on this quickly. Mrs Mansveld will say a few things about the green deals, but in a green deal green plant protection products, the Netherlands is working on those faster assessment processes. I come to Mrs Ouwehand's question on fungal pesticides. Does the Ctgb know the warnings of Radboud University? What do I think of the Ctgb's behaviour? The Ctgb is investigating for us whether it is possible or necessary to intervene now in existing authorisations and ongoing applications for funds based on triazoles. The Ctgb recently announced that it is not possible to combat resistance development with appropriate and targeted measures. No causal relationship has been established between the development of resistance and the use of these pesticides. In order to be able to take action, research is needed and this is taken into account in a so-called knowledge gap study. We will inform the Court of Justice about this in the near future. Then I come to the last point, Mrs Dik-Faber's question about Monam, about metam sodium and the tearing of grassland. I have answered questions in writing recently. Dairy farmers who wish to lease grassland for cultivation of bulbs may take this into account in their cultivation and construction plans in spring. The proposed amendment to the Decision on the use of fertilizers offers flexibility, but we do not see to it that the derogation conditions are changed. Well, you can't, 'cause they're stuck.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u118	I'd like to use both my interruptions now. First of all, on the previous point. I understand that a working group has started working on the low-risk means. I think it is a challenge for all of us to determine how broad we can use it. There are risks associated with these low-risk means if we do not use them correctly. The risks may be greater than with chemicals. Are they really all tested when it comes to environmental and water quality? Do those elements make any sense in that working group?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u119	As far as I know, it is. In the end, it's all about whether they have a low or a high risk, whether it's safe for the environment or what the effects on plants, animals and humans are. This will also be important for low risk resources.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u120	I think it is important to have a better understanding of this as a Member of Parliament. You'd say at first glance that chemicals are a little less good than low-risk drugs. Low-risk assets sound good, so that would be better. It's not always like that. If the Chamber can get information on this, it would be very helpful. Then we can make good decisions on this. My second question concerns the basic substances. Is that also a subject that is addressed in that working group or is that another route? I and my colleague Mr Dijkgraaf have tabled a motion on basic substances such as beer and milk, which can be used very well for plant protection. These substances need to be registered and all of this takes time and money and European agreements would be made on them. What's going on with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u121	As far as I know, that's part of it. I'll report the finesses on that in second term. For the rest, I agree that it is a good thing for the Court to have an insight into the low-risk means. As soon as we have information on this matter, we must share it with the Chamber. It is not for me to break into the Chamber's agenda, but perhaps it is an idea to make a work visit to the Ctgb. That might help to hear from that side about how the organization works and how the procedures run, so that the Chamber gets a better picture on the retina than I try to convey.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u122	Were these your questions, Mrs. Dik-Faber?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u123	Then indeed my second interruption. We have taken a path together to eliminate metam sodium. A good solution is the cultivation of africans. Now, however, we get back from the sector that it is difficult to grow these africans, because then we cannot meet the obligations of 80% grassland. I have indeed seen the answer to my questions, but I have come up with the idea that we have come up with a solution on paper that is not workable in practice. That would be a shame, wouldn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u124	That image wasn't transferred to me. It's strange that you get such a picture, when all I hear is that it's nice that it's taken care of. That's hard work for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u125	I understand. I did get those signals. I can table a motion on this point, but if I get a commitment from the Secretary of State to listen again and return to the Chamber for the summer recess, I am also satisfied. I see a real bottleneck here. It would be a pity if the solution we have created with each other was not workable in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u126	It remains the case that the derogation conditions are established. If I were to suggest that I was going to think again about the 80% grassland, I'd be kidding you, because I can't. Those terms are normal. I would very much like to listen, but I cannot change the derogation conditions, because they are too important to let go. Mrs Dik-Faber agrees with me, I know that, but we thought we had real flexibility in the proposal that is now before us. One can slide in there with a few things. We sincerely hope that that will be enough. If people still have other things to do with the derogation conditions, they are always welcome, but then it is more convenient for us to hear them directly. I can say that here. If Mrs Dik-Faber tabled a motion calling on me to change that 80% grassland... I see her shaking no, so she doesn't. Fortunately, because I would have had to advise against that motion again, and that would be a pity.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u127	I'd like to move on to the low-risk drugs. I have also had the discussion on this subject with your colleague Mr Mansveld, the Secretary of State of I and M in this area. The innovations are still in the Netherlands because entrepreneurs do not know where they stand. I just heard the Secretary of State outline a timetable. Well, then we'll be another year and there's no clarity yet! We have had a whole debate this afternoon on satsumas, but alternatives are simply blocked in this way. The question is whether that timeline can't go any faster. The Netherlands gets ahead of us sometimes. Couldn't that be possible at this point too?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u128	Two things. I think you will be able to discuss this issue with Secretary of State Mansveld this afternoon. It will also pay attention to this in its contribution. As far as speeding up is concerned, I have already said that we are always insisting on it. So it's not gonna be up to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u129	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for her reply, but not until I have given Mrs Lodder the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u130	I did not take into account that Secretary of State Dijksma's speech had already been completed. I would like to ask her to reconsider the enforcement capacity of the NVWA. I have mentioned the example of people who have a boat and use a particular product, and who have been able to rely on additional supervision by the NVWA in recent months. State Secretary Dijksma is responsible for the functioning of the NVWA. We regularly have a debate about the capacity available, about additional resources to give the organisation more capacity, and then we get these kinds of decisions, which are difficult or untenable and take a lot of time. How can the Secretary of State accept that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u131	I think it would be very good if Secretary of State Mansveld would explain again, on behalf of the cabinet, how we want to proceed with the hardening, and, in my view, also on the basis of a majority decision of this Chamber. Of course, as I say with Mrs Lodders, attention is also being paid to our enforcement agencies. That is not an issue that we can neglect, and it will therefore also be part of the way in which we proceed with its further development. I can imagine that we will inform the Chamber of that at a later date, because, of course, it will have consequences for the commitment if new issues arise which the NVWA is looking at. That is what the Chamber will be hearing at a later date.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u132	My interruption wasn't aimed at the trial. I assume Secretary of State Mansveld will say more about that shortly. There is something I really do not understand from the cabinet and certainly from Secretary of State Dijksma as primary final responsibility for the NVWA is not. It is an issue that we regularly discuss. Why doesn't it say with red letters in letters about extra enforcement capacity: pay attention, our NVWA is not equipped for this; this costs extra money? Why doesn't the Cabinet come up with that kind of important profit warnings? Why does the cabinet not come up with the rule: if you want this, will the NVWA not do so extra?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u133	Again, I did not say that this is already the last thing we communicate about this to your Chamber. I think it is important that there is a proposal in principle. That is simply based on a majority of the Chamber that has asked for it. It has consequences, too. Mrs Lodders has quite rightly touched on this point and we share that view with her. We'll show you how we see that in front of us at a later date. Mrs Lodders is certainly right: if you ask for more of a enforcement service, you must also deliver. So we will.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u134	Mr. Chairman. I'm just gonna start with the subject of pomelo. We've discussed it with each other before. The Member of Parliament who is now taking part in the debate for the first time has also debated it in the past. So we have already talked very extensively about pomelos. A general ban on arthropods is currently not possible. However, I would like to reduce, wherever possible, exposure to weed pesticides, as well as the pollution of the environment by weed pesticides. This is particularly true of water, which has been mentioned in debates before. Even if a product has been authorised according to the rules by the College for the Authorisation of Plant Protection Products and Biocidal Products (Ctgb), as is the case with arthropods, I would nevertheless like to take measures to reduce its exposure in the light of the importance of sustainable use. For use on hardening, the spokesmen of the SP Group, the Animal Party, GroenLinks and the Labour Party have all spoken about this. There the use will therefore be prohibited for the 2016 growing season. During the AO Plant Protection Products of 4 December, I already announced this to the Chamber. For unpaved areas outside agriculture, the use ban will enter into force at the end of 2017. However, there are situations that are currently excluded due to a lack of alternatives, such as sports and recreation sites. The amendment of the Decision on plant protection products and biocidal products with which this is regulated will be sent to the Chamber in draft one of these days. The green deals and conversations that I have with the sectors concerned, I am doing alongside the regulations, because I think it is very important that the use is voluntarily reduced. This applies both to private markets and to the management of sports fields and recreational areas. The purpose of the green deal for the private market is to encourage consumers to use non-chemical methods and prevention through outlets. If the consumer chooses chemicals, he is encouraged to do so as little and as carefully as possible. The green deals for sports fields and recreational sites aim to limit the use of the plant protection products to the most necessary exceptions by 2020, for which there are no substantiated alternatives, i.e. non-chemical alternatives. So I think it is important that the use is restricted. The arguments for this are, of course, water quality, the living environment and also the rinse-off risk and sustainability. By "sustainability," I mean not only green sustainability, but also sustainability. Mr Geurts asked if I had any confidence in the Ctgb. The answer to that is yes. There's definitely confidence in the Ctgb. However, we must make a distinction here between the assessment of the Ctgb in terms of market authorisation and the imposition of additional requirements on the use of those resources. In this case, large-scale use of hardening leads to exceedances of standards for the preparation of drinking water from surface water. That is the reason for me to take use measures. Mr Leenders has asked for an accelerated phasing-out of the use of fertilizers in sports fields and recreational areas. I have provided for an exception for these areas, because it is not yet feasible to stop using plant protection products by the end of 2017. That's why I started talking about the green deals. This is also where use is being addressed, with the aim of phasing it down by 2020. I have the expectation that I do not know for sure that I can sign the green deals with parties this summer. If there are signs, agreements are already being made in sport and recreation this year to reduce the use. I notice that parties are motivated. One is no longer unwilling and no longer resists. The question is: how are we going to do this? You can see that municipalities also look differently at their policies. I heard Mrs Lodder mention large amounts of money, but I also know municipalities that do it budget-neutrally. They do it in a very different way, but they do it environmentally friendly. There are therefore also municipalities where this process has not been costly. That is also what Mr Graus spoke about in an interrupting debate. I think it is very important that we look at how things are going within these municipalities. Are these best practices being exchanged? Does one municipality know what the other does? Municipalities are indeed discussing this with each other. Wherever possible I stimulate that, because it is very good to learn from each other in that sense and not all reinvent the wheel. I notice that there are many actions in place to make management more sustainable. Mr Leenders has asked what is going on with regard to the green deals that are now being prepared in the various areas. The green deal sports fields and the green deal recreation have the goal that the use was finished in 2020. The green deal for private use aims to reduce the sale of those plant protection products to private individuals. Here, too, it appears that the parties are very motivated and are looking for ways to do so differently. They also want to do things differently all the time. These green deals are well advanced. The way it looks now, those green deals will be signed this summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u135	It is, of course, fantastic in itself if something can be achieved without us having to announce a rule about it. The other side of it is not going to be the first and not the last time. A green deal for sports fields and recreational areas is in principle arranged with a range of organisations and interest parties. How hard is this green deal, anyway? Can we really build on that? Or is it a paper tiger?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u136	The green deals aren't paper tigers. That's what we see with other green deals. There is involvement and the need to close chains. Many parties are highly motivated in the concrete and plastic industries. It's very nice that they're whole chains, because then you let supplier and customer talk about how they can do it. So far I have had very positive experiences with the green deals. We have also added to the safety deals the external security area. You can see that parties want to take steps on their own and that this is not always accompanied by money. The commitment is really how one can make the step forward together. Here too, I see that parties are involved, are active and enter into the conversation themselves. You really don't have to look them up and drag them from somewhere. The motivation is great. I think that's important for the success of a green deal. They sign and I sign and you keep each other's appointments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u137	The Secretary of State will no doubt abide by the terms of such a deal. That's obvious. There's one contactable person. But there is a range of organizations involved in such a green deal. However, a green deal only makes sense if there is a real overall result. How can the Secretary of State convince me that there's enough hardness in that green deal? What does the Secretary of State do when that green deal turns out not to be so hard?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u138	For me, it is a confirmation of how great this motivation is, that companies themselves voluntarily remove products from the shelves or indicate that they want to provide information. So it is not just a signature, but there is already a movement to take that step forward. We do this with a green deal, where agreements are made over a period, about sharing knowledge and about other points. We haven't signed this green deal yet. I'm confident that a green deal is a good cure. That has so far proved to be the case. We have already signed dozens, and we see progress being made. I am one of Mr Grashoff's doubts on this point, but I think this is a good step. In fact, it is legally complex to impose a ban at the same time. I think it is important for the parties themselves to take the step forward, because that indicates that they themselves need that step. That's why I have faith in the green deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u139	I would like to know where the Secretary of State is going, especially since the Labour Party was clear in her wish: the stuff has to be removed from the shelves. Does the Secretary of State share that wish? My second question concerns the re-evaluation of Roundup in Germany. Is it true that the recent study showing that the product may be carcinogenic is not included? How does the Secretary of State see this necessary re-evaluation of Roundup and satsumas?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u140	There is currently a review under way. I will talk later in my story about the research done by the World Health Organization.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u141	Then the question remains what the Secretary of State wants.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u142	Of course, we want water quality to be good, that there is no more rinse-off risk and that sustainability is guaranteed in the living environment. That bonding is my goal. In the end, you want to leave aside an exception, because there really is no alternative, because we are also, of course, looking for alternatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u143	Mr Graus was standing there a little earlier, Mr Schouw.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u144	Out of respect for his age, I will lead Mr Schouw.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u145	I don't know if he's that happy about that. That is why you have the floor, Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u146	The Secretary of State spoke about the consultation between municipalities. Is it possible that the Association of Dutch Municipalities can play a role in this in order to collect, funnel, pool and then redistribute the information, so that it ends up with all the municipalities at once? After all, the VNG is the contact person for many municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u147	I know that the VNG has several sub-committees which manage certain issues. I have no problem bringing this to the attention of a subcommittee.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u148	I'm a little old, so I'm gonna slow down. When it came to banning neonics, the other Secretary of State actually said to Mr Grashoff that he wanted to hear how it could be banned. The Secretary of State said, "That's my bet." Does this also apply to this Secretary of State when it comes to a means such as Roundup and the re-evaluation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u149	You probably didn't hear me right. The answer to that is yes. Mr Grashoff has asked what possibilities there are for a limited ban on private individuals. He has undoubtedly seen the correspondence on this subject. I am carrying out the motion as I indicated in my letter of 28 March last. I also believe that private consumption should be drastically reduced. Implementation of the motion by imposing a sales ban is not yet legally possible. A ban is a far-reaching measure and I must first try other measures. I must have checked to see if there are any other roads. That's what I'm gonna do. This approach is more effective and does not involve any legal risk. I am in consultation with the garden industry, Nefyto and the Dutch Retail Council on a green deal for private use. I evaluate this and if such a deal proves to be insufficient, a ban is more feasible, because I have tried these other measures first. I understand you want that all faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u150	I question two of them. There are major legal risks. You do something and you get a restraining order from the judge with all the consequences of that. Of course, that is not what we are aiming for. Of course I don't either. I would like an effective policy and not a symbolic policy. Still, there's something crazy in it. As early as 25 March 2014, this State Secretary writes to the Chamber: a ban must be proportionate and necessary to achieve the policy objective. My doubts relate precisely to those individuals, because I do not think that the current approach is clear for individuals. The medicine should not be used on the hardening, but still in the borders and in the private gardens. I do not believe that this can be enforced, nor is it a consistent and consistent signal for the private user. That could be a reason to say: to achieve the policy objective, you actually need something that provides clarity, and that is a ban on the private market, not for the total, but for the private market sec. Does the Secretary of State agree with me? Furthermore, this "proportional" also says something about the negative effects that would occur if you implement this measure. I believe that this proportionality is a very simple matter in the private sphere, because there is no economic or real private interest in continuing to apply it. I therefore felt that, on the basis of that old letter from the Secretary of State to the Chamber, it would be easy to defend proportionality and necessity for that private market precisely because of the policy objective. Will the Secretary of State go into that again?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u151	I do not share that feeling with Mr Grashoff. I think it is important that we first look at what measures we can take and what effects they have, before we resort to the means of a ban and are legally inconsistent. Then we're back to square one, and I don't want to. I want to be forward and consistent, so we don't have to take any steps back.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u152	We have now talked for a whole number of minutes about banning and removing these funds from the market. I have here an article in which EFSA indicates that the consumption of four espressos can be harmful to health. Is the Secretary of State going to launch a ban on this too? If not, why, then, for one and not for the other? Of course, I am not advocating this ban, but I am quoting it as a comparison.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u153	I think the equation is limp. We get all kinds of like-dance claims where an example is always mentioned. As far as I am concerned, that is not the issue. We've been having a discussion about pomace for a long time. We have taken this path to take into account the water quality, the risk of flushing, the sustainability and the living environment and to ensure that the quality of surface water increases. I said here that I think we should look at what works and what doesn't. If it works, it's very nice and I'm happy about it. If it doesn't work, I can consider a ban.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u154	The equation doesn't limp. I indicated in my speech that both the Dutch authority, the European authority, the US authority and Germany, as rapporteur in Europe, as well as the rapporteur in Europe, are assessing, reasserting and involving the monitoring of scientific research in that assessment and re-evaluation. Why is it that it's too much of a big deal? Why is it that it's too much of a big deal? On the contrary, a ban or the possible ban over the market in terms of rinse-off results in a much greater rinse-off. I quoted an article from the Friesch Dagblad and more is being written about it. Consumers simply order this product via the Internet in Germany, Poland and other Member States where the ratio is very different than we are used to in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u155	You're talking about different things now. I am talking about use, and Secretary of State Dijksma has already said a few things about admission. As far as the use is concerned, I am looking for measures that are effective, and then see how I can deal with the use. I'm doing this for the magical reasons I just mentioned. If you see that there are things to order from abroad, from other European countries or from outside the Internet, then I see an analogy with fireworks. In order to prevent this, it is important for harmonisation to take place in Europe. That is something that the Netherlands stands for and goes for. I think that is the solution in terms of importing or ordering over the Internet and delivering these resources. Mrs Ouwehand and Mr Grashoff said that I could ban sales on the basis of the precautionary principle. I have also mentioned this before. The precautionary principle has already been applied in the European system, whereby substances and resources need to be assessed extensively before they enter the market. It therefore requires due care and weight in the burden of proof if you want to remove certain substances or resources from the market. Intervention cannot be based on a suspicion or a scientific study that has not yet been assessed. The precautionary principle may be able to overcome some scientific uncertainty, but there are limits to that. Mr Leender asked for an assessment of the legal possibilities for banning private use of these funds in gardens. The country's attorney has issued an opinion on this before. For hardening and in public green we have a legal basis in the European directive on sustainable use. Measures for use on hardening are necessary for water quality and measures for use in green public are needed to limit third party exposures in public spaces. These foundations do not apply to private gardens, at least not as far as paving is concerned. The lawyer states that the need must be well-founded and that other measures must first be taken. I have just argued that it is my policy to take precisely those other measures. Mr Graus asked about the contacts with the NCO, the Foundation for Non-Chemical Weed Control. There are good and frequent contacts with the NCO, both on developing experiences with non-chemical alternatives and on promoting their experience. On behalf of my ministry, a platform is being developed with data on and experience with non-chemicals. The NCO contributes extensively to this. The NCO is also involved in the amendment of the Decision on plant protection products and biocidal products to regulate the prohibition of hardening. That decision comes to the Chamber. Mrs. Lodders talked about her gut feeling. Decisions shall be taken on the basis of facts. Measures have been taken to systematically exceed standards for the preparation of drinking water, surface water and sustainable weed management as far as possible. Unfortunately, that proved not to be enough and I am therefore taking further action. Research and practice show that alternative methods are feasible and affordable. The study of the International Agency for Research on Cancer, which is linked to the World Health Organization, has been discussed. An article has been published in the Lancet Oncology, which reports that arthropods will be classified as "probably carcinogenic." That conclusion differs from the German conclusion. I think such a message should be taken seriously. After all, the IARC is an advisory body of the same World Health Organization. It is precisely because the conclusion is different from previous conclusions that it is important, as far as I am concerned, that we get the facts first. Scientists will have to do that. We must therefore necessarily wait for the study to be published. Mrs. Lodders already referred to that. That study is not yet public. There is no date yet, but I understand that it will probably not happen until after the summer. I'm gonna take the surveillance cases in this block of cases that Mrs. Lodder asked about. Monitoring and enforcement of the use measures are carried out by water quality managers and NVWA. The use measures shall enter into force from 2016. The NVWA will approach this risk-oriented approach as usual. I am now almost speaking for my colleague from Economic Affairs. We will make further agreements with NVWA from my ministry in the framework of the 2016 annual plan procedure. My colleague promised me that I would return to the low-risk funds. These are questions from Mr Geurts and Mr Leenders. It is true that low risk substances are not yet available when at the end of 2015, early 2016 bans the use of plant protection products on hardening. This is due to the need to clarify criteria at European level and to register substances as low-risk substances. After that, resources at national level can only be authorised as a low risk medium. My colleague's working on that, too. The Jacobi motion of December last year called on the government to consider whether a temporary list of criteria could be drawn up in order to exclude low-risk means in good time, including in order to prevent the temporary prohibition of funds. I also believe that such a swinging movement should be avoided and therefore, on the basis of a recent RIVM advice, look carefully at the possibilities in this area. There is a danger that we will only replace resources with other resources that are still poor for water quality. That listens closely to the use of hardening. Those are big surfaces. In the case of rain, the used substances quickly wash off to locks and sewers. The disadvantage of prejudging European development is that we come up with different criteria, that we interpret it differently than Europe and that we could or could not wrongly designate resources. On the one hand, it penalises resources which do not meet our criteria, but which will soon meet the European criteria. We do not want to temporarily ban the use of resources. This cannot therefore be entirely avoided by national criteria either. On the other hand, according to our criteria, funds can be wrongly designated as a low risk medium. Their use should then be banned later. In the meantime, this may give rise to an undesirable environmental risk. I'm working on that with RIVM right now. I would like to draw your attention to the report in question. I want the Chamber there in writing before the summer recess. It's complex. I hear the wishes of the Chamber, but it is the question of what is possible and what risks we run with which choice. Mr Geurts asked about the state of play on the legal basis of a report on the use of potential low risk resources. I gave information on this in my letter of 19 March. The aim is to provide the legal basis in the explanatory memorandum to the draft decision. He will receive the Chamber one of these days. Mr Schouw asked a question about the exceedances that have been demonstrated by environmental organisations, including Greenpeace. Doesn't the purification obligation help?. The purification obligation has been in force since May 2014 through the authorisation of means based on imidacloprid. In practice, I am getting signals that this obligation is not being properly respected. That could explain those exceedances. I do not think that is acceptable and will ask the regulators to strictly monitor this, because without purification there can be no use of imidacloprid. I will also appeal to the sector for its responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u156	I am very pleased that the Secretary of State does so, but there was still a small factual question underneath. How many treatment plants have been in place since the May 2014 tightening up? My point is that there is no treatment plant. At least I didn't hear about it. If that is the case, there is a serious situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u157	I shall come back to that in second place. I'll see if I can name the exact number. A number of questions have been asked, among others by Mr Smaling. He suggested that the standards used in the Water Framework Directive should be included in the authorisation of plant protection products. Why does Ctgb's admission policy not rely on these water quality standards? In May 2013, Secretary of State Dijksma and I wrote that it is not legally possible to replace admission standards with water quality standards in the admission policy. The admission policy is the result of the European admission regulation. It is not legally possible to include the standards in the Water Framework Directive in the authorisation assessment. Where standards are exceeded in surface water, emission and reduction plans are aimed at improving them. This may, in turn, have an impact on the authorisation of a product.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u158	I'm just trying to follow this. This seems like some kind of circular reasoning, but perhaps it isn't. To be honest, I can't quite follow. Isn't one supposed to relate to the other? Otherwise, you won't be able to meet one or the other in the first place.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u159	Where standards are exceeded in surface water, this may have an impact on the authorisation of a means. The admission policy is the result of the European admission regulation. It is not the case that it is not legally possible to use the framework directive there. That's another line of reasoning. This is the case at the moment when standards are exceeded in surface water. Then it may result in the authorisation of a means. But you cannot let go of those standards at a higher level, simply because it is a European admission regulation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u160	We have recently seen a map from the Court of Auditors on the state of progress of the route towards compliance with the Water Framework Directive. There are still a lot of surface waters heavily polluted. This is not about the rivers that flow into the Netherlands from neighbouring countries, but about the more secondary surface waters such as the Barneveld Beek which Mr Geurts is looking forward to. If you want it clean for the year in which you no longer get those derogations, then you will have to intervene, not only in the use of nitrates and fertilizers but also in the use of these pesticides. That's what you have to do to get that directive, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u161	Yes, but the European admission regulation applies a certain standard. The Water Framework Directive does not correspond to that standard. Let me put it this way. I'll see if I can explain it a little better in the second term. Mr Smaling now also makes a distinction between rivers and other waters. Which leads me to doubt. I don't know if it's about all the waters.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u162	Keep the Barneveld Beek in mind!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u163	I'm keeping Mr. Geurts in mind. Ever since I've been in Barneveld, he's been in my head inextricably tied to Barneveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u164	I'm gonna take a look at the Secretary of State. Do you need much more time? There will soon be an additional regulation of work.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u165	Mr. Chairman. I'm like laundry in your hands. There are two more questions. Mrs Lodders has asked a question about the growing paint. There is no broad ban on the use of anti-fouling agents. The inspection shall check that the funds used are authorised in the Netherlands. That's a legal obligation. Some products have been withdrawn from the market on the basis of international agreements. This has been done because of the serious environmental risks of these resources. A question has been asked about vinegar. I do not remember which group asked that question. I see Mr Geurts raising his hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u166	Those are vinegar pissers!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u167	Vinegar business, yeah. Vinegar is not allowed as a weedkiller. Therefore, it is not allowed to use vinegar as such. In this sense, the risks are not known either. After all, it has not been assessed. This may mean that large-scale use has undesirable effects on soil and water.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u168	This is exactly where we've got the problem. There is no clarity about the low-risk means. I think that's going to be the Achilles heel of the ban we've been talking about all afternoon. There are no alternatives. It's just happening in practice right now. Then the question is whether the cabinet has enough enforcement opportunities. These are really pallets, thousands of litres in the Netherlands, because people think they are doing well with acetic acid or vinegar. They're just working on it. The Secretary of State just said all these people are trespassing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u169	Vinegar is indeed not allowed as a weedkiller.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u170	That may be purely legal, but you can see that people think they're doing well when they quit. They think they've found a biological agent for the replacement of... uh... uh... uh... uh... uh... uh... uh... uh... uh... uh... uh... uh.. uh... uh... uh.. uh... uh... uh.. uh... uh.. uh... uh.. uh.. uh... uh... uh... uh... uh... Especially in the outskirts and in the streets in the residential areas this is just happening plenty. I saw it with my own eyes. It's just really pallets going through. And enforcement, zero!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u171	I didn't see that with my own eyes. I believe Mr Geurts on his blue eyes has seen that. These are the facts. I could go into it in the letter on low-risk assets.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u172	I thank the Secretary of State for her first-term response. I see Mrs Lodder has another question. Mrs. Lodders, please! I'm in a hurry.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u173	Mr. Chairman. I deliberately saved my question for the end. The Secretary of State started in her speech on green sustainability and sustainability. I have not heard words like 'economics', 'jobs' and 'employment' once. I would very much like to know how the cabinet is making this policy of bullying entrepreneurs. Why is everything focused on the ban, on reducing it? Mr Geurts has just called for it again. Low-risk resource policy seems to be on the agenda continuously. What is the legitimacy of this policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u174	Research has been done. If you look in width at the road we go on with sustainability, with circular economy, with thinking and the choice in these kinds of directions, then it does not cost jobs but creates jobs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u175	Indeed, it will lead to jobs if, as GroenLinks suggests, we all get down on our knees and scrape away the green, the weeds, between the tiles. I do not think that is a serious proposal from this cabinet. At least I should hope so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u176	I hope I do not hear now that the VVD Group is rejecting a circular economy and thinking about a sustainable, forward-looking society. The investigations are really very clear about that. It brings in money, it creates jobs, it brings in economic growth.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-8.u177	Then I would once again like to thank the Secretary of State for her first reply. I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments. Then there will be an arrangement of work. Then we shall resume this debate.
