ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-5.u1	Mr. Chairman. On 17 October, the government received an official request from Brussels to pay a post levy of 642 million. After eight months of parliamentary questions, debates, motions and WOB requests, De Telegraaf's objection was successful and the editors received a few e-mails from Minister Dijsselbloem and his officials. They show that the government was surprised and panicked, but didn't take any action except to draw up a line of words. What is worse is that it confirms that the government did receive an official request on 17 October. That went to Minister Dijsselbloem, which went to Prime Minister Rutte, which went to four other ministries. Conclusion: The government couldn't have been mugged. But those so-called robberies and surprise government didn't object. No, the CBS did not check and no one asked a question at the Eurostat meeting. The government soon took the debit card, as the only Member State. No other country has paid so far. What does this say about the government's negotiating technique? Think of Greece. The Netherlands paid 1.1 billion and would get 450 million back. But that amount didn't come back in 2014. Nor will it be back in 2015. Maybe it'll come in 2016. In 2014 there is/not, well/not, but/not a new post-tax. In 2015, there is a new EUR 1.8 billion setback in the EU. I will return to the controlling task of the House of Representatives. The government does provide documents to De Telegraaf, but not to the Lower House, while I have asked for them at least seven times and the Constitution states that a Member of Parliament must receive information, unless the interest of the State opposes it. But the state interest does not oppose this, at most the interest of the government or the minister. That's why I have a few questions. Why didn't the Chamber receive the documents? The Minister knows that the government has an active and passive constitutional duty of information, doesn't he? Does he wish to make the correspondence with the European Commission public by means of a communication? Is it true that the Union made an official request on 17 October and can the Court receive that document? Is the government keeping more things hidden in the post-tax file? Does the government intend to come forward with a proposal within a week to enable the Chamber to control everything that is being exchanged between the European Union and the Dutch Government?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to Mr Omtzigt for his questions. Before I answer the questions, however, I must contradict some of the inaccuracies in his speech. He began by saying that the Netherlands had an official request for payment to the European Commission on 17 October. That is factually incorrect. On 17 October, a representative of the Netherlands from the Permanent Representation of the Netherlands in Brussels was present on a certain committee. In that committee a preliminary communication was made that a post-tax would follow from the revision of sources in the different countries. That was not a final communication at the time, because the Statistical Committee had yet to finalise the figures. That happened on October 24th. That was also the day the Financial Times brought out the figures. The official request therefore did not reach us on 17 October. However, on that day we received the warning that the request was coming. I was informed about this at the end of that day and the Ministry of AZ was informed about it via official lines. This is all information that has previously been exchanged with your Room, several times even. Then I come to the point that the Netherlands would not have done anything, but would only have developed a line of words in a panic. The opposite is true. We have always expressed our surprise at the results of this process and we have insisted very strongly on the availability of figures. The figures from the Netherlands came from our own CBS, but the figures from all other countries were not revealed in those first weeks. This has been the subject of a huge debate and has been strongly encouraged. At some point, the figures for all these countries have been made available. It was only then that we could see where these figures came from, what the differences between countries were and how, on the basis of the fixed key, this led to the post-taxation. As long as I didn't have those numbers, I was definitely surprised. Mr Omtzigt does not believe that this is credible. However, as long as I could not see where the great differences between countries came from and what figures were behind them, I maintain that I had the right to be surprised at an outcome of this magnitude. Mr Omtzigt also says that only the Netherlands drew the payment card in 2014. That's what I read in the paper. That's not right. My information is that 13 countries have already paid, almost all except seven. Twenty-one countries had to pay gross. Thirteen countries have already paid in 2014. Seven more countries are paying this year. Italy paid part of the money last year, by the way. That country can be added to both categories. So not only the Netherlands has paid. The Netherlands did not pay first either. The Netherlands paid purely because it suited us from the point of view of cash management, the expenditure framework and balance management. We have decided, for our own sake, to pay before the end of the year. We paid on December 30th. I can assure Mr Omtzigt that several countries had already paid before 30 December. So not only were we not the only country, as Mr Omtzigt says, we were not the first. Mr Omtzigt also says that the 460 million we would get back from that gross payment will not come back in 2015. I do not understand where Mr Omtzigt is getting that from. That amount will come in as soon as all the countries have paid in mid-year. They must pay: that is what the European Commission has prescribed. Payment arrangements have been made until mid-year, and after that all countries must have paid. Then the recovery will take place and we will be reimbursed. I do not know what information Mr Omtzigt bases himself on when he says that the 460 million will not come back. Next, Mr Omtzigt reports a new setback of 1.8 billion in 2014. That is an amount that comes from.I must put it right now.the new... They would be paid out this year, but it is shifting because the ratification process is still ongoing in other countries. That's why it's moving to next year. So that amount goes beyond the annual limit. However, we have not lost that amount all of a sudden, as Mr Omtzigt suggests. Now I come to Mr Omtzigt's questions. He first asked whether he could receive all correspondence with the European Commission. The position of the Dutch cabinet is that they belong to the diplomatic movement. It would damage the Dutch interest and the Dutch position in the many negotiations in Brussels if we could now be obliged to reveal the changes in diplomatic movements, including those with the European Commission. If we really had to do that, the Netherlands would no longer have a position in the negotiations on all these dossiers in Brussels. It would be very damaging to national interest. Mr Omtzigt also asked whether he could receive the official request from the Netherlands from the European Commission on 17 October. There is no such official request from October 17th. He also asked if he could get a letter within a week. I don't know what to write in that letter. I don't have any new information. All the information I have just given is not new either. This has been exchanged with the Chamber in previous debates on the post-taxation and in written documents with the Chamber. I am always willing to rewrite it, but I have no new information to offer Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-5.u3	An official request was made on October 17th. This was in one of the e-mails released under the WOB. It's part No. 25 of the WOB request. That went to six ministries. Whether it was a provisional communication or an official provisional request, that is an interesting pun, but I would just like to see that request. We have now asked that five or six times. It can simply be made public; it is a request for payment of 1.1 billion. The surprise does not concern the surprise on 17 October. I get that. It was the surprise for the cameras on October 24th, of: apparently someone said a table on the internet; we are not aware of that. That table was probably just in that request of 17 October. That's exactly why we just want to see the letter now. We have asked the question: which countries have paid? We didn't get an answer. We asked: give which countries have paid. Was there a list of 13 countries on that list? No, of course there was no list of 13 countries on it. So come up with that list. Then we will know exactly what is going on and you will be able to answer these questions more precisely. And yes, I did not say that it will never come back, but I find it very strange that it didn't come back last year and another 1.8 billion has to be paid in advance this year. We hope to get that money back the year after. Then a number of questions have not been answered. The documents sent to De Telegraaf can also be made available to the Chamber. If WOB requests are needed, when documents are not given in the Chamber, why do we still have parliamentary democracy? That's what I'm saying to you, Mr. Chairman. That information should simply be provided. The exchange of letters between the European Commission and the Dutch Government can be made available to the Chamber in various ways. The fact that it is not given gives great thought to such a large post-tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-5.u4	Once again, on 17 October, an official committee was convened in Brussels, in which someone from the Dutch PV was present. There was an oral communication on this outcome of the whole process of resource revision in all countries. Those amounts have indeed been mentioned. The table may even have been mentioned. But there really is no official request at that time, let is addressed to us by letter of that day: you must pay this now. A call of funds can always be made by the Commission once that process is final and the figures have been established. Then the Commission will do a so-called call of funds. Member States will then have to pay. It has often been said in this debate, also by Mr Omtzigt: the Netherlands should have negotiated or refused; the Netherlands has not negotiated. No, that's correct. If statistical figures, which are established by the statistical offices in Europe, lead to a different distribution of payments to the European Union, there should be no political pressure or handshake about this. I have said this before in the Chamber: I am not going to negotiate statistics. You can negotiate keys once every few years, at the MFK et cetera, but not on the outcome of statistical processes. Then Mr Omtzigt says again that we should pay 1.8 billion this year. That's not true. Once again, it is about the ratification of the own resources decision. That is a return to the Netherlands, and it will come a year later. I regret that. All Member States, or sufficient Member States, must have ratified this before that payment can be made by the European Commission. There's nothing you can do about it. The e-mails that De Telegraaf asked never asked Mr Omtzigt to my best knowledge, but of course the Chamber may have them as well. I'll make them available to you. It's an interesting e-mail exchange between me and my associates, which will confirm everything I've told the Chamber today. Finally, the cabinet has simply developed a position on diplomatic movements. If the House does not agree, we will once again have to discuss this in a broader context and at the heart of the matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-5.u5	It's about more than the e-mails, it's about full communication. That is what the Minister said: there is no greater importance for this openness. I'd say there is. That is democracy, that is the people in the country who are worried about this. We've been getting a few e-mails in the last few days. They are concerned that there is no insight into this. It's about 650 million, just as much as the cuts in home care. So it's a lot of money. Citizens have a right to know how that happened, don't they? The article by De Telegraaf reveals the image that the cabinet has been sitting in a headlight looking like a rabbit and initially did nothing. If that is not the case, show it by making all the documentation available to the public.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-5.u6	Mr Omtzigt knows better, because he knows all the letters and all the documentation I have sent to the Chamber, including the underlying reports with all the statistical figures, thank God we have had from the various countries at aggregated level. This has been difficult because there was no intention in Brussels to provide these statistics for all these countries. Based on those numbers, you can see how you get to that new distribution. It's taken a lot of effort to get those numbers up and running, but they've appeared. I've informed the Chamber about that. If Mr Merkies chooses to put that information aside and then ask for all the e-mails, I can only say that he has had all the information. He can even pick up the calculator and calculate why on the basis of this resource revision, which has a retroactive effect of four years, the result of a post-tax for the Netherlands, and also for other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-5.u7	Next is the second question from the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-5.u8	Apparently, there's been an e-mail exchange that De Telegraaf has now turned up that we haven't been able to see so far, but it has now. That's really weird. If there's public pressure, apparently there's more possible. Then I ask: why not make the whole thing public?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-5.u9	I have difficulty suggesting that the Chamber can only believe me when it has the e-mail exchange between me and my staff on this issue. That's gonna be a very interesting way of doing things. The Chamber can always call me to account. I'm always willing to give you all the information. If I inform the Chamber wrongly, incompletely or wrongly, it must point out to me that I am to blame for the consequences that it can make to send me away. I'm not being called upon to send all the underlying e-mails on every file on which I inform the Chamber very extensively, am I? The Telegraaf has therefore requested on the basis of the WOB. That is the right thing to do, and we have given that information to an important extent. It is more than just a few e-mails, as Mr Omtzigt said. It's turned out to be a hell of a package.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-5.u10	You want to remove all doubt, don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-5.u11	No, no, no, no, Mr. Merkies. The Minister for Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-5.u12	I have repeatedly exchanged all the questions through letters and also orally with the Chamber, including the underlying figures. What is happening now is that some groups do not want to accept that these figures include a post-tax for the Netherlands. That is an extremely annoying post-tax, but anyone who sees and sees these figures must accept that the Netherlands has been kept within the European agreements to pay. If that is not what we want, then perhaps we need to make that political point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-5.u13	From the e-mails that De Telegraaf has published, we have at least got a little more clarity about what has been exchanged. The big question remains, however, when has the Prime Minister been informed of this. The Minister himself states that he was informally informed on 17 October. Did he immediately pass that information on to the Prime Minister or did he not do so until later?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-5.u14	This has been changed several times, but I would like to say it again. The PV makes a diplomatic report and it goes to the Foreign Office. The State Department will forward it to us and AZ. I believe that this has happened on the same day. I do not know if the Prime Minister was then immediately informed. I think he said that he doesn't know. In any case, a week later, the Financial Times made it full of publicity. Then I called the Prime Minister immediately to make sure he knew.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-5.u15	Mr Omtzigt, about your own question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-5.u16	Yes, Mr. Chairman. 'Cause this one's cute. We have discussed this seven times and the Minister of Finance still does not know whether the Prime Minister knew on 17 October. It's interesting. There's a word game about everything here. Is the Minister for General Affairs who is conducting the negotiations in Europe immediately informed on 17 October or not? If the Minister cannot tell us now, he can inform the Chamber in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-5.u17	This has really changed over and over again. The Ministry of AZ has been informed and thus the politically responsible has been informed. It happened as I described.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-5.u18	Thank you for your answers and for coming to the Chamber. Mr Omtzigt wishes to make a point of order in my direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-5.u19	Yes, I asked for a written response, because until now there has been no discussion of whether the Prime Minister knew.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-5.u20	You wanted an answer or a written response. I have heard the Minister of Finance go for the other choice, which is to reply immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-5.u21	Mr President, I have not heard an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-5.u22	Mr Omtzigt, we move on to the next question.
