ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-8.u1	I give the floor to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-8.u2	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Members for their input, in particular for the words of sympathy for the relatives of the two Dutch soldiers who gave their lives during their important work on the United Nations mission in Mali. Your words have also been taken from our hearts. In the break we just had, I had the opportunity to speak to four human rights defenders: one from Russia, one from Congo, one from Egypt and one from Syria. That was impressive. I spoke with a woman from Russia who dealt with the fate of killed Russian soldiers in Ukraine. I also spoke with a physician from Congo who is well-known and deals with the problem of sexual mutilation as a weapon of war. In addition, I spoke with a lady who was looking in Egypt for a way between the Muslim Brotherhood on the one hand and the military regime on the other, who is now trying to build stability at a high price. Last but not least, I spoke with a human rights defender from Syria who is very active in helping the situation in Aleppo and who is at the same time someone whose wife has been kidnapped. I say this as a start because a debate on foreign policy must always be a combination of realism and idealism. In the end we stand for the standards and values that this country knows and we also want to defend. So we must also stand up for human rights defenders. Standards and values are currently at stake in the world, and also in our own country; extremism, jihadism, increasing autocracy, sometimes a lot of screaming and little wool, increasing anti-Semitism, increasing persecution of Christians and also increasing feelings against Islam. In such a world, where standards and values are at stake, where human rights have reached a historic low, I regret to say that two weeks ago in the Human Rights Council, of which the Netherlands is now a member, it is important to analyse carefully what is going on. That is why I very much appreciate that tonight we have the opportunity to debate security with you, because idealism and realism belong together. This is a time when evil must not be underestimated, in which we must get to the wind and in which a certain realism is also important in the light of developments over the past period. You have all mentioned its elements: hybrid warfare, new power relations in the world, sectarianism. Predictability has diminished. I will say something about this in a moment, because I was asked about it. We live in a world in which not only the trends are important, but also the events, as former Prime Minister Macmillan said. We're co-led by events. In a world that changes very quickly along a number of important benchmarks, events are often unpredictable. They aren't entirely. You can prepare for them... but events often determine the policy. And that's not good, because you have to respond to events, but you will have to think about how to deal with them in a good way. Military resources are essential, but they are certainly not the only means; they are always used as part of a political strategy. There are different means. Sanctions were mentioned; you debated them today whether they are effective or not. Some people ask for sanctions against Russia, others for sanctions against Israel. Sometimes it is said politically that something is effective, sometimes that something is not effective. They are a means that can be looked at, but always as part of a political strategy of outcome. Looking at the world today, I think there are a number of characteristics that we need to keep in mind when we specifically address all the questions you have asked. Firstly, we know the world today as multipolar, with new centres of power, with the balance between the different countries not yet crystallized. So there's a struggle between the power centers. Nor is there any clear leadership. We may or may not have liked that, but at least it is not here anymore. It makes the world more uncertain. It also concerns the institutions on which we normally build our policies: the European Union, NATO, the United Nations. Those are all organisations that are in great change, because of the change in power relations. Secondly, there is another role for the state. We see in a number of countries that it has become more autocratic, that there is less room for civil society and that more is being grasped about nationalism and a policy of spheres of influence. On the other hand, there is the problem of failing states. That is almost the other extreme; states that no longer function, where the government no longer has the authority over the means of violence. The third point is that the benchmarks we normally have to deal with are still important now. We need to look closely at that. Are they effective or not? I have been asked a number of questions about the UN and the OSCE; I will return to them in a moment. What conclusions does that lead to? For the time being, to nothing, but perhaps to an approach. First of all, it must be aimed at being flexible, because events are partially unpredicted. Foreign policy must therefore be flexible. This does not mean that it should be opportunistic, nor without a strategy. Secondly, we need to prepare ourselves strategically for a number of points. You mentioned a number of them: migratory flows, a policy of spheres of influence, hybrid warfare. Not only should we think about this in a rather fundamental way, but we should actually submit plans to our parliaments. Thirdly, it may be about the return of diplomacy. In a world where there is a lot of screaming, where there is a lot of explanation, where many countries are opposed to each other and they make sharp statements 'a country is good or a country is wrong', there is also a choice to be made for traditional diplomacy. This is not about diplomacy in the backrooms but about modern diplomacy, in which countries try to find each other again in order to create new structures of cooperation in a world that is chaotic. That is a very general and abstract picture of the world in which we are now standing. There is, of course, much more to be said about it. In updating its security strategy, the government identified three important elements. Firstly, this is the enormous risk to Europe of insecurity around its borders. That is why I would like to start by answering a number of questions that mainly concern Europe's southern flank: Libya, ISIS, the Middle East peace process. If you look at the skins of Europe, it is the east side. This concerns the understandable questions about Ukraine, about Moldova, about Russia's destabilization policy. What organisations and what structures and means of power do we actually have to reduce these problems? Thirdly, you have asked a number of questions, and I would like to answer them in the conclusion on the integrated approach to internal and external security. Should that really be one policy? It also applies to a number of regions which are certainly no less important to the Dutch Government. Mr Van Kappen, for example, asked about the problem in the South China Sea. Those are not things that we are now going to declare secondary, but in that note we have focused on the differences around Europe. That's the first element. The second element is standards and values. They have a relationship with internal and external security. The third element concerns a number of issues relating to future resilience; energy dependence and so on. Let me start with the first element, namely the south flank. I start with that because a number of questioners started with that, not for a specific, logical reason; I could have started on the east side as well. We are dealing with huge transformation processes in the Middle East. There are no quick fixes for that. That is not going to solve either the Dutch Government or the governments on the ground in a short time. That's a transformation process that's complicated. We, as a Europe, have great security interests in this. We must try to find the right entry points. I shall begin with the questions that I believe Mr Kox has asked about the situation in Libya. It is directly linked to a number of questions that have been asked about European security policy and its joint action. It's best to update that by not only talking about it in abstraction, but also to see, if there's something going on, whether we can do the right thing or not. When we talk about Libya, we have to realise that the intervention that took place in 2011 was important. I think he saved a lot of lives. The fact that, in my opinion, there was not enough follow-up to this was also due to the fact that the Libyans no longer wanted an international presence. The international community has chosen to place the ownership of reconstruction with the Libyans themselves. This has led, among other things, to countless militias getting a piece of government apparatus under control. It is not so much an issue that the international community has left Libya. You can see the limitations of military intervention if it is not properly integrated into a political strategy. Libya is a country which is now in very dramatic conditions. I do not have to talk about this very long tonight, given the many questions that have been raised. There is a situation in which two parliaments are still competing, both military and political. In addition, the influence of ISIS is increasing, as is that of other groups. The South of Libya in particular is characterised by a rather anarchist situation. Unbelievably many weapons play the game of power there. That is a major risk, including for Europe. Libya is in a difficult situation. The country is highly polarized. The instability has led to an increase in smuggling, illegal migration and extremism. I myself saw in Mali the consequences of the anarchy in Libya for the destabilisation of the region of the Sahel. It is now important to see whether the two parliamentary political representations in Libya can reach a political agreement. Those odds haven't been increased in the last few days. For a moment, it seemed like it was heading in the right direction. It is done under the direction of a UN Special Representative. The aim was to ensure that, if a political agreement were to be reached, the possibility would also be opened up, for example for the EU, in this case the High Representative of the European Union, to prepare options for supporting such a government, including in the fight against ISIS and the stabilisation of its own state. This is something for which I believe the EU should formulate a strategy within its limitations and also its potential. There is a direct European interest at stake. We also need to look at how long Europe's wristhold is in this respect. The Minister of Defence can say much more about this when it comes to military resources than I do, but in preparing it not too late, because we are already on the late side, but you could work on it until there is political agreement. All kinds of options can be developed for this purpose. You can think of it theoretically. I refer to the security of such a government or a maritime strategy that has to do with combating arms smuggling. I am thinking of several other possibilities for building Libya's government. At the moment, all of this seems far away in view of the anarchist situation, but the importance of Libya and the risks to North Africa, we see that in Tunisia and the Sahel, but Italy is very close to................................................................................................................................................................................ This includes the problems of migration, asylum and foreign policy. In this respect, it is very important that, on the basis of an initiative by the Dutch Government, the Foreign Ministers, Migration and Development Cooperation meet shortly to formulate such an integrated strategy. There are a number of aspects to this. The first aspect concerns European policy for asylum seekers and foreigners coming here, either as economic migrants or as asylum seekers. The question is what is Europe's integrated policy in this context and whether there is a basis for reaching agreements within Europe. There are all kinds of discussions about this. The north says the south isn't doing enough, but the south says the north isn't doing enough. It's a lot of trouble. Secondly, it is important to clarify what is called the push and pull factors in beautiful Dutch. 'Cause there's both of them. This means that there must also be a policy on, for example, reception in the region, its funding, not just reception in the region, and the foreign policy options that I have just mentioned. This proposal comes not only from the Netherlands but also from a number of other countries. In this context, the European Commission is to present a proposal at the beginning of May. As a result, a number of questions have been asked about this element of the discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-8.u3	It is an area of great concern, not only for parties that sometimes leave balloons over it, but it has been worn very widely. One of our major concerns is the question of what happens to the flow of refugees across the Mediterranean. Is the policy aimed at deterring and stopping them, or is it also aimed at the humanitarian need not to leave refugees to their fate when they arrive? Is that part of the discussion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-8.u4	That is part of the discussions, and it should be. It is one of the most difficult dilemmas, because there is always a humanitarian element. People die. That's a tragedy. In all the discussions of the last few days, everyone acknowledges that. The question is, what are you gonna do about it? At that time we had a discussion about Frontex. A further question has been asked by Mr Franken. I will answer it now and then come back to the other matter. The question concerned the contribution to Frontex. In the letter of 24 March, the State Secretary of V and J explained the Dutch contribution to the Triton operation. The starting point of our contribution is: if Frontex so requests, the Netherlands is in principle prepared to consider making a greater contribution to the implementation of tasks covered by Frontex's mandate. The mandate of this agency focuses primarily on supporting Member States' border management. Triton's operational capacity should therefore fit within this objective and be based on the needs of the Agency. Soon there will be a discussion with the new Secretary of State of V and J. In that context, Mr Ganzevoort asked me also to come to the question of boats, which is the government's policy as regards the reception of refugees in the region and how much that region can handle. In this respect, there is a huge responsibility, especially for the countries in the region itself. There are currently 1.2 million refugees in Lebanon out of a population of 4 million and over 600,000 refugees in Jordan out of a population of 6.6 million. The pressure on public services, such as health care, and thus on the population, including host communities, is increasing enormously. The cabinet considers it essential that aid not only targets refugees but also host communities. I've been to Turkey recently. There are a number of good Dutch projects that encourage the reduction of the increasing pressure on facilities and the resulting tensions. However, the pressure on Lebanon should not increase much. Therefore, the Lebanese government is careful to allow new groups of refugees. A new problem, however, is that large groups of displaced persons are currently arriving on the Syrian side of the border. With regard to the problems of migration, boats, the European distribution and Frontex, the following is the case: There's actually no ideal solution if you don't deal with the criminal circuits in an integrated way. Whatever means you choose, you will then be at risk of getting a pulling movement that you do not want, but you cannot focus your policy on that element alone. That is an element that is in it, but it will have to be integrated. Hence the Netherlands' proposals to reach agreement within Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-8.u5	The Minister jumps from the refugees to another subject, but I have asked what the Minister thinks of Greece's likely threat to open the border with Turkey. Is that just a threat? What's behind it? What's going on?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-8.u6	Of course, I find that unacceptable. Such a threat to break rules that have been agreed unilaterally and also to say that extremists or terrorists may be allowed to go through as a kind of strategy of influencing European policy is totally unacceptable to the Dutch Government. I would like to say straight away that this has not translated into any proposal from the Greek Government, for example in the European Council. Nor has it been followed by any proposal. We reject this very strongly, of course. While I am still working on the south flank, I would like to say something about the discussion on ISIS, Syria and Iraq. Let me say first of all that the Netherlands has an integrated approach to this. A number of questions have been asked. The solution will have to be found in the countries of the Middle East itself, albeit with a catalysing role of the international community and, where possible, of the United Nations. I'll come back to that. This is a role that cannot succeed without a political strategy. The military instrument is now essential. We see this, for example, in the bombing of ISIS and in the training we provide of peshmergas and special forces in the Iraqi army. However, this can never be separated from an inclusive strategy, both in Syria and Iraq. Let me first put the emphasis on Iraq and then go to Syria. When it comes to Iraq, at least there is the beginning of a political strategy. The Al-Maliki government is gone, and it's a good thing. That was an exclusive government, giving those who were expelled from the army by Paul Bremer in Iraq and then became part of the hard structure of ISIS a chance to return. In any case, Sunni tribal leaders should be given a chance to return to an inclusive government. So it is important that there is a new government. Secondly, it is important that it is given very critical support. There is a risk that, especially from the Shiite militias, there will be a policy that, if you take the territory of, for example, ISIS, this would lead to human rights violations or an exclusive new approach, leading to a functional equivalent of ISIS in the long term. What is happening there and what is the Dutch Government's policy? I mention government support, but not without conditions. We have also approached the European Union. It's not just us, it's the whole community. The European Union has come up with a very common strategy. You can say 'it's money', but I believe it is the first time in years that the European Union has deployed 1 billion to improve the situation of the administration in Iraq. That has to do with the police. It has to do with the fact that if an area is occupied, there will be work and community services. There is training in a way that is inclusive. There are projects to bring Sunni tribal leaders back into the government. There is a political story behind doing something in Iraq, together with the Kurdish state governments, which has a chance of success. Chances of success; no more, but no less. I think that we should focus on Iraq: a combination of a military strategy and a political strategy and a common European action. We are doing this together with the countries of the alliance. That is important, because it is much wider. It cannot be just a Western solution or a European solution. I thought we'd learned over the past few years that this isn't working. We cannot force peace and we cannot force democracy by military means. We can help and catalyze what is happening in the country itself. But we are aware that the situation as it is today is very unstable. This applies not only to Iraq and Syria, but also to all those neighbouring countries I have just spoken about. It is essential to contain the problem by means of substantial resources, which are now showing certain results. Syria is a lot harder. I believe that everyone can see that the political strategy is much more complicated there. There's a government there that's got a lot of blood on her hands. There's ISIS. There is limited scope for what is called the moderate opposition, if you like. So this means that the bloodshed is actually continuing. Here too, all initiatives must be taken to create opportunities for negotiation. That is why the Dutch government also supports De Mistura's initiative. That is why we have a special envoy: Nikolaos van Dam, well known in the world of Syrian experts. He also has very good contacts. That is why we are investing in regional strategy. This includes Iran, Saudi Arabia and Turkey. There is also an opportunity to speak with the Russians. It was said: fist and open hand, where is the open hand? Well, in discussions with Russia in areas not directly related to Ukraine. There too, only a political strategy, together with the military means, could work. I am not optimistic about Syria, by the way. The flow of refugees has an enormous destabilising effect, regardless of the moral problem. There is also the risk that the problem will spread even further if it is not resolved. I think all this is so essential that within Europe, with the United Nations, but also with the countries in the region, we must come to an agreement in order to reduce bloodshed. Let me say straight away that this is incredibly complicated. A number of spokesmen pointed this out. We are in a coalition of countries that you might not have chosen directly, either because of the human rights situation there, or because they may have been part of the funding sources of the same problem in the past. However, it is important to jointly shape that alliance. A number of instruments are available for this. Mr Schrijver asked me about cutting off financial flows from the Arab wave states to IS. I think this is indeed an essential point. It concerns Resolution 2195, which focuses on links between organised crime and terrorism.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-8.u7	I have a question for the Foreign Minister about Russia's position in the Middle East policy. What I understood about it, but I would like to verify that with the Minister, is that the Russians are following a philosophy where they say: we also hate what is happening and are not waiting for a caliphate in our soft abdomen. However, we believe that the only countries with the military capability to control ISIS are Iran and Syria. Those are exactly the two countries that we are not very warm for. Their reasoning is: you are trying to find all kinds of moderate groups. They're barely there; you're never gonna make it. We are real politicians and focus on Iran and Syria. That's a bit of a dilemma, isn't it? I now notice that the Americans are also making overtures to talk to Assad. What is the Dutch position in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-8.u8	That is a very good question you are asking. I wouldn't have expected that from you either. It's a dilemma, that's true. Let us get there first. It is a proxy war in that region, involving direct interests, including those of the Russian Federation. It's double in there, by the way. The view of the Dutch Government is that a peace solution can only exist if you speak to all groups in Syria. That's another thing than talking directly to President Assad. There is talk of what is so beautifully called the transition, but no one knows where that transition is going. However, I am convinced that within Syria, or at least within the region of Syria, the direction of peace can only be stored if the alevites and Christians feel safe as well as the Sunnis. That's where the dilemma lies. If I were to say 'we're going to talk to Assad tomorrow', I can assure you that the number of people recruited directly by ISIS is increasing tenfold. This demonstrates the enormous complexity of the problem. There is a feeling, following the interventions that took place in the first decades of this millennium, that Sunnis are marginalized. I very much agree with people who say: you should not change that again in a sectarian reversal to another group. The complicated thing in this situation is that you will have to try to involve everyone in making peace. This also means that alevites and others will have to be involved. There are still a large number of dilemmas as to the form and extent to which the regime itself is involved. The Netherlands is not just about that. However, I do not look at it with dark glasses, in the sense of: one way or another that is not allowed. Let me make a political point right away. I cannot imagine, as far as the Dutch Government is concerned, that there is a future government based on a peace agreement, in which Assad would still play a role. I was dealing with Mr Schrijver's questions about the financial flows from the Arab wave states to ISIS and the resolutions he referred to. Resolution 2195 focuses on links between organised crime and terrorism. In February, the UN Security Council adopted Resolution 2199 specifically aimed at countering various forms of funding to ISIS. The Netherlands acted as cosponsor. The Gulf States are important partners in the fight against terrorist financing. They are also playing an increasing role in relation to the anti-ISIS coalition, including the working group on funding. Prime Minister Rutte called on the UN Security Council to promote strict compliance with UN terrorist sanctions. I believe that the Netherlands has so far proved able to raise the issue of combating terrorist financing in contacts with the Gulf States. I've been able to do that myself recently. From various sources, the first reports come that ISIS funding is drying up, both from the oil and from the total exploitation of the local population, to put it undiplomatically. These are two elements of funding that make it more difficult for ISIS to function, but it is certainly not so far that this means that ISIS no longer has any resources. The cabinet is committed both nationally and internationally to counter this funding of ISIS. We ourselves are actively involved in the so-called Financial Action Task Force in the anti-ISIS coalition. Dutch legislation is fully in line with all international obligations in the area of preventing terrorist financing, and is in fact at the forefront of this. Of course, measures also focus on unintentional abuse of Dutch financial channels. Perhaps the measures contained in the Integrated Approach to Jihadism Action Programme are known. Since December 2013, 15 persons have been added to the national terrorist list. Their financial assets have been frozen and there is a ban on making their financial resources available. In addition, there are other measures, which are a little more detailed and I would not like to go into them now, but they are beginning to be effective. We have always said that the fight against ISIS will take a long time and can move. There's all kinds of risks. We are going to talk about the problem of hybrid warfare later, but it seems to me to be very essential to defuse funding. With the oil companies, a policy is being developed to prevent as many gaps as possible, so to speak, so that oil exports can take place that generate revenue to purchase arms or other materials.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-8.u9	I would ask the Minister to respond to a letter opinion from one of his advisory committees, the Advisory Committee on People's Rights (CAVV). Following the Security Council's series of anti-terrorist resolutions, this committee stated that the term 'terrorism' is rather indeterminate. It can also lend itself to abuse. In a number of countries in the region we are discussing tonight, we see that members of the opposition are soon accused of terrorist acts. The Consultative Commission recommends that the Minister give a more specific content to the concepts of "terrorism," "terrorism" and "terrorists." What's the Minister's response?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-8.u10	The cleanliness requires me to formally inform the committee, but I am very prepared to take note of a number of things. A major problem with the definition of terrorism is that anyone who is a freedom fighter for one can be regarded by the other as a terrorist. There is no uniform understanding of what "terrorism" is as a criminal offence. Because there is such controversy about it and as a result of that changing balance of power in the world, that contradiction has become even sharper. In fact, that discussion has been shut down for ten years. There's just no consensus. Terrorism is essentially a national crime with more and more international ramifications. UN Security Council Resolution 2178 points out several places that measures against foreign terrorist fighters should be in accordance with international law. This is emphasised not only in the preamble but also in several operational paragraphs. It is an important indication of the interpretation of the resolution when states implement it. At the same time, it cannot be assumed in advance that some States will try to abuse the resolution. Since there is no agreement on this definition and the discussion is still going on, we cannot, for the time being, produce results that we want to achieve. The Netherlands attaches great importance to this resolution and its obligations on criminal prosecution of foreign terrorist fighters, but also recognizes other methods of combating terrorism. That is why we are actively committed to what is called the Global Counterterrorism Forum (GCTF), a multilateral forum consisting of 15 Western and 15 non-Western states. We are trying to reach agreement. You're in difficult alliances. We are trying to confront those who are actually sympathetic to terrorism and who are using a different definition, and those who are keen to oppose it, fortunately, that a growing majority should be prevented to combat abuses of human rights. At the same time, we are trying to come up with recommendations to deal with this in the GCTF. Among other things, specific attention is paid to the reintegration and rehabilitation of convicted terrorists.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-8.u11	I listen with interest to the Minister about what we are now trying to do in Iraq to reduce the breeding ground for something like Islamic State, which we have not actually done in the last ten years. I think we agree on many points on the need for these measures. What I have questions about is effectiveness. We agree that we should have the financial resources forced on us, especially from Qatar and Saudi Arabia, but can we do so? We can see and control a lot in the international money world, but can we? A second point that plays is the military equipment of Islamic State. It doesn't fall from the sky, it almost comes directly from the Iraqi army. Are we effective in combating this? How do we prevent entire groups from defecting with their equipment? A third point is to reduce the oil production of Islamic State. That's the goal, but can you actually do that? That oil was not only produced, but also sold to Turkey. In terms of effectiveness, I also have questions about the bombings. During the General Reviews, the Prime Minister said: after six months of bombing, we see how far we are. How far along are we now? My information shows that Islamic State does not sit on a football field with a big black flag and says: here we are, throw a bomb on it. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So the bombs fall on the Sunni people of Iraq. And that can at least be a reason to drive people in the wrong direction. We agree on most of the steps to be taken, but how does the Minister assess their effectiveness?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-8.u12	Mr. Franken next.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-8.u13	My interruption relates to Mr Kox's first point. It's the procedure that matters to me. If you want to stop financial flows, you need to take action through banks, through legal entities and through all kinds of persons. That is not only with bombs, but also with the executive tasks of the financial institutions. I assume they're working with blacklists. What kind of lists are those? Is that the black list originally drawn up by the United Nations? Are there any legal measures against this? Can you object? Or does this happen to people without them knowing where it came from? We have seen this happen a few times in Europe. How is this implemented?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-8.u14	I'll start with the question of effectiveness. There are a number of positive developments to be observed in the fight against ISIS. Firstly, there is an intensive coalition and an intensive coalition consultation. There is broad agreement on how to combat ISIS. This agreement exists between countries which are not normally on the same lines. Secondly, on the question of financial resources, I should like to come back to the question that was specifically asked about this, and the reports I have seen, from the coalition, indicate that there will be a prohibition of ISIS. This concerns oil revenues and what is drawn from the local population. That will also be less, so that can also have a dramatic effect. At the same time, the financial institutions work very closely together. In the Netherlands this concerns the Dutch Financial Intelligence Unit. This gives priority to the financial identification of possible jihadists and what they call "facilitators" for the benefit of the prosecution and the investigation services. To detect such transactions, the Financial Intelligence Unit prepares profiles with risk indicators for banks. Then you can see what kind of transactions are risky, and that is of course done in other countries as well. Cooperation has intensified, including between the authorities involved in the Netherlands. Among other things, it concerns the prosecution, the FIOD and DNB. As far as the lists are concerned, of course, the United Nations lists also depend on the information provided by Member States. This can also be information from the Netherlands as a Member State. That is, of course, looked very closely at. The Public Prosecutor's Office has to do with this, as well as the investigation services and the NCTV. On the basis of the law, a decision is taken at some point, for example on the freezing of financial assets. This is also taken up by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, on the basis of the opinions he receives. Indeed, in relation to the European terrorism lists, there has always been a discussion about the question: if you insist, how do you get off? That is a very real question. I would like to inform the Chamber again about what exactly is going on; there are opportunities to do so. I could do so in writing, if the Chamber would like to do so. On the question of the peace coalition, I think I said something. There are a number of proposals for this political strategy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-8.u15	I also had a question about measuring the effectiveness of a six-month bombing. Does this actually lead to problems for ISIS or is it creating a new breeding ground for people who say: now we are being bombarded from the air?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-8.u16	I think that the Secretary of Defense will be able to discuss more about her responsibility and how that happens. She knows a lot more about that than I do. I say immediately that based on the information we have from the alliance, there is certainly containment in Iraq. Together with the peshmergas, a number of areas have also been liberated, giving the population new opportunities. There are no bombs thrown on the population. So it is not the case that the people are being bombed. It's about strategic targets. I think the Secretary of Defense will be able to inform you about this later. Mr Schrijver asked whether it would be possible to have a UN peacekeeping operation in Syria. I understand the feelings of wanting to do something, as we do, about this hopeless situation. I myself worked for a UN peacekeeping mission and I know that there should be a very robust UN peacekeeping mission in Syria for that. Then at the beginning you have the problem that there is no UN Security Council resolution. The Russian and Chinese veto depend on that. So there is simply no consensus on that. The question then is: if there were and there would be opportunities to achieve a protection task, then you must know very well what the mission's purpose is. Is that fighting ISIS? Is that fighting Assad? Or is such a mission going to be completely stuck on what should actually be combated? The high risk is that this would lead to greater differences of opinion in the international community rather than smaller ones. Should there be a mandate, such a mission will have to stand in a very dangerous and unstable environment. The question is how effective such a mission can be. If a mandate were to be given in the Security Council and the parties would agree on this, then I do not think that the Netherlands is in principle opposed to such a mission, regardless of our own role in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-8.u17	I did have a question about the possibility of such a mandate. The minister says that Russia and China are going to veto it. What exactly is he distracting from? I have said in my speech that there is no sign that these two permanent members have any sympathy for ISIS or other radicalised groups in that area. I know they still have links with the Assad regime, but perhaps the Assad regime will also benefit from a blue helmet operation in certain parts of Syria. We are not a little caught up in the view that the Russians and the Chinese are holding everything back, while they have the impression: look, they are going unilaterally again, as they did in 2002 and 2003, and they are being bombarded without any proper international mandate in any case vis-à-vis Syria.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-8.u18	The talks we have had with Mr De Mistura and the diplomatic contacts we have made have clearly shown that there is no support for a UN peacekeeping mission. I do not think it is out of the question that if we continue, on the basis of the plan of De Mistura's freezes, which is not so easy to implement and which is not doing well now but can come back again, and on the basis of Geneva I, if bottom-up and top-down come together, consensus will be reached on a UN Security Council resolution. It is therefore not a principled position against or an appreciation that it could not or would not be desirable. However, in the view of the Dutch Government, it would be a non-starter if it were proposed now. However, we are, of course, working with others to see if we can reach agreement on a solution in which a peacekeeping force could play a role.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-8.u19	How does the Minister assess Turkey's attitude in this area? Turkey has proposed this on several occasions. Isn't that a logical ally?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-8.u20	Turkey has proposed a number of things, but not a UN peacekeeping force. Turkey has proposed, among other things, a no-fly zone. That was actually an idea that was not seen by the players I just mentioned as a possible or feasible mission that could be based on a UN Security Council resolution. They wanted to do so unilaterally. There's a lot of discussion about that. That too is something we should not rule out. I wouldn't want to do that right now. I wouldn't rule out any means. It is indeed easy to reject something. The Turkish Government must also be involved in resolving this problem. You are also gradually seeing a shift in the Turkish position. First of all, it was primarily directed against the Assad regime, which may have led it to charge itself with wrongly guarding the border insufficiently in terms of funding and smuggling towards ISIS. Now you see a different position, where training and equipment is used to work with the Americans. The Incirlik base is open. So I do see opportunities for a diplomatic solution. However, I am beyond all naivety as far as Syria is concerned. In addition, I say that we really need to invest in this. The criticism of the Dutch government so far has also been: you must invest as much in that political strategy as in that military strategy. Those who say that balance was insufficient at first, I am right. I've already answered a number of questions about dealing with Assad. A number of questions have also been asked about Mr Kerr's statements on the Responsibility to Protect. The same applies to the situation in Syria. There's no doubt about that. It is about protecting citizens from genocide, crimes against humanity, war crimes and ethnic cleansing. There is certainly international crime in Syria. This is particularly true of war crimes, as the UN Commission of Inquiry on Syria recently pointed out. The Dutch Government too is already involved in the mapping now of all these human rights violations, as cynical as that may be, it is necessary to do so so that justice can have its place, as soon as possible. As a last resort, the Responsibility to Protect also provides for military intervention on the basis of a UN Security Council mandate. I believe that it is particularly important in a preventive way that various measures can still be made available during a conflict. The Netherlands has already taken a number of bilateral measures, including sanctions, closure of the embassy and supporting NGOs documenting human rights violations for possible use in a future legal process. We are also active in supporting the Syrian opposition, which is so beautifully called non-lethal aid. Well, that's a little complicated, but we're working on it pretty fanatically. I mentioned a number of other initiatives, for example the special representative of the Netherlands, Mr Van Dam. We are indeed active in the field of deradicalisation. In essence, this is happening in the Netherlands and not in the rest of the world. However, you should not forget that it is important to identify international links between extremists and jihadists, even when it comes to deradicalisation. In addition, you need the postal network and international contacts. Besides, there is sometimes something to learn. For example, in Morocco, you can see how young people are effectively deradicalized. I have been there recently; the Minister for Social Affairs is here today. There are really interesting things there that we can learn to prevent young people going to Syria or Iraq. There is more to be said about it, but this is being done abroad, for example by making radio programmes. This can be considered very cynically, but that is essential, especially in countries where there is only one medium, where there is an authoritarian regime, where there is no possibility of knowing freely, other than via the Internet, of programmes that also appeal to young people. In addition, interreligious tolerance is very important. I have already pointed out: anti-Semitism, anti-Islam, anti-Christianity; we see all these old religious wars coming back to the Middle East. We are already quite active in a number of programmes in this area. There is, of course, more to be said about this, but I would like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-8.u21	In this context, I have asked a question about the responsibility the government sees in the Netherlands to talk about this religious diversity, in addition to the conversation that sometimes takes place in political areas. Does the government see for itself a responsibility to adapt to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-8.u22	Yes. Thank you for this question, which is indeed still on my list. The update of the security note states that organisations such as ISIS and Al-Qaeda, or Al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb....................................................................................... What does this mean, according to the government, for the way in which the debate on Islam is conducted in the Netherlands? We agree that there must be every room for religious criticism and freedom of expression, which is paramount, but that we increasingly seem to be slipping towards polarisation and unbridled hatred. How does the government prevent us becoming increasingly an unfriendly society with regard to visions that we do not like? We cannot do that from above alone; that is, of course, impossible. That can only be stimulated. It is important that there is room within the Netherlands for constructive criticism of religion and freedom of expression; I have just said that. It is well known that terrorist organisations use situations such as public discontent or polarisation. We have the anti-jihadism action programme, which partly responds to this. We now also have a programme that strengthens anti-Semitism policy. In addition, there are opportunities that are now being promoted by the Minister of Education, for example for teachers, but also in prisons. At the same time, there is something else going on. We have talked about the relationship between internal and external security. It is important to shape it in all kinds of ways. There is a repressive side to this: cooperation between intelligence services, border controls and passports. There's also a preventative side to it. When necessary, you give people a chance if they regret it. You will also ensure that conflicts elsewhere in the world, be they the Gaza Strip or other parts of the Middle East, do not go directly to our Dutch neighbourhoods. I've been to a number of cities by now. I haven't given that much publicity, because I want to see what the best method is. In the Netherlands there are discussions with different groups, but in a number of neighbourhoods you can see that there is actually no discussion anymore. One is watching Dutch television, the other is watching television from another country. You hear messages from one side and not from the other. Templates are glued to reality. Often there is an element of truth in it, but it is beaten up. Often a discussion is of great importance, also on foreign policy issues because they have become domestic policy. I do not have a clear list of recipes for this, but I think it should be given a place in the work of the Minister for Social Affairs and increasingly in the work of myself. I believe that I am a minister who must show that internal and external security combines. There is more to be said about it, but I think that is the way we should look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-8.u23	Thank you for this point. I trust that the Minister will continue to do so, because I think that link is very relevant. I have another question about the Responsibility to Protect that comes up at the end of my first term. It concerns the destruction of art treasures, which is amazing worldwide. Could that also be a title for the use and protection of blue helmets? Let me give you an example. I was in Palmyra a few years ago, an unprecedented cultural heritage that is now at the heart of the ISIS area. I don't even know if it's still there. You shouldn't think that one of the old cities along the Silk Road is flattened to the ground. That is a completely different approach, a completely different approach from humanitarian aid or defensive intervention. You want to protect something that belongs to a lot more people than just the occasional ruler there at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-8.u24	I think it is a very important point, firstly because the cultural and historical symbols referred to by Mr Van Boxtel stand for much more than stone or whatever material it is. It often shows something about respect that you can have for other cultures, which you also want to help protect. I would like to say straight away that it has been a Dutch government's priority for a long time. Indeed, the French do a little better than we do. A president like that says we're gonna protect it. I experienced it myself when I was in Mali on the basis of a project by the Prince Claus Fund: our protection of Timbuktu and all those Islamic writings. I am also saying this in the direction of those who said it is an Islam problem. No, this wasn't a Islam problem. Those islam writings were destroyed by the extremists as an instrument of warfare. A whole system was set up to protect them. We have also done so in a number of other areas, such as Afghanistan. I am certainly prepared to look into it further, but I know that our own communication section of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Prince Claus Fund are also very actively engaged in the discussion on heritage. I very much support what Mr Van Boxtel says. Actually, it's a message for us to put forward that even more impregnantly. I come to a number of things that are still in the south flank. I'll speed up a little, because a lot of questions have been asked...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-8.u25	How much longer do you think you'll need? The Minister of Defence will also speak. In addition, it has shown that it is at least 11 o'clock, no later than 11:30...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-8.u26	Then I'm going to answer very staccato, because the Chamber has asked a lot of questions about the world. I'm starting the Middle East Peace Process. Let me say a few things about it. Firstly, the Middle East peace process is a word for something that does not exist at the moment. There is no Middle East peace process. Secondly, it is more risky than ever. It has always been a risk to the population, but because of the radicalisation, the religious aspects and the extremist aspects that you find mostly in the Gaza Strip today, but to some extent in a very different way in Israel, it is more than ever a priority to move forward. That happens when the desire to do so is much smaller than ever. We see enormous divisions among the Palestinians. Hamas and Fatah do not talk to each other and there is increasing extremism in the Gaza Strip. It's complicated. On the Israeli side, during the last election campaign, there was discussion with Prime Minister Netanyahu about the two-state solution and the resolution of the Arab minority. That is why our Prime Minister called Prime Minister Netanyahu to congratulate him and say that peace is now so important that the two-state solution cannot suddenly disappear. The big question is always whether you can do something about it now if it's been so long. I believe that a number of elements are important here, at a time when there is no peace process and no new Israeli cabinet. They may not be great opportunities, but they're still worth a try. Firstly, Europe's role is more accepted than before, both by Israel and by the Arab world and the United States. Secondly, on the initiative of the Netherlands, Mrs Mogherini was asked to draw up a plan to help parties get back together immediately after the formation of a new cabinet in Israel. That is, of course, not only with Europe, but with the Arab world and, wherever possible, with the United States, which will remain a core player and which is increasingly more critical of it, given the visit of Prime Minister Netanyahu to the US Congress. Thirdly, recognition plays a major role. We can talk about this for a very long time, and that would take some time, but the Dutch Government has said to change its position: it no longer sees recognition as a final piece of the negotiations, but it is going to use it strategically. I can't tell you when that'll be. We are now in the mainstream of European policy. France, Italy, England, Germany and Spain are on exactly the same line, except Sweden. Sweden has said that it is now recognizable. I do not think that is a good policy. There are good reasons to do so, but in my opinion that should be part of the negotiations. That is possible and it is also more likely to succeed if it is chosen jointly with the European countries at a strategic moment, even if it is a national responsibility. There are therefore a number of ingredients to be taken up, perhaps against all the naiveties, but because of the urgency of the situation and the fact that Israel is now in a different relationship with the Arab countries, again to take an initiative. You have to take that very precisely, not too early and not too late. This is independent of all kinds of elements and questions that have been asked to the Dutch Government about, for example, the two-state solution. That is what we are in favour of, and we must not deviate from it. Secondly, it is perhaps possible that we will finally be able to obtain a United Nations resolution in which there is no veto from one country and which could define the basic principles of an agreement which we have known for 20 years in fact in one form or another. But it takes negotiation. Whether you like it or not, but when you make peace, you always make peace with your enemy. You're gonna have to put real trust between those parties. In this way, the Dutch Government will operate towards Israel and the Palestinian territories. Of course, we are in close contact with both parties, including Prime Minister Abbas and Foreign Minister Al-Maliki of the Palestinian Authority, who will visit me in ten days' time to discuss this further.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-8.u27	I fully follow the story and we have noticed from the various contributions of the spokesmen here that we are getting closer and closer to that strategic moment. The minister appoints it himself, but it keeps shifting if you're not careful. My concern is that next year, Obama and Kerry will be gone, and we don't know at all what presidency will be in America. I was not very happy yesterday from the first candidate who shouted in the wake of the Republican Congress that the war with Iran was coming back and that all the contacts, including all the bugs, had to end. Does the Minister see that strategic moment for the new presidential elections in the United States or beyond? Now let's name a time horizon or does the Minister not agree with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-8.u28	If you don't mind, I'm not gonna go into what good and bad candidates are for the U.S. presidential election. The approach of the Dutch government is not that we move forward nicely. She has just said that she no longer wants to see it as a final piece, so you automatically know that then one country has the right of veto. It is a fairly essential change, which puts us in Europe's mainstream. A strategic moment is when you know that it contributes to the success of the peace process. I hope this is as soon as possible. As far as I'm concerned, it's as soon as possible. I don't want to wait for that either; the sooner the better. However, I do not think it makes sense to do it now. I have given my argument for that. You can differ on that, because there are very legitimate reasons why you can say that you can now. In the legal sense, there will not be much opposition to this either. I have had a discussion on this with Mr Schrijver before. We could have talked about this for a while longer, but there are elements that allow you to follow the reasoning that it is not legally problematic. I am formulating it politically, because a few elements are still important. However, it remains a political choice, also for the Dutch government. Europe cannot commit us to this, but I would prefer to do so together now that there is no difference of opinion in Europe either. Apart from the fact that Sweden has now unilaterally recognised this and there are a number of other countries that have already done so in the time they were still part of the Warsaw Pact, there is no difference in the view that there is a package of instruments and that the High Representative is now going to determine her policy, with no taboos. That is what we support, but to anticipate this unilaterally now seems to me to be clumsy, even for a number of other reasons.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-8.u29	I can go a long way with the Minister's reasoning, and I am also pleased that he has highlighted that recognition is not the end of the peace negotiations, but will be part of the process. The Minister says that a strategic momentum is being chosen. But what exactly is he going to do? Does he see himself in the old theory as a midwife, a midwife, to help the new state of Palestine in the world? Can he respond to my group's theory, broadly based on international law, that Palestine has long existed and that it is actually a delayed recognition of the existing situation, a normalization of legal relations between the Netherlands and the Palestinian Authority, for example, many of which we already have? We make contracts, we exchange diplomats, and we sit with them at the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-8.u30	Mr. Kox next to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-8.u31	We will not take the Minister off the path he indicates. There's logic in that. What is important is that we are kept informed of the progress of the situation. Otherwise, Mr Schrijver's question is justified when it will happen. That the Minister cannot say that now is good, but I would like the Chamber to be kept informed. I saw Mrs Mogherini's first appearance in the Gaza Strip; many compliments for that, because we are indeed putting Europe back in the forefront of the discussion. How does the government intend to inform this and the other Chamber of the developments in the process? As the Minister says, we are now mainstream with this attitude, but that is a temporary matter. What Sweden has done can also be done by the end of the year, just like Ireland. We must therefore be kept informed about the development of the process. Can the Minister make a commitment or say something about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-8.u32	Yes. Firstly, I do not expect it directly, although I cannot predict it precisely because it is a bilateral responsibility. I do not think that any of the European countries that are now in this position see recognition as an end in itself. I have nothing against this recognition, but the point is that this recognition leads to what the Palestinians really want, namely a state of their own that is viable. Anything that can bring that goal near, that's what we're talking about. We are going to have a bit of a legal discussion, which I would like to have with the Chamber. Then we go to the Montevideo criteria: a permanent population, demarcated territory, effective authority and ability to maintain international relations. According to some lawyers, then I already come into the danger zone, which also includes the absence of unlawful acts in the process. It is certainly not the case that all countries with an area are automatically recognised. Think of the South African home countries of that time, of South Rhodesia and of the Turkish Republic in Northern Cyprus. There are many examples that make it even more complicated. However, I do not generally see the problems there; I agree with Mr Schrijver. The focus for us is primarily on opportunity and recognition, to promote the two-state solution. I am very willing to keep both Chambers informed of this, because we regularly discuss it in Europe. Mrs Mogherini has just been mentioned in this context. Every month we have a meeting of the RBZ. There is hardly any advice where this is not discussed, because of course everyone is concerned with it. This is quite a dilemma. There are people who are quite legitimate in saying that sanctions should be imposed tomorrow, others think that you should do nothing at all, while others think that you should impose peace. In our strategic-political context, that is not a set-up, because I think everyone sees the urgency for reasons that I have just indicated. We are now coming to this assessment. This also applies to the steps taken by the Palestinians in relation to the International Criminal Court. As a host country and a party of states, the Netherlands considers the further process to be a matter for the International Criminal Court. The Netherlands has confidence in the court and, in particular, in the prosecutor. Although the Kingdom considers that the State of Palestine has not acceded legally, because of the approach I have just indicated, it is a positive development that the Palestinian Authority considers itself bound by the application and respect of fundamental standards of international law, for example in the field of human rights. In light of my promise to respond in telegram style: the east flank.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-8.u33	How much time do you think you need?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-8.u34	Twenty minutes?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-8.u35	I think that's a little spacious. As far as I'm concerned, I'm still here tonight, but I understand that the Secretary of Defense is thinking of a time, and then we have a second term. If you could do it a little faster, I'd be delighted.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-8.u36	Certainly, Madam President. A minister's problem is always that questions need to be answered. If you don't tell me later that I didn't answer all the questions, I'm gonna go right through them. With regard to Ukraine and Russia, the question is what the muscle is and what the open hand is. The muscle is strengthening NATO when it comes to a number of measures that the Minister of Defence will be discussing. It is also a question of strengthening European security policy and sanctions policy. I do not agree with the view that sanctions do not work. I think that sanctions generally only work in the long term. But I say immediately: sanctions are not a policy in themselves. We are not enemies of the Russian people, and we do not want to force them to their knees. Nor can that be the only consequence of that policy. In all the discussions that we have had on Maidan, I have here and there a different view of what has happened there than Mr Kox, we cannot ignore the fact that all parties, including the Ukrainian Government, must abide by Minsk. Then it's about heavy weapons and local elections. But the Russian responsibility for destabilization simply remains. We should not be naive about that; we should try to change policy in the right direction. Fundamental rules of European security have been exceeded, including national sovereignty, non-use of violence, intimidation, hybrid warfare and so on. Minsk is important. The OSCE is a cooperation body which remains essential for two reasons. Everyone's in it, which makes it difficult, but also important. It stressed the importance of the Serbian Presidency. The fact that there is sometimes insufficient operation there is less to do with the fact that it is the OSCE than with the fact that any mission must have the means and access required by agreement. This means that the Netherlands did not just put extra money into the OSCE monitoring mission. The Netherlands also referred directly to four things. The baseline where the weapons are must be clear, you must have access everywhere, you must be able to use your drones and you must have material, in case you can't access them. That's what worries are about, and they're gonna stay there. The question of whether the UN would do better or not is open to discussion. Our view is that this is not the case, because the problem is essentially not there. The essence is the strengthening of the OSCE. There's consensus on that. This also fits in with the initiative of Mrs Merkel, Mr Hollande and the Presidents Poroshenko and Putin. There is also more to be said about this, but I will leave it at that in view of the time. We're not standing still, by the way. Forty years after Helsinki, which was about the great principles of human rights, economic cooperation and arms control, we are in great difficulty and it is therefore also important that we should have an initiative by the Swiss and the Serbian Presidencies to come up with a set of ideas to make 'Helsinki' much stronger and more up-to-date in a new phase. Whether that will succeed is, of course, a question that I would not and would not be able to answer right now. I've come to stabilise Ukraine. Firstly, it concerns economic support, humanitarian aid and support and pressure to ensure that local elections can progress on the basis of Ukrainian law. On the European security strategy, I would like to say that I believe that strengthening the CSDP is an essential element of this government's policy. We want it to be stronger and stronger. We support the High Representative in her efforts to choose a certain role in this. This indicates that, for example, when it comes to Iraq or Libya, we are not going to get in the way. We need to get there early, and we need the instruments to do so. That is quite different from a European army. But at the heart of the matter is that Europe has its own responsibility, which is becoming ever greater. The feeling among the Americans that they can wait a little longer and the feeling that we are surrounded by very great risks is at the heart of the need to do so. But I got the message right: that's what you can and want to do. In response to questions by Mr Franken and Mr Schrijver, the cabinet believes that sovereignty plays an important role in the question of authorisation for aid measures. It is primarily the State's responsibility to call in humanitarian aid if it cannot provide aid to the people in need. If the state does not assume that responsibility, the UN Security Council can also mandate the provision of humanitarian aid, in which case the requirement of consent can be put aside. For example, resolution 2165 of 2014. This offers the opportunity to provide humanitarian aid to the people in need in Syria; the Netherlands participates in this. There really is a different situation in Russia. In eastern Ukraine, Russian relief convoys have crossed the border without the authorisation of Ukraine and without the mandate of the UN Security Council. To those who have said that disarmament is no longer a matter for discussion, I would like to say that this is not the view of the Dutch Government. Nuclear disarmament remains an essential objective of Dutch policy. We are one of the initiators of NPDI. We will continue to do so very actively. If Putin "plays" in the rhetoric with nuclear weapons when it comes to Crimea, that is very dangerous. This does not facilitate the political environment to take unilateral steps by the West. At the same time, this makes it easier, as we did in the Cold War, and I would like to make it clear that I do not think this is a Cold War to continue the discussion. So there's no reason not to. I say to the PVV Group that export licences are granted in accordance with the criteria of the Arms Exports Act, which reduces the risk of diversion. On 16 and 17 April there will be a major conference on cybersecurity in the Netherlands. It's about three things: free internet, secure internet and cyber warfare. The Secretary of Defense will go into more detail. We are very active to see what we can do to define some problems surrounding cyber warfare. This is about the attribution problem: can you indicate who is attacking you? Another question is when the Article 5 procedure will enter into force. We already have problems with this in the Baltic States, let alone in the event of a cyber attack. We are trying, without naivety, to establish some sort of arms control regime at the conference. There are also a number of leads to tackle that problem. I'm almost through, Mr. Chairman. I am sure that a lot of spokesmen will say: you have not answered the questions well enough. I can give a lot of examples of the integrated approach, both in Mali, Syria and Iraq. I tried to do that, too. That includes the resources for development cooperation. As the Chamber knows, the Dutch Government is very actively engaged in the discussion on TTIP, which has been going on for a long time, also within the WTO, to achieve a protection of public interests in balance with the opportunities for investors to achieve their rights. That's gotta be balanced. It cannot be the case that companies are undermining certain standards that are national sovereign by national parliaments. That's the big debate. The Netherlands, in particular the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation, has made a number of proposals for this. The European Commission has repeatedly ensured that the EU remains in a position to maintain its high-quality social model. This maintains the EU's high level of protection. This is independent of the strategic importance which the Dutch Government attaches to achieving it because it does not want international standards to be determined by others, namely in China or elsewhere. So we must also be strategically engaged in these trade agreements in order to ensure that we get there properly. I also raised the issue of Guantánamo Bay in the European Union. The Senate report on CIA interrogation practices in the period 2001-2009 is very serious; let there be no misunderstanding about that. The practices described are contrary to international human rights standards. During this period, the Netherlands has repeatedly appealed to the US Government. We are doing so now, and we have done so as a result of that report. Disclosure of the report is a positive element in that context, as is the capacity for critical self-examination. We are now, of course, examining whether this also leads to criminal follow-up actions in the United States.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-8.u37	Has the Netherlands received a request from the United States to take over prisoners or place them somewhere?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-8.u38	Yes, the Netherlands received that request. We're talking about two inmates. We still have it under consideration. Mr. Chairman. I will deal with two more points in 30 seconds, with apologies to Mr Van Kappen, a great strategic thinker of the VVD Group. He talked about the Pacific Ocean and the Indian Ocean. You'd almost think the Netherlands would forget that. There is so much going on there when it comes to militarisation, lack of security political integration, economic interests and how to deal with them according to the rules of the former Prime Minister. The Dutch Government is working on this very strategically. We could talk about this separately. Recently I visited Japan and Korea. The Prime Minister is going to China tonight. Of course, such a visit is about economics and trade, but certainly not alone. Such a visit is also about the change in the constitution in Japan, about what the umbrella of the Americans means and about whether there are opportunities to reduce mistrust. We are actually talking about confidence building measures and the first step taken, fortunately, by the Foreign Ministers of South Korea, Japan and China in order to move forward. There is much more to be said about it and I know the very limitedness of this answer, but I cannot add much more to it at this time, given the time. I'm here to talk about hybrid warfare. NATO is in the process of strategically deploying it. Two weeks ago, I visited the Secretary-General, precisely because I am concerned about the security regime in Europe, about what is happening to the Russians and the various sounds you hear about it and about the lack of clarity, at least in public perception. Part of this is that NATO is preparing for a doctrine, a concept that is also feasible in the field of hybrid warfare. The last point concerns internal and external security. Let there be no misunderstanding that it is seen by the Dutch Government as a whole. I agree with the VVD Group's theorem that there is this intertwinedness. Our national and international security strategies are also very closely interdepartmentally aligned. That is not the question of whether you should set up a national security council, because there are quite a few drawbacks. Against the background of recent developments in the field of the relationship between internal and external, we set up a new ministerial committee in February: the Ministerial Committee on Security. It focuses precisely on the current threat in the interface between national and international security. It meets every week and is chaired by the Prime Minister. Participants are also the Deputy Prime Minister, Foreign Ministers, Defence Ministers, V and J and BZK, as well as the heads of various intelligence services and the Chief of Staff of the National Police. In addition, the Council of Intelligence and Security Services, also a sub-committee of the Council of Ministers, will remain in existence. It is also chaired by the Prime Minister and includes the ministers most concerned. Our commitment to international security is also being integrated by the Cabinet, both in its decision-making and in the implementation of international security policies. The Ministers for Defence, Development and Foreign Affairs and V and J are directly involved. We also make sure that our approach to international problems that can touch the Netherlands is multidimensional. A good example of this is our commitment in Mali. In short, I think that the coordination mechanisms have been dealt with quite considerably by the Dutch Government. I'm not worried about that. In any case, I have the impression from my responsibility that we do not need additional coordination forums, but always have sufficient capacity.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-8.u39	Mr. Chairman. I think I can keep it a little shorter as the Foreign Minister has already addressed a number of issues in detail. I won't repeat it. He has been clear about the situation on both the east and south flanks of the European Union and NATO territory. This situation has clearly deteriorated considerably. It does indeed appear that the instability and insecurity surrounding us will be of longer duration. The threat is very diverse, as many members have already outlined. We are obliged, not only in the Netherlands, but in the EU, in NATO and in the coalition context, to deal with major threats and risks in several places at once, both far away and closer to home. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has also discussed the interrelated nature of internal and external security. I don't think anyone's gonna question that anymore. The cabinet is therefore constantly forced to consider whether additional measures are needed and whether the various security players in the Netherlands can reasonably do what is expected of them, also in relation to the available resources. No one will have noticed that the cabinet recently decided to strengthen, for example, the intelligence services, but also the police, the Royal Marechaussee and a number of other things, precisely in relation to the intertwining of internal and external security. We will continue to do so because ultimately our freedom and security have a certain price. I think it's very worth paying that price, too, because it's kind of a big deal. In response to the Kuiper motion of the First Chamber, but also in response to the Van der Staaij motion from the other side, we are looking at how we are going to increase that, especially for the Dutch armed forces, but also of course specifically for the integrated approach. Mr Koenders said quite clearly: military intervention can always be the case, but preferably if it is embedded in a political strategy. So there too the interdepartmental and integrated approach will be taken again. We're not the only ones looking at how we're decorated for that growing threat and risk. So do the neighbouring countries. Allies and partners are engaged in this discussion. Germany is one of the most important partners for the Dutch armed forces. Last week Germany announced a very clear package of security and defence measures. To be precise, Germany had on 18 March last. decided to increase the defence budget by 2 billion from 33 billion to 35 billion. In doing so, Germany has made it very clear that it wants to adapt to the changing security situation and to implement the commitments made at the NATO summit in Wales in September. The German decision also talks very specifically about the situation on the east side of Europe, but also certainly on the south side. The fight against ISIS is also explicitly mentioned as a reason. In short, Germany is sending out a clear signal. Other countries do, too. I sincerely hope that the Netherlands too will be able to give a clear answer to the Kuiper motion and the Van der Staaij motion. I am right in saying that the German armed forces, and this also applies to the Dutch armed forces, have faced real problems in recent years with regard to readiness and perseverance. The details of the decision will be further developed, as the budget debate will follow in the autumn, as in the Netherlands. However, this 2 billion will mainly be used to increase the human and material readiness and support of the armed forces. In short, no exciting wish lists, as I sometimes get across the street for even more aircraft carriers in a manner of speaking, because it is really about readiness and continuity. It is about making the current military units better and more complete and their support. This is a priority not only in Germany but also for me; let me be clear about it. I have just indicated that it is unlikely that the security situation will improve further in the short term. This means that we cannot ignore today's reality. In fact, we will have to respond to that and that is what is happening. The Chamber has received several letters from me concerning the deployment of the Dutch armed forces. I hope that I have made it clear that the changed security situation really requires something from the readiness, preparedness, employability and the continued capacity of the Dutch armed forces. At the moment, they are clearly subject to restrictions. We shouldn't be too complicated about that either. However, we must continue to name the problems. These are also NATO's main criticisms of the Netherlands. We can't walk away from that either. I should like to comment on the NATO summit. Of course, the Chamber has also been informed about this. I would like to say that we agreed there that the trend of falling defence expenditure will have to be reversed. Non-members who spend less than 2% of GDP on defence defence and that is the case with the Netherlands have expressed their intention to halt the decline in that expenditure and to try to increase expenditure in real amounts as the economy grows. I attach great importance to this agreement. That really is an obligation to achieve results. In addition, we have agreed to make more of an effort, in response to Mr Van Kappen, that we will do our best over the next ten years to move defence expenditure towards that 2% of GDP. Mr Van Kappen and others indicated that the 2% standard should not become an end in itself. I very much agree with that. We shouldn't want that. In the end, there are many more things to be done. At the same time, it is now clear that the Netherlands is really dangling at the bottom with 1.15% of GDP. And then the pensions and waiting fees are still in there. If we subtract it, it's 0.8%. That is bad news, especially when you realise that the average of European NATO countries is 1.6%. Again, even then, the norm is not an end in itself, but it does say something about what the Netherlands has done over the past two decades, namely disproportionate cuts in the Defence budget. Especially in relation to the importance of the Netherlands in a stable international environment, that says something. So that standard is not an end in itself, but I take it seriously. The Netherlands is a member of NATO, the EU and the UN. The Netherlands is also expected to make a serious contribution, also in military terms. And yes, it should preferably be embedded in a global strategy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-8.u40	In the first term, some spokesmen also paid attention to this. What does this mean for your commitment to the Trêveszaal when it comes to the 2016 or 2017 budget? Would you give us a look at that, or would you also make it depend on what you get from the political arena? However, it is relevant to determine the playing field and to leave those goalposts in place and not to reschedule every year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-8.u41	I cannot publicly repeat what is said in the Trêveszaal, because there is a degree of confidentiality there. I can say, and I said this recently in the House of Representatives, that when I took office I quickly found out that the resources available were disproportionate to the level of ambition. The ambition level of the Dutch armed forces has been constantly revised downwards in recent years. I, too, had to change that level of ambition further downwards. At that time, encouraged by the General Court, the Ministry of Finance, this Chamber and the other side, I said that this could not continue. We have always been confronted with new budgetary problems and risks which suddenly seemed to manifest themselves, which perhaps should have been known much earlier. When we really put financial order in place, with a new system in business operations, another way of budgeting, life cycle costs and templates that were worked out. That's not a one-day exercise. For the past two years, the department has been very busy with that. We are also constantly getting audits from the General Court of Auditors, by the audit services. We are now at a stage where I have more than ever seen budgetary problems from the past and risks that used to be less visible. I can't ignore them anymore. My main message to the Chamber and to my colleagues from the Cabinet is therefore in fact the following. We are now putting financial order on business, and there are things that I cannot ignore. But please do not allow this to lead to the reinvestment of measures in the organisation, as that would be detrimental to the employability, preparedness and perseverance of the armed forces, which are already under so much pressure. I'd like to share that message publicly with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-8.u42	I would like to ask the Minister for Defence once again what she thinks of the Danish plan in which it was agreed that a fixed flow of money for defence will be committed for five years and that it will not be used in those five years. Only then can you plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-8.u43	I very much agree with that. I do not know whether we should follow the Danish example, because there are a few hooks and eyes to that. What Mr Van Kappen is actually saying, at least that's how I understand him, is: try to come up with a multiannual perspective and make sure that plans can actually be implemented; make sure that plans are not taken up and then smothered again, because that has happened a little in recent years. We did indeed have reorganisation on reorganisation, job assignment, austerity on austerity. We also had rapidly falling Cabinets and new incoming Cabinets. In every new cabinet you also had to do with some kind of exchange rate change. That makes sense, because each cabinet wants to make its own mark on it. At the same time, that's almost devastating for an organization like Defense. Units weren't canceled yesterday, and they're ready for tomorrow. It takes time for things to fly, sail and drive. If that lasts long enough, it will have a huge impact on the organization. I have discussed this with the Chamber on several occasions, including in committee last November. It is undoubtedly true that the changing rates that Defence faced at a rapid pace have not done the organisation any good. Defence, perhaps more than any department, needs a multi-annual perspective, also because I heard that again in the first term, we are supposed to be getting more and more international. This applies both to the integration of units and to the acquisition of certain weapon systems. If you do that, internationally, you have to be a reliable partner. If you say "A," you can't say "B" again in two years' time with a new cabinet. This would show you to be completely unreliable and put a bomb under that far-reaching international cooperation, in particular European cooperation. I am very much in favour of that multi-annual perspective that you are advocating, but that is not easy, I say right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-8.u44	I would like to point out that the Minister of Defence is going to make an effort to get such a fixed period for the defence budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-8.u45	I make every effort to ensure that the housekeeping book is in order and stays in order. This also means a guaranteed price adjustment, because it also undermines everything in an organisation like Defence. I am certainly working for a multiannual perspective. I'm not saying I'm pulling it all in at once, that's another story, but I'm doing my best.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-8.u46	It is to be commended that the Minister stands before her department as a trade minister, but for the sake of clarity: another government is free to decide what it wants. The minister says she's going to do her best to get 2% of GDP. I wrote down that she said that, but maybe she didn't say that. It is good that the Minister is on her case, but let us maintain that a next government, which my party would like to be a part of, does not yet feel bound by. It is nice and good to set out multiannual perspectives, but I also think it is a little overdone to say that the defence sector has specific problems with this, because that also applies to the police, public housing and public health. We should strive for multiannual perspectives everywhere, but for the time being this Parliament is stuck with the budget that we have adopted and not with any more.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-8.u47	That's exactly why I told Mr Van Kappen that I don't think I'm pulling it all in at once. I understand Mr Kox's point very well. Apart from being a minister in this department, I would like to outline the importance of a multi-annual perspective for an organisation such as Defence. No other department, not even the police, has frigates, heavy weapons systems, fighter planes, which will participate in the coming decades and have to be purchased internationally. That's what's going on right now. Then there are really other demands on the defence budget compared to the budget for housing, for example. I am trying to outline that it is a different dynamic, especially if we want to give this international cooperation further a step forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-8.u48	I would like to suggest something to the rulers and perhaps also to all colleagues, because this affects something much more fundamental. It affects a lot of departments. I remember that about 15 years ago we had a director of the Central Planning Office, Mr Zalm, who was very much in favour of working with capital services at a rich level, as do municipalities. Then you can make long-term investment schedules. When he became Minister of Finance, I did not hear him again, because that immediately affects the influence of the Minister of Finance. I do not want to trivialize it, because what you have deleted does not come back, but this calls for a fundamental debate on how we manage expectations, transitions and adjustments at a rich level. That could be an interesting debate. I would say: take that suggestion with you to Mr Dijsselbloem. We could talk in another setting, in a policy debate with the Minister of Finance, about how, in the longer term, we will be governed by changing coalitions, which we have in this country, becoming more financially reliable in implementation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-8.u49	Soon the so-called spring talks will be held again between the trade ministers and the Minister of Finance. I'm sure I'll take this suggestion with me. I was just talking about what was agreed at the NATO summit in Wales. I was talking about a result obligation to reverse the trend of falling defense spending. I also talked about an effort to move the budget upwards over the next ten years. That is different from what Mr Kox just said, but that is not interesting. I have made it very clear that the norm can never be an end in itself, but I am committed to it. In Wales, the Readiness Action Plan was discussed and adopted. This plan includes measures to enable allies to respond very quickly, flexibly and effectively to threats at the edges of Europe. In his speech, Mr Van Kappen addressed this in detail. He talked about the NATO Response Force and the Very High Readiness Joint Task Force, or, popularly said, the flash force. This is actually extracted to be ready for deployment within seven days, and some units of it even within 48 hours. This flash power can therefore be used very quickly, but it is also not exactly free of charge. This increased preparedness leads to higher costs. For this, too, the armed forces in the Netherlands must be further strengthened. We are closely involved in the development of this NATO concept. We do this together with Germany and Norway. That is very much appreciated within NATO, because someone will have to form that test bed. This will make it possible to draw conclusions on their precise design and cost allocation. A widely heard term within NATO is: costs lie where they fall, but in this case also really twenty-eight for twenty-eight. It cannot be the case that the entire financial framework falls on the shoulders of only a few Member States. We also have to discuss this with each other, but I admit that I would like to keep the Upper House and the Lower House informed, if we have reached conclusions on the test bed. More generally, NATO attaches great importance to increasing the readiness of the Dutch and allied forces. This includes much more than just that Very High Readiness Joint Task Force. These are measures in a broad area: combat support, logistics, more exercises, more ammunition, and so on. This is not only a subject of discussion within NATO, but certainly also within the European Union. NATO also has to do with so-called shortfalls, the military shortcomings and specific niche capacities to which the Netherlands can make an important contribution or already makes an important contribution. One can think of missile defense submarines, battle helicopters, special forces and so on. These are also matters to which the Netherlands must continue to contribute. For the Alliance and for the European Union, each individual nation is jointly responsible for the overall picture. We can't stand back in this. We will rather be called upon to take a step forward, precisely because we are already dangling at the bottom.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-8.u50	Since we use Article 97 for the flash power, we see an opportunity to react fairly quickly, but what about the Germans, I ask the Minister again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-8.u51	You're always ahead of me, because I'm still coming up with the questions, but that doesn't matter at all. We're working on that pilot with the Germans and the Norwegians. This also means that we are looking very closely at the decision-making procedures in the national parliaments. How does collective self-defense look? As with the Norwegians, the Germans do not see so much a problem there. If there is any question of that, under Article 5, it will become much more complicated. This debate is being held not only in the Netherlands, but also in the Bundestag and the Norwegians. We also intend to bring together representatives of the Norwegian, German and Dutch parliaments to discuss this. I know the First Chamber does that very actively. I also know that a number of Members of Parliament are very active in doing so. This ownership, which is an interest in being a reliable partner, applies not only to the Minister of Defence or the Commander of the Armed Forces, but also to the entire cabinet and certainly also to the national parliament, including the Senate. I'm very attached to that. It will also be an important spearhead for me. Although it is in a European context, NATO and Europe will end up together during the Dutch Presidency of the EU, in the first half of 2016. It is precisely the involvement of national parliaments in further European cooperation, the integration of units and the joint acquisition of capacities that will be a key to success in the way in which we set up our armed forces in the future, in cooperation with our neighbouring countries. I have just said enough about the need to strengthen the Dutch armed forces. We have had two decades of austerity. We may be proud of the quality we deliver, but in 2015 we have to note that not only quality matters, but also quantity is in fact a quality, especially when it comes to the need to have sufficient continuity. I shall now move on to the specific questions. Mr Franken spoke about international cooperation. He claimed that I claim that we have a leading role in that. I'll claim that one more time and most certainly confirm it. A number of his colleagues mentioned the current far-reaching cooperation. Think for example of the European Air Transport Command in Eindhoven, where pulling and sharing of aircraft takes place. We have maritime cooperation between Belgium and the Netherlands. We have the integration of the Air Mobile Brigade and the Division Schnelle Kräfte. We just signed the treaty to guard our airspace, including the Quick Reaction Alert and the Renegade tasks. The treaty still has to be ratified, but its benefit is clear. We're gonna need fewer planes and fewer kites to guard our airspace. In doing so, we are again free to deploy people in, for example, the fight against Daesh, ISIS, over Iraq, or in order to reassure our eastern allies. All of them are innovative forms of international defence cooperation. The Netherlands has always taken a leading role in this. I was just talking about the EU presidency of the Netherlands in 2016. This issue will certainly be on the agenda again. We can now say top-down that the 28 EU Member States must take that one step forward at the same time, but that is doomed to failure. I have a warm heart for Europe. I worked at the European Commission. I have been a Member of the European Parliament and I am sure of one thing: you can forget to move 28 Member States in this area at the moment. Defence cooperation is very likely to succeed if we allow this to happen from the bottom up. It may seem like nothing is happening for a very long time, but we can now see that a great deal has happened in the meantime. Very important steps forward have been taken. By the way, that is quite different from the idea that Juncker recently launched a European army. If you listen to his story well, you can hear a lot more nuances, but the headlines are of course of a different order. I'm sorry about that. I also regret that Mr Juncker has put it this way. That is a distraction from what we are doing now. It also distracts from the steps we are taking in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-8.u52	I understand what the Minister of Defence is saying, but I still have a question, also in view of the forthcoming Dutch Presidency. Mr Van Kappen referred to it and I myself referred to it, namely that the Americans' orientation is increasingly focused on the Asian side. Think of China and everything that's going on there. They will therefore increasingly advocate that Europe should do what is necessary on its continent as far as the defence structure of Europe is concerned. In this context, I have argued in my speech for greater unity of action in the EU, including within NATO. That's what I'd like to hear. I think that's a route. I also believe in blooming a hundred flowers from the bottom, but some control from the top must be kept, otherwise it will run away from all sides.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-8.u53	Sure. I very much agree with Mr Van Boxtel. I think that is also clear in the letters I have shared with your Chamber. Blooming a hundred flowers from below can only be done if you also give the necessary top-downguidance. However, that is something other than a total top-down approach. I'm sure that'll put the lock on the place. Just look at the developments in the United Kingdom. That top-downguidance is there, but as far as I'm concerned it's still very non-binding. Everywhere there is talk of European defence cooperation on a voluntary basis. There should really be a little more peer pressure there. That too is an important priority for me during the Dutch Presidency. Mr Van Boxtel is quite right to say that if we want to restore the balance within NATO, the European NATO countries must join forces much more than they do now. This can be achieved by using the frameworks already provided by the EU. Why should we miss that opportunity? The world panels are shifting at a rapid pace. The Americans are absolutely shifting their focus, but will not let Europe fall. That is what you now see with the threat to the east flank and the way in which the Americans have reacted to it, financially but also by taking certain risks. They have made it quite clear that Europe must be much more a convincing security provider than it is now. This means that we need to invest in further integrating joint units and jointly acquiring the capacities I was just talking about. So I think we are completely in line with that. Tomorrow I happen to speak at the Future Force Conference, organized by the Dutch military in the National Military Museum. I will make an extensive plea there for European cooperation, particularly in the interests of NATO. That NATO is 65 years old, but it's not ready to retire. The success is largely also in the hands of the European allies. Mr Franken spoke about fewer F-35s and the increase in the use of the drone. It's en-and. All experts attach increasing importance to the use of the drone, the UAV (unmanned aerial vehicle). There's been quite a misunderstanding about exactly what a drone is. A UAV is a high-quality intelligence gathering capacity and that kind of thing. That is why the Dutch armed forces will also invest in it. We're in the process now. That doesn't mean the drone, the UAV, can just replace the F-35, or the other way around. The military experts expect the F-35 to serve as long as the F-16. They also expect that the use of the drone will definitely increase further, but that cannot yet replace the fighter plane or fighter plane. Mr Franken said to my surprise that we are now putting our jobs too much in the hands of the Americans. If one fighter plane has been good for Dutch employment, it is the F-35. Look also at the figures published by Mr Kamp on this issue. For me this has never been a reason to purchase the F-35. Let's get that straight. I was just looking for the plane that was the best box in military-operational terms and that offered the most protection to our kites. However, if we spend such a sum and can get it back to us in large part by creating jobs in the Netherlands and dragging orders in for the Dutch industry, I will lead the way, together with Mr Kamp. That is happening now, and that is good news. Either way, the drone, the UAV, will be there, but not so much to replace the fighter plane. Mr Franken also asked whether, in the short and long term, we could take sufficient measures to achieve all-encompassing solidarity. I just indicated that NATO has quite a few criticisms of the Netherlands. There's no way around that, and we can't ignore it either. Mr Franken also spoke about sufficient investment in the Navy. If you look at the Defense Investment Plan, you'll see that there's going to be some sort of bump in the coming period related to spending on the F-35. Don't worry, I'll just say right away. There are also important replacement routes for the Royal Navy in the pipeline. Think of the M-frigates, the submarines and also the mine-fighting vessels. The point is that all armies have the right basic capacity. In the case of the Navy, it's obvious. I just mentioned the investments. For the Royal Air Force, it's about the fighter plane. So I don't see any competition between the armies. They are all needed to arrive at a necessary basic toolbox and to allow the Netherlands to participate in allied missions. I have already answered some of Mr Van Kappen's questions. He also asked a question about the VAT Directive. I sometimes get a lot of hats on, including in the House of Representatives; then I have to provide employment and then I have to amend the VAT directive. I do it with love, but I can't do it all by myself. Mr Van Kappen outlined the problem of VAT payments, the difference between them and the almost arbitrary nature of these payments. This is all due to the creation of the European directive and the exceptions that were made at that time. I know that the European Commission is currently reviewing that European VAT Directive. That has been the reason for me to contact Secretary of State Wiebes of Finance to see if we can create a little more order in the forest of exceptions and rules. All this seems to be very complicated, but after hearing the input this afternoon, I immediately made contact with the Ministry of Finance this evening. I do not yet know what the latest state of affairs is, but do you know that we are trying to create a little more order? I think I have been clear about commitment, target or pledge, about the commitment to results and effort and about stable multiannual development. I hope to discuss this with you when the cabinet has reached conclusions in response to the motions I have just mentioned. The EU-Battle Group was also discussed. It's a fact that it's never been deployed. It is also a fact that I, and others with me, have said 'use them or lose them' about it. That was very short of me, because I also realize that what comes around the corner when we practice together is good. It is good for European cooperation, it is good to get used to each other and get to know each other better, and it is good for interoperability. But it annoys me. The problem isn't so much a military one. It is mainly about the political will to use the EU-Battle Group. There are quite a few nice steps in it. Over the last year and a half there has been a lot of intensive discussion, including by the Netherlands and Sweden. They have said over and over again: we need a more simple decision-making procedure for the commitment. It is also important to include the national parliaments. Otherwise, we will have this discussion; then it has been decided to commit and a government can resign because the national parliament has not felt sufficiently heard throughout the process. This process is the direction that is now being taken. I suspect that during the first half of 2016, during the Dutch Presidency, it is still a subject of discussion. We discussed it in detail again three weeks ago in Riga and again found that it is the political will that is lacking in particular when it comes to the stakes. Technical improvement measures have been discussed. There have also been decision-making exercises, the so-called political excercises. I think this is very good, because you look into each other's eyes on the basis of different scenarios and, although fictional, make decisions. It is my plan to involve the national parliaments in such a political excercise in the first half of 2016.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-8.u54	I really agree with the Minister on this point, but perhaps even more so, because I understand the language you need to involve the national parliaments, but this is always about the discussion on sovereignty. Are you the boss in your own house or are you also prepared to give something of a mandate to Europe when there is urgency to act quickly? I'd just like to hear it in those words. I say this because I have heard our Prime Minister scream boldly in a not so far-off period: sovereignty remains for ourselves and Europe is only useful if we benefit from it, but we continue to be masters in our own house. This is just about the security discussions where you should be willing to step up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-8.u55	I agree again, but that is very good news in itself. I think that the discussion of sovereignty in this is becoming a bit of a false discussion. Of course, it hasn't been about defending a piece of land for a long time. These are major cross-border interests, which apply to every resident of the Netherlands. In addition, the question is how to protect and defend the major cross-border interests, such as trade lines, energy, supply of raw materials, cyber........................................................................................................................................................................................ You do that by working together. This also means further cooperation at European level.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-8.u56	In Riga, among other things, the Dutch delegation put forward a proposal to increase the employability of the EU-Battle Groups. That's part of the conference report. I don't know if the minister read it, but maybe she'll have time to take a look at it; it's only two or three sides. There are a number of proposals that I think they can help.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-8.u57	I don't have it on my retina, but I'm going to ask the A4's and I'm sure I'll read it very soon. I think that a majority of the people of D66, the VVD and other political groups here clearly indicate that further cooperation is not so much the undermining of our sovereignty as it is in the interests of our sovereignty. That's a big difference. I just told you, if you're gonna work together, you're gonna have to be a reliable partner. You can't withdraw units at the last minute. Let me give you one example. I remember very well that the French decided on Operation Serval in Mali. We were then asked to carry out an ammunition flight for the French with a KDC-10 via the European Air Transport Command in Eindhoven. There was a lot of discussion about that in the Chamber. I said, "I don't care because we're just gonna do it." We have committed ourselves to the European Air Transport Command, so we are also playing pool and share. Later it turned out that we didn't have to land in Mali at all but near there. But these are things that we need to be aware of and we need to talk each other through, so that we don't put each other through unpleasant surprises. When it comes to further cooperation, we cannot afford to hesitate at the last minute, withdraw things and therefore be unreliable. Even when it comes to efficiency, to which Mr Schrijver asked, further European cooperation can at some point lead to a certain profit in terms of cost reduction and so on. We have made great strides in this far-reaching European cooperation, but I have learned one thing in the last two years, namely that it is very often cost-effective. The efficiency impact will only be achieved in the long term. That can never be an excuse not to strengthen the armed forces sufficiently or to call for new cuts on the armed forces. In the end, this cooperation is particularly likely to succeed if you can deliver the right quality and quantity. In the House of Representatives I said: car-pooling is really not possible if you have sold your car yourself. We must therefore continue to invest in an orderly armed force with sufficient quality. Only then will we be interesting for Germany, for example, to work closely with us. An important lesson for me was therefore that the cost is very often for the benefit. I would like to comment briefly on the defence equipment and procurement policy. I think I've just made that clear. We are genuinely committed to strengthening European capacity through the harmonisation of the different defence policies in Europe, but also through joint capacity planning. At the moment, for example, we have the lead in a fairly leading project, namely the joint acquisition with the Poles and Norwegians of new tanker aircraft, the so-called MRTT. With this very innovative project, we contribute to the collective impact on an important military shortfall, a shortcoming. This is a very important step in further shaping the common capacity policy. Of course, we have the joint Code of Conduct on Pooling & Sharing, but there is too much no obligation to do so. In addition, we now have the so-called policy framework for jointly shaping capacity strengthening and we indicate what steps are needed for this. For a long time, defence was not the subject of discussion for our Heads of State or Government. It was in December 2013. This summer, in June 2015, they will discuss the progress made since 2013. I'm a little optimistic, but not about all the clusters where progress is expected. However, it is on the agenda. The good news is that someone like Tusk has also indicated that he wants to keep it on the agenda. I foresee that we will take steps in the coming years. Another answer to Mr Kox on the identification of targets in Iraq. It's a very strict targeting process. Let me be very clear about that. It is not that somewhere vaguely a target has been identified. That's getting very carefully in Qatar where everyone sits together in one command based on intelligence and very clear information. Sometimes I don't know how many hours of video footage is watched to eventually reach such a target. You really need to think about command posts, warehouses and supply lines. Of course, with increasing the air attacks by the coalition, ISIS has started to look for other tactics, not entirely. ISIS has gone into hiding, hiding, or has gone on, if one wishes, into the civilian population. This does not mean that the civilian population is being bombed or that the cannon is being deployed as such. In this respect, a very careful process has taken place to identify a target, but still the kite has the final consideration. If he thinks there's a real chance of civilian casualties, that there's any doubt about the identified target, if he thinks there's a chance of collateral damage, he'll eventually decide not to bomb. That's what's gonna happen. It's not something I'm sucking out of right now. There is a very careful process.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-8.u58	I have no doubt that the military do not handle this very carefully. Of course, but at the same time the Minister also knows that more than just ISIS people find death. We don't make an official body count, but in America they keep a pretty good record. It's not about a single person who's been killed by now. It concerns large numbers of people, civilian casualties who have fallen as collateral damage of what is happening. I understand that this is happening, because it is also the tactics of, for example, the Islamic State, but every bomb that falls on a Sunni household creates new people who have enmity towards the West, towards the Shiites. I've seen it too many times in wars. The people being attacked don't have much time for nuance. That is why I think that it should be made more clear that the bombings are effective, but I would venture to doubt that. I do not think that I am the only one, and there are quite a few people in America and Iraq who think that this should be monitored closely. One can continue to bomb, but where does that lead? If it leads to new breeding grounds for new terrorists, I do not think it will help us in any way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-8.u59	We can never completely rule out collateral damage or civilian casualties, but I speak for the Dutch F-16s when I say that the targeting process is very carefully contracted, that a very careful selection of targets is made, that after that it is also carefully considered whether there was collateral damage, whether there might have been civilian casualties and how the process is contracted internally. If there is a report following a Dutch bombing, it will not be put aside. Then it'll be fully investigated. That's what happens when we speak. In my view, there are now two cases where we are looking at whether or not civilian casualties have occurred. I do not know about the large numbers of civilian casualties that Mr Kox is referring to, but I am quite clear about this when I see a lot of information. I do agree with him that any attack on a family that has nothing to do with ISIS, so to speak, consumes lunch with each other and at that time becomes a victim, of course, leads to a counter-reaction. This may ultimately undermine the support for the coalition for a stable Iraq. That's something that's always being watched. That is why the Foreign Minister also indicated that military intervention should always be part of a political strategy. Mr Kox dares to doubt that. I would venture to doubt that again, because I am quite sure that the air strikes have struck the advance of ISIS to some extent. In a sense, the appeal of ISIS is being broken, not completely, but in any case more and more. Much of the attraction was in the military successes that were achieved. Well, that's going to be a hell of a deal now, isn't it? Is it a six-month case of bombing and then done? Certainly not, I think the Foreign Minister was very clear about that. It's a very long shot. There are no quick fixes, but we must continue to look carefully at what we are talking about, what risks there are and how, for example, we can tackle them further in the context of the humanitarian and political tracks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-8.u60	Thank you. That is why we need the second term from the Chamber. I call Mr Franken.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-8.u61	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to both ministers for their comprehensive and motivated answers. I would also like to thank my fellow Members for the pleasant debate we have had. There was a great degree of unanimity, but yet we all managed to add a single point or sharpen something that one had said. That made it even more beautiful, because someone else is even better at it, whether they know more about it, or have more experience. That is why I have at least experienced the debate as a pleasant debate. I hope that colleagues, but above all the two rulers, have the same experience. I'm gonna run a few points fast. There has been talk of internal and external security. I started this afternoon, but perhaps it sounded a little unfriendly, noting that we were missing two ministers behind the table, namely the Minister of V and J and the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and actually also the Minister of EZ, because energy security is also a very important issue. Mr Van Kappen took that up and spoke in that context of a fine institution, a national security council, led by the Prime Minister. It turns out that we are so well served, because before the question was spoken, such an organ is already at work. It's a coordinating body. I think it is right that Parliament should be informed if this is the case. If we all put a question to it, we are not here to ask for the road that is known, it should be given some publicity. In any case, it is extremely pleasurable that it is there. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has begun his speech with a contradiction between realism and idealism. When one speaks of realism in politics, it is usually called realpolitik. Apparently that's a good Dutch word. It's usually a descriptive thing, in the sense of: that's the way it is. Idealism is then normative. One often sees a difference between the two: one is quite different from the other. It may be a bit of a philosophical reflection, but a little later in the evening I would like to point out that there is no real difference. That idealism also indicates what you accept from reality and what you have to change. Well, that's what you know how to make differences between them. That brings you to activity. An important activity that is discussed here is hybrid warfare. We have all talked about this. There are a lot of aspects to that. It is not just a situation, such as in Eastern Ukraine, where resistance groups and rebels enter. There is no war between governments, between states, between established institutions. Article 5 of the NATO Treaty is, after all, a fairly quick confrontation. I have asked a question to which I have not yet heard an answer. It seems that ISIS is also active in Turkey. If that is the case, it is a form of hybrid warfare that we could be directly involved in. That is a very concrete point. I would like the Minister to take that up. The cyber war is also a form of hybrid warfare, because it can be started by one figure, who may even sit behind a computer with a bottle of cola and a bag of chips all night long, because he may be shutting down the air traffic control system of Schiphol or frustrating an essential supply in the Netherlands. I believe that Mr Van Boxtel has used the term 'under the radar of Article 5'. That can be the case in all kinds of ways. I would appreciate it if that were discussed at that big conference on April 16 and 17. Perhaps the Minister could give us some impetus to this. If I have read the invitation correctly, a number of 100 foreign ministers will appear there. If they are all there, it is of course a very dangerous thing, because it is difficult to secure, event. They won't all be there in person, but what matters to me is this. With regard to those hybrid elements, you should be able to make procedural arrangements. How far can we stretch Article 5? You must have thought about that further. During the summit in Wales, more or less "out of the blue" was said how cyber war could be caught underneath. It is not motivated, it has just been said in a brief statement that I was actually allowed to read in English with the President's permission. I thought: then I stay closest to the reality as described there. I would like to hear from the Minister how we are to deal with this now, because there is a lot to be done in this area too. I'm gonna jump over to the TTIP. That's what we've been talking about. Of course, everyone likes it when these two big markets of Europe and the United States of America have a kind of free trade area. This is going to bring us all a lot, but the dilemma of protecting the freedom of government's policies and protecting investment on the one hand, at some point, calls for compensation to be fixed if expectations which have been raised are not met. They talk about arbitration tribunals, but I get a little chilly when I think about it in the context of what our American friends want. They are used to a claim culture in which huge amounts deal with. How do we do that? How are we supposed to put together these arbitration colleges? Do we have to work with claims restrictions? Should we work with very international dispute resolution bodies? The ICC would be an opportunity, although I don't think it's very much to be preferred. I would like to have a single thought from the Minister on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-8.u62	I see you have a lot of paper left, but do you mind the time?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-8.u63	Yeah, I'll be right through it. I'll continue in staccato. I am pleased that both ministers have said that defence cooperation in Europe and division of labour and concentration are in the interests of our sovereignty. The Minister of Defence made that clear, but it was also to be found in the Foreign Minister's office. We have already learned from the contract philosophers and even from Rousseau that if you give a little bit of freedom or sovereignty to a community, you get a lot in return. I think we can take that lesson to heart. I'm gonna jump over to the OSCE. Did I hear the Minister say that he will give generous support to the necessary extensions of the special monitoring mission? It's gonna cost more money. From the summer 40-plus is celebrated. I hardly dare to put it that way, but perhaps this is a good time to realize the legal personality of the OSCE. Mr Schrijver has gone into this in more detail. Finally, I come to Guantanamo Bay. Human rights violations are recognised, but they go on and on. I think there's 125 more inmates out there. The Netherlands is considering placing two prisoners. I wonder how long this debate has been going on and how long it will last. Finally, in my first term, I have left a lot of time, President-in-Office, I come back to the cybersecurity and the drones I have just mentioned. The Minister gave a clear explanation of the UAVs. I referred to the Chief of Naval Operations, Admiral Greenert, who updated the F-35 program because he says that stealth technology is falling behind sensor technology. Could the Minister send us a letter to explain exactly what is happening and what is happening in the development of sensor technology? That stealth technology is always limited. No matter how cool you make an engine, the device can always be discovered. I wish the Ministers every success in their work under these difficult conditions, together with allies within and outside Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-8.u64	You have now used the time you have taken in the first term; that is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-8.u65	Chairman. On behalf of my group, I would like to thank the Minister for Defence and the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the detailed answer, which has taught us many new things. With my colleague, Franken, I also found it extremely pleasant to have a debate, including amongst ourselves. We have hit on many 'drum of war', but we have certainly made the 'bells of peace' sound. In this sense, we have been able to find a very good and optimal division of labour here in the First Chamber. I would like to make four points very briefly. The first is the following. To my best knowledge, the Minister for Foreign Affairs has not answered my series of questions on how to distinguish between all these non-state groups, however different. It was a lot of questions, so if he says "I have to chew on them, I do so in a letter," I can find a very sensible solution. My second point concerns Syria. I think we're past naivety with the Minister. But we are all a bit there on the 'Boulevard of Broken Dreams', because the situation in Syria defies any notion of justice and solidarity, now that it has been hell and damnation for so long for many citizens there. I am pleased that the Minister has said that the principle of Responsibility to Protect is fully applicable, even if there is no agreement at international level. This should also provide guidelines for a very active commitment in the field of "prevent, react and rebuild." I call Geneva I, the Mistura the envoy, reducing ISIS and sanctions. They are all tools and lines of hope to control the conflict, but I believe that we still need to develop an integrated vision of it much more actively. to see how a UN peacekeeping operation, a very robust blue helmet operation with support from China, Russia, Turkey, Iran, Arab League and the West could and should be targeted. My third point concerns the Middle East peace process. Here too, we remain between a deep fear and sometimes a bit of hope. It could be that the arrival of a new Netanyahu government in the last year of Obama and Kerry offers a momentum to pull the MOVP loose. In any case, the Dutch Government must make a very active commitment to peace diplomacy at European level. It is a pity that nothing came of the Quartet, of which the European Union was a member. Europe's role in the Quartet is shrivelled. We have a little hope that Mrs Mogherini will be able to emboss it again. We must very clearly distance ourselves from the continuing expansion of illegal settlements and the strong growth of the number of settlers, just as we naturally distance ourselves from the use of violence by both parties, including Hamas against Israel. I agree with several colleagues that the opportunity of declaring the delayed recognition of Palestine should be approached. In the view of the Labour Party, the recognition of the Palestinian State can certainly be a positive contribution to the peace process. My final point concerns the position and role of the OSCE. I welcome the recognition by the Minister of the key role of the OSCE in Eastern Ukraine and, in general, the revitalization of the organisation. He gave a somewhat optimistic estimate of the possible effectiveness of the OSCE mission in that area. He even literally said that he thinks and hopes that it will be better left in the hands of the OSCE than supplemented by the UN. I share that hope, but I do not know whether that will turn out to be the reality. That is all speculation I do think that the participating States cannot send the members of the missions with such unprotected status into the field. It is irresponsible to send an OSCE mission out with an important and extremely risky task without giving it the protection that other international organisations naturally provide. That's asking for accidents. If this happens in the coming period, I hope, of course, that this is not the case, then we shall come straight back to that discussion. In the framework of the Responsibility to Protect and the prevention arm, I have prepared a motion together with a number of colleagues. I have the pleasure of handing this motion over to the chairman. Chairman. On behalf of my group, I would like to thank the Minister for Defence and the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the detailed answer, which has taught us many new things. With my colleague, Franken, I also found it extremely pleasant to have a debate, including amongst ourselves. We have hit on many 'drum of war', but we have certainly made the 'bells of peace' sound. In this sense, we have been able to find a very good and optimal division of labour here in the First Chamber. I would like to make four points very briefly. The first is the following. To my best knowledge, the Minister for Foreign Affairs has not answered my series of questions on how to distinguish between all these non-state groups, however different. It was a lot of questions, so if he says "I have to chew on them, I do so in a letter," I can find a very sensible solution. My second point concerns Syria. I think we're past naivety with the Minister. But we are all a bit there on the 'Boulevard of Broken Dreams', because the situation in Syria defies any notion of justice and solidarity, now that it has been hell and damnation for so long for many citizens there. I am pleased that the Minister has said that the principle of Responsibility to Protect is fully applicable, even if there is no agreement at international level. This should also provide guidelines for a very active commitment in the field of "prevent, react and rebuild." I call Geneva I, the Mistura as the envoy, reducing ISIS and sanctions. They are all tools and lines of hope to control the conflict, but I believe that we still need to develop an integrated vision of it much more actively. It is useful to see how a UN peacekeeping operation, a very robust blue helmet operation with support from China, Russia, Turkey, Iran, Arab League and the West could and should be targeted. My third point concerns the Middle East peace process. Here too, we remain between a deep fear and sometimes a bit of hope. It could be that the arrival of a new Netanyahu government in the last year of Obama and Kerry offers a momentum to pull the MOVP loose. In any case, the Dutch Government must make a very active commitment to peace diplomacy at European level. It is a pity that nothing came of the Quartet, of which the European Union was a member. Europe's role in the Quartet is shrivelled. We have a little hope that Mrs Mogherini will be able to emboss it again. We must very clearly distance ourselves from the continuing expansion of illegal settlements and the strong growth of the number of settlers, just as we naturally distance ourselves from the use of violence by both parties, including Hamas against Israel. I agree with several colleagues that the opportunity of declaring the delayed recognition of Palestine should be approached. In the view of the Labour Party, the recognition of the Palestinian State can certainly be a positive contribution to the peace process. My final point concerns the position and role of the OSCE. I welcome the recognition by the Minister of the key role of the OSCE in Eastern Ukraine and, in general, the revitalization of the organisation. He gave a somewhat optimistic estimate of the possible effectiveness of the OSCE mission in that area. He even literally said that he thinks and hopes that it will be better left in the hands of the OSCE than supplemented by the UN. I share that hope, but I do not know whether that will turn out to be the reality. That's all speculation on my part. However, I do believe that the participating States cannot send the members of the missions with such unprotected status into the field. It is irresponsible to send an OSCE mission out with an important and extremely risky task without giving it the protection that other international organisations naturally provide. That's asking for accidents. If this happens in the coming period, I hope, of course, that this is not the case, then we will all come straight back to that discussion. In the framework of the Responsibility to Protect and the prevention arm, I have prepared a motion together with a number of colleagues. I have the pleasure of handing this motion over to the chairman. The President shall: Mr Schrijver, Mr Van Boxtel, Mr Van Kappen, Mr Franken, Mr Ganzevoort and Mr Kox proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas 40 years after the Helsinki Final Act, the principles contained therein are still of great value for security and peace, economic cooperation and human rights throughout Europe;]] [[noting that, unlike most international organisations, the OSCE has not been granted its own international legal personality, whereas its institutional structure and working methods do not really differ from international organisations with their own legal personality;]] [[also noted that the OSCE is increasingly being called upon to observe elections and for observers and peace missions to conflict areas;]] [[Recalling the fundamental importance of the success of the Special Monitoring Mission in Eastern Ukraine, which monitors the implementation and compliance with the Minsk II Agreement of 12 February last;]] [[Whereas the absence of a formal status of the OSCE constitutes a serious restriction on the effectiveness and legal status of that organisation, including as regards formal cooperation with States and other international organisations, as well as the protection of the members of its missions and its officials;]] [[calls on the Government, bearing in mind Article 90 of the Constitution, to take short-term initiatives to recognise the international legal personality, privileges and immunities of the OSCE, and to explore the basis for the treaty-based approach to the objectives, tasks and structure of the OSCE;]] [[Invites the Government to notify the Chamber by 1 December 2015 at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33694-C]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-8.u66	Mr. Chairman. I've got a whole laundry list for me, but given the time, I'll pick out just two subjects. I am deeply concerned about the Middle East and, in particular, the crumbling of the Arab world. I think the same applies to the Foreign Minister. If we ever want to find a solution, we will have to have some sort of dialogue with the constructive forces in the Arab world. I wonder whether attempts are being made to reach a constructive Arab dialogue coalition with countries such as Morocco, Tunisia, Jordan and some wave states. I do not think that the Arab League can really be our partner. Does the Secretary of State see it that way? Has a movement started to do this? I ask this because last week at Clingendael, where I sometimes teach Arab diplomats, I had a whole conversation with a number of Arab diplomats who are equally concerned about what is going on there. They also say that as Arab countries, they must try to get together and be an interlocutor for the rest of the world, especially for Europe, in order to solve the problems. Is that how the Minister sees it? Is the Netherlands committed to achieving that? I think it's an important point. I have two points for the Secretary of Defense. She talked about niche capabilities. One of them is missile defense. The new NATO strategy has announced that missile defense is one of our priorities. The Netherlands has Patriots, a scarce and expensive weapons system, and air defense and command frigates, which are potentially capable of doing maritime missile defense. Isn't that a point like that QRA where we could really do something together in pooling and sharing? The Germans also have Patriots as one of the few other countries. Can we not come to a pooling of these missiles? The maintenance and storage of these missiles are extremely expensive. If a Patriot battery goes to post, then the missiles from the pool can be involved. You can then pay for the valuable maintenance together. Something similar applies to the Missile Defense for ships. In the NATO discussions this has been suggested several times by parliamentarians, but I wonder if it also lives in government circles. In principle, the Netherlands, Germany and Denmark have frigates capable of doing missile defense. They have the launch devices and the radar upgraded. The problem lies again with the SM-3s, the missiles that are needed. They're expensive as hell. Is it not possible for the Netherlands, Germany and Denmark to do the software integration together to make radar systems and launchers suitable for the SM-3? It saves a lot of money if it's done by the three of us. Wouldn't it be an opportunity to pool those missiles and buy, store and maintain them together? If there's a ship in the mail, then missiles are taken out of storage, and when the ship comes from mail, it returns them. I believe that this could lead to a significant reduction in costs. It would also be a great pleasure for the Americans, because because we barely have that capacity in Europe, they had to get back six missile defence frigates from Asia they had sent there. They have had to retrieve them, while in Europe we have potentially twelve ships... four of the Germans, four of the Danes and four of us............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. I'll leave it at that. Of course, I would like to thank both ministers for their comprehensive reply. I should have started with that. I have to say, I've learned something. That's nicely taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-8.u67	Mr. Chairman. What good is it to have such an exchange of views today on the many and complex questions in the field of international security, defence cooperation and everything related to it. After all, everything is connected. What is striking in the debate is that we find a great deal of agreement on the analysis of the complex questions. Apart from a single distasteful contribution which has not been repeated in the second term, we have had a very good discussion about this. That everything is connected also affects some of the themes that I would like to highlight once more. I will start with the issue of Frontex and the whole debate on what is happening in the Mediterranean. We received a letter on this subject from the Secretary of State for Security and Justice this evening. This is a little in line with the discussion we have had today on how Frontex's tasks and mandate relate to the humanitarian task and the need to rescue refugees at sea. This concern about the relationship between border management and saving people, between defence and humanitarian commitment, is, as far as I am concerned, the common thread throughout the debate. How do you work on social cohesion within the Netherlands to prevent polarisation? How do you have a joint responsibility, even within Europe, in the knowledge that you are not entirely in line on all fronts? The Minister of Defence has already said that on the one hand it is an illusion, at least in the short term, to think that you can do everything together and on the other hand it is desirable, necessary and possible to take steps. On that point, I would like to underline the question of whether we can take another step further in terms of division of labour. So far, we have largely the philosophy that we could perform a very broad military task, but de facto there are all kinds of specialisation and job alignment, which I think is only very good. As far as I am concerned, there is also the core of defence costs and investments. For my part, let me be clear: the importance of a good military force is paramount. We have a military force that plays a very important, high-quality role, which serves military and therefore humanitarian purposes. This is an extremely important task, especially in this dangerous world in which we have to live together. I would like to emphasise once again the importance of common policies at European level, in foreign and security policy. I agree with what Mr Franken said about the TTIP debate and the risk of giving power to all kinds of non-state actors, in this case companies, to the detriment of the sovereignty of the states and of the states together. I have left the subject of Israel and Palestine in my contribution because of the time, but I would like to endorse what Mr Schrijver has said about it. Finally, here's what I'm gonna say. In the discussion on how we strengthen cohesion in that policy... the idea that everything is related to everything...................................................................................................................................................... This was also underlined in the policy letter and by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. In my opinion, and in the opinion of a number of colleagues, this should be even more specific. We need a little more insight into how we can strengthen the support of diplomacy and development in this world, especially at this time when all attention, rightly, goes to Defence. In that context, I shall table a motion. The President shall: Mr Ganzevoort, Mr Schrijver, Mr Kox, Mr Elzinga and Mr De Vries proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the power of Dutch policy lies in a link between defense, diplomacy and development (3D);]] [[Whereas increased insecurity in the world is often the first to focus on military measures and to put pressure on diplomacy and development cooperation;]] [[Whereas the States-General has repeatedly supported the strengthening of diplomacy and development cooperation in order to prevent destabilisation;]] [[calls on the Government to step up its 3D approach and to promote it at European level;]] [[calls on the Government to clarify how the investment in diplomacy and development cooperation can be increased and brought into line with international standards,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33694-D]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-8.u68	I would like to thank the Ministers for their response and their commitment to these important and essential tasks for our country and the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-8.u69	Mr. Chairman. The government said in its notes that security is not a matter of course. It is therefore useful that we have been able to exchange views and positions in a long debate today. The debate ends in two motions, which have also been signed by my group. One is in line with previous calls on development cooperation and diplomacy, and the other is a justified appeal to do everything possible to give OSCE people the protection we also provide to representatives of other international organisations. I hope the government appreciates these two motions as positive. I thank the ministers for their commitment. I think it's worth it. I see the struggle of the rulers to answer the Chamber on the one hand and let us go to bed before midnight on the other. I also have no comment on the lead of this contest. All in all, I think we've got a fair answer. The Minister of Defence is sometimes encouraged, perhaps by some groups in this Senate, which is all too enthusiastic when she tries to sum up what "the Senate" thinks. The Senate doesn't really find that much. Some groups find something and others find something less. I think, for example, that the Minister's idea that more spending on defence is really necessary, that it cannot be otherwise, can count on the support of some groups. However, other groups feel differently about this. The coalition colleague of the minister will also think a little more nuanced about this than she indicates. It is just that the Minister knows that there are also groups that say that increasing defence expenditure is not the first priority we can imagine. I'm glad the Secretary of Defense said that President Juncker meant his words more nuanced than he said them. But I've known Juncker a long time and I know he never says anything by mistake. He will soon come to Strasbourg, to the Council of Europe, and then I will present to him the Minister's analysis and see what he has to say. I think it must be clear that a European army is a step that goes far too far, including for this Parliament. The discussion of sovereignty is beginning to become a false discussion, said the Secretary of Defense. I doubt that. According to some groups, that may be the case, but sovereignty over your own army is one of the most important areas of sovereignty we have. In my view, "Lisbon" is very clear about the fact that the national parliament and the national government are concerned about this, however easy it may sometimes be to make faster international agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-8.u70	Despite the late hour, I am not letting Mr Kox get away so easily. Those who have advocated a broader approach to sovereignty are also talking about sovereignty at our European level and not at international level, just as much as a general cry. It's also about the fact that you occasionally dare to take a step further in what we've built up in 70 years. At least my group does not say no to that. I wonder if the SP stays on that "reluctant."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-8.u71	For the time being, my group is saying no to this, because it has been recorded in the context of 'Lisbon'. You cannot yet expect the SP to call for even more "Lisbon" at that point, although I understand that you say that from a defence point of view further cooperation would make sense. Further cooperation is one goal, but not the only one. The abandonment of national sovereignty in this essential area is very difficult for our group. According to the Secretary of Defense, NATO cannot yet retire. I'd be in favour of an ultimate makeover of NATO anyway. I very much believe that we need new security arrangements in the world and that NATO has survived in that sense, but we will not solve that tonight. With regard to the bombing of Iraq and Syria, I would like to ask whether, in the long term, we can obtain a written overview from the Minister: how is collateral damage assessed by the alliance bombing? If there are thousands and thousands of air strikes and if every air strike demands one victim, then we are talking about tens of thousands of deaths. I do not know the figures exactly, but I get too many figures to just assume from the Minister that things are almost always going well. I think there are other numbers. Perhaps the Minister would like to inform the Chamber about this. After all, it is also a military action by our country in another country. We should be informed about this. I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for his analysis of how we should deal with Palestine and the recognition of Palestine. We do not entirely agree on this, but I follow the Minister's line. I appreciate his commitment to keep us informed of developments. I think that at the moment public opinion in Israel has changed, external pressure is really needed because otherwise we will not move forward. I share the Foreign Minister's remark that a return to diplomacy is urgently needed. Especially when I am in Eastern Europe, I am amazed at how little we can achieve by diplomatic means. I have always learned that in times of crisis diplomacy must do its job. If nothing's wrong, all our diplomats can go on vacation. However, if something is going on, they should be working overtime. I hope that the government will be able to gain a little more attention in the future and make a little more resources available.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-8.u72	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the rulers very much for the comprehensive answer to all the questions. A policy debate does not always lead to harsh statements. The quality of the arguments exchanged is particularly important. Let me support the rulers, especially with regard to the interconnection of internal and external security. Minister Koenders also mentioned it a few times; I assume it is a broader cabinet policy. I like that because I'm really worried about practice and preach. If we continue in the Netherlands with an increasing hardening in the views about each other, we will become less and less credible in an attempt to advance those same values internationally and to find solutions. Hence my emphasis in my contribution to not forgetting the cultural side as well. It's not just gun clatter. I'm not saying that from some sort of pacifist attitude, because I'm really there for that where you have to, you show your teeth. However, we must not forget that other side. If we want to stay away from this increasing polarisation and invest a little more in confidence in each other, I think we are moving forward. This may not be the case in the short term, but I am convinced that in the longer term it will be the only answer on the road to both national and international peace and security. I have one final comment. I've asked the Foreign Minister why the government has stopped supporting the annual memorial of slavery history. It is a national monument and it is a national memorial, but the government withdraws. I don't think that's possible. It may be a strange element in this debate, but it has everything to do with the values I have put forward in the other areas of security policy. You're not credible when you say to parts of your own society all of a sudden: we thought it was enough now after ten, twelve years. That can't be true. I'm curious to hear the answer in second term. If necessary, there will be a detailed written reply, because this is not yet ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-8.u73	I see the ministers are able to answer immediately. I give the floor to the Foreign Minister. I'm just looking at the clock, and I hope you can do it in half an hour.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-8.u74	Madam President. I would like to thank Members for their second-term questions. I would also like to say that it is a very pleasant debate and, in my view, a very substantive one. Questions have been put to me and motions tabled. Let me begin with Mr Franken's questions on cyberwarfare. The reasoning is that cyber attacks can achieve such intensity that they have as much impact on a modern society as conventional warfare, for example. In such a case, the right to self-defense under Article 51 of the UN Charter may become applicable and the NAR may decide to invoke Article 5 through the existing procedures. This is always the subject of political decision-making, in which the Netherlands also acts on the basis of the analyses made in the case of cyber attacks, just like the allies. NATO has agreed that NATO, in close consultation with individual allies, will work to strengthen national cyber defence activities and capabilities. This will strengthen the resilience of NATO and its Member States. NATO may, inter alia, assist Member States through capacity development through training, training and exercises, threat analysis sharing and contingency planning. Member States are themselves responsible for the financing of these programmes. In the Netherlands, cooperation with NATO is carried out through the Minister of Defence. As far as the Netherlands is concerned, cyber attacks that exceed the threshold of an armed attack are also subject to humanitarian war law, the gravy in bello. Where the threshold of an armed attack lies and which rules and behavioral standards apply to cyber attacks below that threshold, it is less clear. The Netherlands contributes to the international reflection on this subject by addressing this issue at the Global Conference on CyberSpace in The Hague on 16 and 17 April. In addition, as side-event, a consultation meeting is organised by the Netherlands on international law applicable to cyber operations outside the context of an armed conflict. With The Hague as the legal capital of the world, the Netherlands can contribute to promoting the international legal order, including in cyberspace. In short, there are also some questions to answer about that case. It is quite complicated, but it is given serious attention by the Netherlands. We are also trying to come up with a number of proposals there. It seems that ISIS has also penetrated Turkey. It has been asked whether international action is being taken against this. We do not have any independent information that this is the case. Of course, it cannot be excluded that ISIS is also active in Turkey, as it can be active elsewhere in the world. Turkey itself has important reasons to fight terrorism. Firstly, the country has often been the target of attacks. In the past Al Qaeda had two synagogues in Istanbul and there have been several other attacks. Furthermore, Turkey faces the threat of these groups, but also of the Turkish Hezbollah, of DHKP-C and PKK. Fortunately, in this latter area, the peace talks are intensifying. Because Turkey is bordering the unstable Iraq and Syria, there is a high risk of attacks, as witnessed by the attacks in the border town of Reyhanli in April 2014 and recently in Istanbul. Turkey therefore supports the global approach to terrorism and has included groups such as Jabhat al-Nusra and ISIS on the list of terrorist organisations. Turkey is also co-chair of the Global Counter Terrorism Forum with the United States. Within this multilateral forum, which we are also in, we look at the way in which we can work even more closely with Turkey because of its great responsibility, which the country also accepts when it comes to receiving refugees. We talked about that earlier tonight. It must also take responsibility for border surveillance in the other direction. A debate on TTIP can be held on its own. On the basis of the assessment of the risks to ISDS......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation has written a letter on this subject. The aim of the Netherlands is to incorporate the improvements in the ISDS instrument into TTIP. Those improvements focus on limiting access to ISDS, limiting and clarifying investment protection, improved arbitration procedures with increased transparency and appeal mechanisms, high quality guarantees, an arbitrator's independence and clear safeguards for the parties to regulate in the public interest. The four areas on which the Commission intends to pursue the debate correspond to the areas where the Netherlands wants improvements, as well as the proposals made in the paper of a number of Member States to which the Netherlands has contributed. These improvements are aimed at the same goal, namely to ensure that there is not so much a level playing field but that what we have built as a social model in Europe is not undermined by this TTIP Treaty. It has a lot of potential positive consequences, but it is critical of the desirability that it does not undermine what we have agreed with each other in Europe and also at national level. This is why further consideration is being given to the appeal mechanism. It is, by the way, still at the negotiating stage. At Mr Schrijver's address I note that the quartet is indeed not very sparkling. He agrees with me. We can make different assessments of whether the path I have described is passable and whether it leads to success. That is what this is about, and that is what the initiative has to be dealt with, especially when it is still in its early stages. A number of things are being addressed vigorously at this stage. I admit that it is not a change in the world, but the fact is that the first priority is to appoint a new EU Special Representative in the field of the MOVP, Mr Gentilini, who is working as quickly as possible to shape an enlarged EU. This in itself indicates that activism that is now needed from Europe. Mr Schrijver asked how non-state groups should be qualified and how to deal with them. That question is not easy to answer. "Non-State groups" is a container concept, including many different groups, from human rights NGOs to terrorist groups. What these actors have in common is that they are not a state. Moreover, Mr Schrijver has already mentioned the criteria for being a state when we were discussing the recognition of the Palestinian State. For this, the criteria in the Montevideo Convention are guiding. Apart from the common element of not being a state, there are, above all, many differences between non-state groups. These differences relate, inter alia, to their organisation, composition and objectives. Much will depend on the context in which they operate and the resources they use. Non-state groups, for example, may be parties to an armed conflict in the sense of humanitarian war law, even if there is area control. In doing so, it is necessary to consider whether they are using legitimate acts of war or unauthorized tactics which lead to violation of the law of war. Where they serve terrorism, including the discussion we have had earlier, members of these organisations can be placed on penalty lists which determine how they interact with these persons and entities. In some cases, non-state actors can also play an important role in future peace negotiations. There is no internationally accepted or internationally recognised classification of non-state actors. It's also not that easy to make that in abstracto, because it's all in development. The renewal of means of communication also gives us more and more new forms. In each individual situation in which a non-state group plays a role, it will be necessary to consider the specific characteristics of that group and how best to deal with it. A number of questions have been asked about diplomacy. I am grateful for Mr Kox's words on this, and I very much agree with that. Twenty years ago we said that diplomacy might be a bit out of date and that we would do everything faster outside governments and diplomats. The opposite is the case at the moment. We also understand each other again, without drinking tea alone. We have good discussions to reach agreement when there are conflicts of interest. I would point out to Mr Van Kappen that it is indeed a transformation of the Middle East. I do not think anyone knows what this is going to be, for example whether the existing states will continue to exist. In addition, there are major differences of opinion between states, such as the Arab League. There are new strategic regions, such as those around the Red Sea in which Europe also has direct interests and where the traditional differences between a region of the Middle East and Africa are actually once again disappearing and where organisations such as the African Union, let alone the Arab League, with fairly large differences of opinion, are working less well. This means that organization-to-organisation discussions often become quite sterile and that makes it difficult to see how you can then conduct sensible diplomacy. I can only say that the Netherlands has been very active in this area in the past period. In recent times, I have been to Morocco, Algeria and the Gulf States and have spoken with the Egyptian Foreign Minister and Turkey. I've been to Baghdad and Erbil. The whole story is to see, of course, together with colleagues from larger countries, whether we can formulate a number of similar interests in the region. Should an acceptable agreement be reached with 'acceptable' I mean that there is no sign whatsoever of the importance of non-proliferation with Iran, the movement continues so that Turkey also cooperates more closely with the United States, including NATO, that some Arab countries are going to see the problem of ISIS much greater than before, and that this will lead to important developments in regional diplomacy, I believe it is possible to invest in it. I have no illusions, but it has rightly been pointed out that, perhaps at a time of proxy wars, all of which are driven by a number of countries in the region, the core of a diplomatic approach should be. With regard to the OSCE, I would like to say to Mr Schrijver that the OSCE's special monitoring mission has undergone enormous adjustments. I understand very well what he is saying, and I will deal with his motion in a moment. They're not military protected. The conflict has changed since the beginning of the level of violence. That's absolutely true. That got them in trouble. In addition, new tasks were assigned to the mission. We have also worked very well with the government on the issue of the MH17. We are very grateful to the people who have helped us in the mediation between Ukrainian government and separatists. But I insist that it is at the heart of the matter to strengthen the missions. The current mandate has recently been extended by eight months. In that sense, it is the most important game in town. The mission is widely supported. The mandate of the OSCE Special Monitoring Mission in Ukraine has not only been extended by that year, but has also been extended by up to 1,000 monitors. The Dutch Government has made an additional contribution of 36 million. She also focuses on strengthening the mission in order to achieve actual things. I am referring to the drones used to gain access, but also to support the negotiations in that area. We have no fundamental problems with the UN mission. We have the impression that the current approach is the best one. I come to Mr Schrijver's motion on letter C. I consider the motion to be a positive support for the policy. I have a lot of sympathy for the motion. The Netherlands has been striving for international legal personality of the OSCE for many years, precisely because of the essential reasons mentioned by Mr Schrijver: people are at risk and do not have the same protection. So it is about the status of staff and immunity. We want to keep doing that. As far as the political environment in which these new efforts need to be made is concerned, I have to say frankly what the political situation is at the moment. Previously, the US and Russia were opposed to each other on this issue. As a result of the Ukraine crisis, this has only become more extreme. Previously, the Chamber probably knows that a draft convention on the legal personality of the OSCE has been negotiated within the OSCE. Among other things, Russia has put a footnote to the fact that this convention can only be adopted if there is a constituent document for the OSCE. The exercise to arrive at such a constituent document, I do see as risky, because attempts will be made to completely rewrite the existing one. Moreover, the principle of consensus hinders us here and then arrive at a good story. Moreover, the absence of formal status is referred to as a serious restriction on the effectiveness of the organisation. There's something to be done about that. I would classify the lack of formal status as an obstacle, but in practice solutions are found. The best recent example is the OSCE Special Monitoring Mission, which has rapidly and pragmatically closed down the MoUs needed. Nevertheless, I continue to support Mr Schrijver's vision: we simply need to take better care of it and we need to stand behind it. I'm willing to try that again, but I thought it was fair to declare the force field. In the limited space that exists, we continue, supported by the Upper House. I am going to examine these possibilities and, in principle, report them to the Chamber at the time Mr Schrijver mentioned. I would like to say a few words about the internal hardening of views about each other. I agree. You can see that in our diplomacy in the world. It is not just about the harsh language, but also about the reflection of what is happening within the Netherlands, by the way, entirely on the basis of freedom of expression. That also reflects on how the rest of the world looks at us and vice versa. We have images of countries, based on CNN or Nu.nl and often very small fragments of a debate in another society. Judgement is good, there may be sharp dangers to the wind, but of course there are limits to that. Mr Van Boxtel asked a question about the slavery monument. For the Dutch Government, the element of slavery is not suddenly something that it no longer considers important, quite the contrary. I think that every sane person can sense how extremely important that is, not only for large parts of our own population, but also internationally. I will therefore contact my colleague from SZW who is talking about this. I do know that there will be a number of discussions with all the organisations involved this month. If not, it's next month. It will look at how, in the decade on this subject, we can talk about a symbolic ten-year programme for people of African descent with the various groups, which will discuss the celebration this year and the support of the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-8.u75	For the sake of clarity, I do not advocate further continuation of research. I really only focus on the annual national commemoration of the past of slavery, as a lesson for the future on how to deal with our past, with the inhabitants and perhaps with other population groups that it may affect later. We have also had such discussions about people from India and about the Moluccas. In this security debate, to which we attach internal and external security, I find it almost impossible for the cabinet to say: we no longer believe that we support the annual commemoration. That can't be true.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-8.u76	I've listened to you very carefully. I will, of course, convey this message to the Minister concerned. I understand the message behind it. Let there be no misunderstanding about how this Minister looks at this problem. Also know that the Minister of SZW and I also thought that OCW's are having those talks this month. I assume it is also possible to inform the Chamber about this. Your call is clear. The Dutch government sees an integrated approach as the essence of its policy. If I were here together with the Minister of Defence, the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation could have been there too, we would be working in a completely integrated way. The Chamber can count on that. We do this daily and we discuss it. I think that's essential, too. In all the examples we mentioned this evening, it was about the 3D approach. I mentioned that in the update of the security note. This is how we look at the intensification of our efforts: from the common need to strengthen the security and peace of the Netherlands and Europe. In that sense, we have heard the call from this Chamber well. That applies both to the Secretary of Defense and to me. We are living in an unsafe world, which means that the political investment - or that is a financial investment - is going to mean that we are going to go for that security. But that's an integrated story. This means that I am tabling Mr Ganzevoort's motion. in letter D as support of policy, if it is interpreted in a certain way. I cannot anticipate the discussions to be held in the Cabinet on spring note and budgets; that is not the issue here. The support of the 3D approach mentioned in the motion cannot be interpreted too lightly. Each mission and every political approach to conflicts, look at Syria and Iraq, each time it is indicated what the 3D approach is. I therefore agree with the first recital of the motion. With regard to the second recital, 'whereas the increased insecurity in the world is often the first to focus on military measures', I wonder whether that really applies to the Dutch Government. To be honest, I don't think so. "Often" is just too vague for me. Anyway, that's a consideration. "In view of the fact that the States-General has repeatedly advocated the strengthening of diplomacy and development cooperation to prevent destabilisation," I think that is fine. That is at the heart of what the cabinet stands for. "Calls on the government to step up its 3D approach and to strengthen it at European level." We don't have a problem with that. "Asks the government to make it clear how the investment in diplomacy and development cooperation can be increased and brought into line with international standards." Yes, we are going to make investments transparent in the light of the Van der Staaij motion, which deals specifically with the armed forces. Following the Van Ojik motion, we have used Sjoerdsma resources to ensure that diplomacy is in order. Look at the recent intensifications of the intelligence apparatus, for example. This is also about internal and external security. This is also an element of the 3D approach. There is therefore a responsibility of intelligence services, but also of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The request to bring this into line with international standards is fine, insofar as it is in line with the policy that has been set out so far in the agreements made by the Cabinet on this subject. I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. I see the motion as supporting policy within the interpretation I have just given.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-8.u77	Mr Ganzevoort, may I ask you to be very brief in view of the time?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-8.u78	Of course. I'd like to go to bed. It's good to get it straight. The motion is certainly intended to support the policy. In that last point there is a bit of the sting; I understand that very well. The alignment with international standards refers to whether we can reach the OECD standard. It can be formulated more clearly, but I understand you'll get into trouble. It is a repeated appeal, also from this Chamber, to outline a way through which we can return to that point where we have been and on which we should return to the conviction of many, hopefully also of this cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-8.u79	The motion deals with how the 3D approach can be shaped in a way that provides sufficient funds for the three elements: defence, diplomacy and development cooperation. You're talking to a former Minister for Development Cooperation. Let there be no misunderstanding about that. There are international standards in this respect. They're important. But what is stated in the motion is basically an intensification on the basis of the agreements made in the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-8.u80	Mr. Chairman. Stealth technology does not make aircraft completely invisible. That was never discussed during the F-35 debate. However, this technology makes it more difficult to pick up aircraft. That's kind of the core of stealth technology. I think it's a good thing that the development of sensors is taking a huge flight. That will only increase further. The statements to which Mr Franken refers, if I still have them clearly on the retina, have a relationship with the possible consequences outlined for the so-called sixth generation yacht aircraft. But the F-35 is a fifth-generation plane. It's very "if so," "maybe" and "ten strokes to the arm." At the moment, I have no indication that the US Navy would like to adjust the number of F-35s down. The fact that people are careful about decorating stealth technology is so realistic because there will always be a race in technology. Look at the current hunting flies, like the F-16. The current F-16 is almost impossible to compare with the F-16 at the time of introduction, as it has had a lot of updates and upgrades. That's what's gonna happen to the F-35. If Mr Franken is okay with this, I am not sending a letter, but the Chamber is informed about this in the amount of progress reports I am already sending about the replacement of the F-16. The stealth technology and the race that is going on in relation to sensors and other technological developments will of course be discussed again and again. Again, I have no indication that the US Navy is going to order less F-35s, JSFs. That is an important conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-8.u81	Mr. Franken, please, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-8.u82	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman. I agree, provided that you promise that these progress reports on the new technology, and in particular on this technology, which seems to be quite remarkable, will be reported so that we can get an explanation of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-8.u83	I have agreed on the other side to send a progress report in the near future according to the timetables. I am very willing to send that same report to this Chamber. It will also address the technology presented by Mr Franken. It's a fat suit, but I'll ask the Chamber to read everything! Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Kappen made a number of suggestions on the maintenance of the Patriot missiles. This is already on the wish list of further cooperation between the Netherlands and Germany. I'm not clear on the retina whether the pooling of the missiles is sufficiently addressed on that wish list. That wish list of cooperation between the Netherlands and Germany is long. You can't pick up everything at once, so some things around the Patriots have also moved a bit further in time. Because we were in Turkey together, we wanted to speed up very quickly. However, since there were some specific deviations from the systems and thus from the demands that were made on our people, we decided to hold off for a moment. I do believe that this should now be speeded up. I will then immediately involve the pooling of the missiles as such. I just wanted to talk to you about the LCFs. The upgrade of the SMART-L radar is under way. We know that. Last year, also in the run-up to NATO summits, we discussed this on several occasions. There is a study on sensor integration, in which the Netherlands and Germany play a role. Denmark is a little more complicated. That was also a discussion point during the upgrade of the SMART-L radar. It examines how the SMART-L sensor on Dutch and German ships can be used to fire and conduct missiles from other ships. Pooling of the missiles is not yet on the agenda. The missiles are delivered by the United States; Mr Van Kappen may know that even better than I do. The United States, but especially the other allies provide the sensors. Let there be no misunderstanding that the discussion about the possibility of pooling the missiles does indeed take place within NATO. It's just not on the agenda right now. I can say that the Netherlands has taken a very positive stance in this regard. In the next report on the further international cooperation of the Dutch armed forces, I hope to provide the Chamber with more information on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-8.u84	I propose that we vote next Tuesday on the motions tabled.
