ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-2.u1	Mr. Chairman. For some time now, it's been mandatory to take DNA from the convicted after conviction for a crime of pre-trial detention. This will speed up the detection of perpetrators and even prevent crime. There's no doubt that the Public Prosecutor's Office of nearly 12,000 convicts didn't take any DNA, even though it should have. It is not just about perpetrators who have committed crimes such as theft and money laundering, but also about murderers, rapists, assassins and human traffickers, I call that victim crimes. Many of these crimes are top priorities of this minister. My group finds it unacceptable what has happened now, especially in view of the fact that these types of perpetrators often commit multiple crimes in the same category. There are also victims to be regretted. The Public Prosecutor has already admitted his mistake on this point and indicated that a catch-up is being made. So the Minister does not have to say what is going to happen; my group already knows this. I've also read what the D.A.'s office said about this message. However, I would like to make one point. It is certain that the promised catch-up is very difficult, because the police did not have the address of many of the convicts; in plain Dutch they said: they have lost. Victims have no message of this, nor does my group. I therefore have only one urgent question to the Minister: what is he going to do to find out about these convicted people as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. I thank Mrs Helder for asking this question. The removal of cell material from convicted persons is of great importance for the detection of suspects, as well as for the resolution of serious criminal offences. I assume that the knowledge that a convicted person with his DNA material has been included in the DNA database could also have a preventive effect. I agree with Mrs Helder that if no cell material is taken from a conviction, this is undesirable because it is mandatory under the law. Before the Hoekstra Committee came up with its report, I've already asked the Public Prosecutor to make a catch-up. My predecessor had already started this in 2014. I say this in response to legitimate questions put by Mrs Helder in general consultation on 19 February 2014. I remember that very well, because I was the chairman of that committee meeting myself. I informed the Chamber about the progress of the catch-up action in the letters of 25 June, 5 October and 20 November. This was in response to the report of the Hoekstra Committee, of which this aspect is an important part. The Public Prosecutor's Office, the police and the CJIB are working on a daily basis. These are the same ones that are reported on the basis of the address details, but also those whose address details we do not have. As a result of that assignment, the police were expected to collect cell material before the end of the year for all persons who could be traced, because the address is known to them. This is 1,748. According to the figures as of 1 December 2015, that of 80% of that number has already been done. The police have confirmed to me that by the end of the year all DNA samples are expected to have taken place. Mrs Helder referred to the group of 10,765 convicts of whom we do not know where they are; they may be dead, abroad or hiding in the Netherlands. These convicts have been spotted and are actively wanted. The police are trying to track down the group with leads of stay in the Netherlands in order to be able to collect cell material from these convicted persons. This action will continue until 2016 and I will inform the Chamber before 1 May 2016 about its consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-2.u3	That is a lot of words, but I have asked about those convicted who have been seen but lost. I hear the Minister say that those convicted who suspect that they are still here are going to be actively wanted. A lot of them have also left abroad; the Public Prosecutor's Office writes this as well. My question is again: are legal aid applications being made? Is Europol involved? Are we going to look a little further than the border to be able to take DNA from these people? After DNA has been collected, preventive action is assumed. It must be very appealing to the Minister to get everything out of the closet, not only to actively track down................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-2.u4	In the letter of 1 May, I will state exactly what we have done on that point. For me there are at least two questions, of which I would like to know in the next two weeks. If someone who is part of this group arrives at Schiphol Airport, will it be automatically established when scanning the passport that they are still being searched for DNA? In a number of cases, they will also be people who still have to serve time in prison. Those groups overlap. We know we still have a few thousand of them. The other question is international alert. I do not know at the moment whether it is possible to alert these people internationally. Of course, requests for legal aid only make sense if you know which country you are asking for, and that is one of the problems. If we know where someone is, then a legal aid application can be made, especially if the person concerned should also serve time in prison.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-2.u5	I would like to thank the Minister for asking these two questions through me, via the PVV, and to answer them in the letter of 1 May 2016. The whereabouts, whether abroad or not, of convicted criminals must be found out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-2.u6	I share Mrs Helder's concern. I am pleased to report that both my predecessor and I have been very actively involved in this issue, since the Hoekstra Committee and before. It is not right, as Mrs Helder says, to explain to society that such a large number of people have either been released from prison or no DNA, which is important for our rule of law. I therefore fully share the concern expressed by Mrs Helder today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-2.u7	I have a brief question along the lines of Mrs Helder's justified oral question. Can the Minister state the state of play regarding DNA collection in suspects? We are talking about convicts now, but has progress been made in taking cell material from suspects and certainly suspects of violent or sexual crimes?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-2.u8	That was one of the points we looked at in connection with the Hoekstra Committee. In this area, a number of measures have been taken to ensure that prior cell material will be taken from suspects. As is well known, I have a bill in preparation to make it possible to take DNA from suspects at insurance, in accordance with the advice of the Hoekstra Committee. I hope to be able to submit that bill to the Chamber as soon as possible. In addition, a whole series of measures have been taken to ensure that DNA material is collected in the shortest possible time after the conviction. I note that, as at the time of the Hoekstra Committee, more than 80% of the people who are called up after the first call are still coming and that a second call is then made after which a large number of people come forward. The rest are actively tracked down by the police to take the DNA.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-2.u9	I would like to return to the Minister's answer to Mrs Helder's question, which is a very fair one. Everyone is, of course, concerned about the group that has lost, precisely because these people often repeat themselves. I have heard the Minister say that it is not yet clear whether it is possible to trace these people through Europol. Can he explain that further?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-2.u10	I said I don't know if that's possible, because I don't know if we can get those people on this base, just for the collection of DNA material, into those registers. On the possibilities that are international, I will return to the letter I am sending to the Chamber before 1 May.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-2.u11	Thank you. We shall now proceed to the next question, that of Mrs Karabulut. I understand that the order of questions has changed. I just heard that change didn't happen. Then we'll just stick to the order as it's announced and move on to Mr. Veldman's question.
