ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-12.u1	Mr. Chairman. It appears that in mental health care beds are currently being reduced and that more and more people are being treated at home. Intramural and outpatient should act as communicating vessels. But what does it turn out to be? The winding down of beds goes at a devastating pace and at the same time also reduces the outpatient ggz. So we're not dealing with communicating vessels here, we're dealing with leaking vessels. In general consultation last week, several Members of Parliament, including myself, gave the signal that more and more people with psychological problems would end up on the streets. The Minister said he did not know these signals, but he was prepared to investigate them. It is a coincidence that we have received a report from Security and Justice this month showing that agents have lost almost a whole working day each week to receive, soothe, transport and accompany psychiatric patients and addicts. Was the Minister really not aware of this? Does the fact that we have this report mean that we no longer have to wait for the Minister's investigation, but that the Minister can just tell us what she's going to do with this fact? I'll file the next motion on the bed dismantling. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Zorginstituut Nederland concludes in the report "Addictionary care in the picture," that there is no substantive basis for the reduction of beds;]] [[noting that the reduction of beds is at an irresponsible rate and that there are no substantive agreements between healthcare providers and health insurers;]] [[Calls on the Government, together with the sector, to draw up a good substantive plan for the number of beds for which clinical uptake is indicated, such as in the event of crisis, BOPZ, severe comorbidity and GHB detoxification, and to provide this as a basis for the healthcare contract in 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25424-263]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-12.u2	Then I have one more question. Yesterday the meeting between the Minister and the sector took place at the Ministry. Is it true that she intends to take mental health care out of the Health Insurance Act?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-12.u3	I call Mr Van Wijngaarden. Oh, you don't need the word. I'm sorry. I could've seen that, too. I call Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-12.u4	Mr. Chairman. It is a good thing that there is a national agenda for suicide prevention. Media, Education, Help and 113Online work together to reduce the number of suicides. Very often it's people with a ggz background. However, further scientific research into the backgrounds of suicide is not part of this agenda. Making more money available can help to reduce the number of suicides. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that there are estimated to be about half a million suicidal thoughts every year, that there are 25,000 suicide attempts that require medical treatment and that the number of suicides in 2013 was 1,854 the highest ever;]] [[calls on the government, within the fifth ZonMw prevention programme, to make funds available for research into suicide and suicide prevention, including:]] [[setting up a standardised way of anonymously registering all suicide attempts;]] [[the identification or development of risk indicators, such as biomarkers, which can be a predictor for a suicide, identifying the patients at risk; and]] [[innovative treatments, such as a placebo-controlled ketamine treatment study, for acute treatment of suicidal tendencies;]] [[calls on the Government to involve the Chamber in its work,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Van Wijngaarden, Mr Tanamal and Mr Pia Dijkstra.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25424-264]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-12.u5	Mr. Chairman. The Labour Party has great difficulty with the fact that there are serious uncertainties for insured persons with regard to the turnover ceiling. The current policy conditions make it impossible for insured persons to assess the impact of the turnover ceilings. The Labour Party believes that insured persons should be well informed in order to be able to make the right policy choice. It must be perfectly clear and clear to an insured person when one can contact a contracted healthcare provider and when that is no longer possible. This is particularly important for vulnerable people such as patients in mental health care. I would like to know from the Minister whether she is prepared to meet an insured person who, because of a turnover ceiling, cannot use a particular contracted provider if the insured person is not clearly and understandably informed about this in the policy conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-12.u6	I'll see if the Minister can answer directly or if she needs a few minutes. She's gonna answer right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-12.u7	Mr. Chairman. The content of the first motion, tabled by Mrs Leijten in part No. 263 has already been discussed in the debate. In that motion, the Government is requested to draw up a substantive plan for the number of beds for which a clinical admission is indicated, such as in the event of crisis, BOPZ, severe comorbidity and GHB detoxification, and to provide this as a basis for the care contract. In the exchange of views we had in the debate, I pointed out that the number of beds in the Netherlands has been much higher for years than in most of the countries around us. Trimbos' report entitled ggz in tables shows, among other things, that the number of psychiatric admissions and residences per 100,000 inhabitants decreased on average in Europe by 55% during 1980 and 2009, while the decline in the Netherlands was limited to a percentage of 18.2%. Of the 17 European countries surveyed, the Netherlands had the second highest number of beds per 100,000 inhabitants in 2009. This fact, but also the desire to deliver and get care close to home, in its own environment, formed the arguments for reaching agreements with each other to reduce the beds in the Netherlands, to strengthen the ggz-care in the first line and also to set up second-line ggz more outpatiently. We have initiated this process. I follow that with the monitor base ggz and the monitor ambulance and reform long-term care. Because of these actions and because of the additional investigation I have already promised in the consultation, I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-12.u8	I am not asking about the comparison of percentages with other countries. Whatever. I can't get any content out of that. I only see that Zorginstituut Nederland says: the bed dismantling, also in addiction care, we cannot say anything about that, because there is no substantive plan underneath that. That's what we're asking for. Can't we make a substantive plan for that? I'm not saying there should be fewer beds. I am not saying that more beds should be reduced, but I want it to be done on the basis of the content. I can expect this Minister to put the content first instead of percentages.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-12.u9	The content has already been looked at before we made the plan on the basis of which that phasing-out took place. Then I think it's a shame to do that over and over again. I'd like us to put our energy into building the neighborhood. Of course, these are two things that must be done at the same time. This has been discussed extensively in the debate. Then I said: I do not have the signals that the Chamber has, I am going to go after them, and I am going to talk to the parties who can tell me that well, to see if things are going well and if not, where we need to adjust. That's what I'd like to focus my energy on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-12.u10	Isn't it remarkable that the Zorginstituut Nederland, which analyses the care on our behalf and advises us to adopt policies, says that there is no substantive plan for the bed dismantling? The Minister says he is now. I would like to receive that substantive plan on which the 20% bed dismantling is based for the Minister's vote next Tuesday. We can then immediately see whether this substantive plan will also be followed when the care is contracted. If so, I withdraw my motion. If that is not the case, I shall put the motion to the vote. Please send that substantive plan that Zorginstituut Nederland says is not there, to the Chamber by way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-12.u11	We're not talking about a plan, we're talking about what you're talking about. What's it gonna take? What is the situation in the Netherlands actually like? That's what we've been investigating. I just cited that investigation. Based on that, you can see where the differences are. Does the Netherlands differ very much on some points? Are certain diseases more common in the Netherlands? We have talked to experts who have shown us where things can be better. In the debate I also exchanged the view that we even had the advice of experts that the bed dismantling could be much higher. We didn't choose to do that. We have opted for a quiet winding down. The phasing-out is going a little faster now. It often happens that in the beginning you do the easiest first, after which it becomes more and more difficult over time. I don't think we're getting any closer. I'm dissuading the motion. Mr Van der Staaij pointed out that suicidal trends were not moving in the right direction. We set up an agenda there with each other. It is very important that we finish that agenda. In his motion for a resolution, Mr van der Staaij asked for an aspect of the agenda to be strengthened and for further action to be taken in this area. I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. Mrs Tanamal asks me if I would like to meet an insured person who would not have been given any care due to turnover ceilings and could not have known that. We have agreed to provide good information to each other. A legally enforced information provision has unfortunately been killed in the Upper House. I cannot now enforce these transparency requirements as legislators. I would, however, like us to keep those transparency requirements. I will return to the Chamber later with the follow-up to that legislation. I can't force that now. The Dutch Healthcare Authority checks whether health insurance companies fulfil their duty of care. It will be examined whether they have sufficiently informed the insured persons in relation to what we have now arranged. It looks at whether a health care provider who can't get where he wants to go is well redirected to another health care provider. We have the supervisor for this on behalf of the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-12.u12	Can the Minister state when that investigation is ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-12.u13	I'm not investigating this. I had a law that would take care of this pretty hard. As you know, I will come to the House of Representatives as soon as possible with a proposal that will enable me to achieve my objective. Ultimately, it is about achieving objectives and not about getting there. I still believe that these transparency requirements are really necessary and should be enforced. I'll get back to that as soon as I can.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-12.u14	Mrs Leijten at the same point?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-12.u15	No, I asked the Minister another question, namely how the discussion with the ggz sector went yesterday. We have seen that the administrative agreement is no longer valid. Is it true that the minister there announced that she is going to take mental health care out of the Health Insurance Act?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-12.u16	No, Mr. Chairman. I discussed, in consultation with the parties at the table, how to find ways of achieving what you wanted to achieve with the law, namely better quality at a sharper price. You can apply all kinds of variations to that. I have outlined some of them. I have said that there has not yet been any judgment or decision on these possibilities. With regard to this aspect, I have said that there is still an investigation going on. The Room knows that. That's what we're getting finalized this summer. I've got that message from the Room. It's about the risk settlement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-12.u17	Okay. So now the Minister does not have the plan to take mental health care out of the Health Insurance Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-12.u18	I'm communicating decisions. I haven't made a decision to get the ggz out of the Health Insurance Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-12.u19	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this VAO ggz. Two motions have been tabled and will be put to the vote next Tuesday. Since virtually all the speakers are in the Chamber, I should like to continue the next debate almost immediately.
