ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-9.u1	I would like to welcome both initiators to Vak-K, as well as their support: Mr David van Dis, Mr Evert Jan Slootweg, Mr Hugo ten Zijthoff and Mr Dirk Slieker. I would also like to welcome the Minister for Finance, who is present as an advisor to the Chamber. I would also like to welcome all the others present in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-9.u2	Mr. Chairman. You are not used to it from me, but first of all I would like to congratulate the initiators: Agnes Mulder, Eddy van Hijum, who is not here today, and Mr Nijboer, who has taken over the stick from him. Loans to SMEs in the Netherlands are still dramatic. Banks are not waiting to lend credit to SMEs at all. Too many risks and too much hassle. It is not for nothing that half of all applications for loans are rejected. A great shame! The Netherlands has the highest number of rejections of SME loans in the euro area. Even in Greece, you get a loan even faster. Banks are doing far too much about themselves, their capital ratios, their strict rules and their risk aversion. They're full of brakes. It is therefore a good thing that we are discussing another option today, namely credit unions. The first question that occurred to me this morning when I read The Financial Daily was what a credit union really is. I would therefore like to put that question to the initiators. The ink of this initiative is not yet dry or the credit unions are already rolling the streets. The FD headlined this morning: "Credit unions are arguing about their legitimacy among themselves." What, according to the initiators, is a real credit union? Indeed, the term "credit union" would be abused by parties that only mediate in financing and do not have their own cash. As some sort of crowdfunders they would only make money with an intermediary role, so I read. In addition, they would only be concerned with profit maximization, turnover and commission. That cannot be the intention of the initiators! So again, what is a credit union? I thought it was a cooperative of and for entrepreneurs, not for profit and with a cashier. Do these mediators qualify as credit union? Surely a credit union must have its own cash at all times? How big is that greenhouse supposed to be? In the pieces I read 1 million euros, while I read €500,000 earlier. To what extent are there limits for institutional investors and banks to participate in a credit union with recoverable funds? For example, can an SME fund be a credit union? Are ING's Orange Fund or SMEs Financing ABN potential credit unions or bank extensions? Are local authorities allowed to participate? I read that municipalities and provinces, which welcome the initiative of a credit union, already provide subsidies. We must prevent the beautiful initiative from dying early, so that the cowboys run away with it, cowboys that provide private equity or venture capital at usury interest rates. How are the initiators going to prevent this? My second point is that until now the credit unions have not really got off the ground. We see, for example, the Central Netherlands Credit Union. They haven't made a single deal yet and North Brabant only got three deals in a year. So 40 applications from SMEs and so far only two have been approved. So 95% has been rejected. How is this possible? Where's the shoe wringing? Is it a question of funding or do the companies that ask for credit not have the business in order? Finally, I have two questions for the Minister, because he is here now. I read in a letter from the Minister of November 2013 that he is talking to Brussels; there you have it again. I wonder whether credit unions are now excluded from the CRD IV Directive. The Minister announced that he was already in conversation in November. How'd that work out for you? The last thing we should want is for Brussels to stick a stick between the spokes of this fine initiative. Smaller credit unions, i.e. up to 10 million assets managed and with a maximum of 25,000 members, are exempted from the licence. The initiators say: what does the Minister think? You're gonna have to ask him yourself, so here's the deal. What does the Minister think about smaller credit unions being exempted from any authorisation? What are the risks of that? Ten little ones are also a big one. Could it be that such an application for a permit is being evaded? What are the risks for the people who invest money? The PVV thinks it is a good initiative. I see I've run out of time. I have one final question for the initiators. Speed is required. What's the route? When do the initiators expect to be able to publish this initiative in the Official Journal?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-9.u3	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would also like to congratulate the initiators and also thank them for drawing up this proposal. As far as the VVD is concerned, it is a good first step, but it could and should be even more ambitious. Appropriate supervision is the condition, but credit unions should be given more scope to develop as a source of finance for SMEs. Credit unions are there for and by entrepreneurs, so entrepreneurs take their own responsibility. As far as the VVD is concerned, this type of funding should be able to develop further. There should be or should be no unnecessary barriers and rules. The credit tap is open to SMEs, the banks say. Entrepreneurs do not feel that way at all. Good plans and good entrepreneurs should be able to get credit and not depend on bank finance. As far as the VVD is concerned, the prudent economic recovery must not be hampered by insufficient credit, which ultimately costs jobs. The VVD is therefore in favour of credit unions. This can contribute to resolving the bottlenecks of SME credit and provide more choice for entrepreneurs. As far as we are concerned, the new funding is combining and stacking different forms of financing, such as crowdfunding and credit unions, as well as SME shares and private investors, possibly combined with banks. Only in this way will we ensure the necessary enrichment of the financial landscape. Banks in the Netherlands now account for 80% of the financing of SMEs. In the US, for example, that is only 20%. In the Netherlands, too, that will and must change. Reliance on banks must be reduced. This will allow SMEs to invest again and only in this way will they create more jobs. The VVD therefore wants to give more scope to these credit unions with a number of concrete proposals. It is good that there will be a specific regime and supervision of credit unions. Customised supervision is needed to match the risks, nature, size and complexity. This is not about consumers and the government, like banks, does not need to save failing credit unions with taxpayers' money. The exact rules to be complied with are further developed in lower regulation. There is a direction. The VVD sees the risk that in that effect much too much will be removed in the future. Why are many crucial issues not laid down in the law, but in lower regulation? There will be a limitation of the investment of the portfolio of a credit union in one entrepreneur or group of entrepreneurs of up to 2,5%. In fact, this limits the credit that companies can obtain for smaller credit unions, i.e. up to €250,000. This offers little flexibility and is certainly a barrier to more capital-intensive sectors. Why is this no longer taken into account? Why isn't there more room for manoeuvre by setting the percentage higher? The VVD would like the percentage to go up in any case. The limit for the exemption from the licence requirement is EUR 10 million. Given the limited risk profile of the cooperative form and the support of the entrepreneurs, this limit could be raised as far as the VVD is concerned. Credit unions can then grow more easily without directly falling under a heavy supervisory regime with high supervisory costs. Why was this line chosen? To what extent do credit unions between 10 million and, for example, 25 million pose a threat to the stability of the financial system? Is this limit necessary to obtain the necessary exemption for the European Commission's credit unions? There is also an upper limit of 100 million for credit unions, above which a banking licence is required. Credit unions have a very heavy unweighted capital requirement, much higher than banks. Moreover, credit unions are much simpler than banks. This upper limit could be removed, according to the VVD. Why is this upper limit needed? Is there such an upper limit in other countries in Europe that exempt credit unions? Is this limit also necessary in order to obtain the necessary exemption for the European Commission's credit unions? I now come to the supervisory costs. Larger credit unions face ongoing supervisory costs. Is it true that smaller credit unions - credit unions below 10 million, where the limit is now - do not have to deal with these costs? Initially, the cost was estimated at €14,000 for all credit unions. In the meantime, the amount is estimated at €20,000 per credit union. The VVD finds it strange that the AFM cannot yet assess its supervisory costs. It is also inexplicable why costs are suddenly estimated higher. Why have these costs so increased, what is the justification for this increase and why are the costs of the AFM not yet known? What are the costs of the AFM? The VVD would like those costs to be reduced. What are the options for this? After all, these costs hinder credit unions that want to grow. The European Commission, the PVV, also talked about this issue, still has to authorise the exemption. There is no idea yet whether this is being obtained. Other countries already have them. The VVD, like the PVV, wants the pace to be made. How soon can consent be obtained? To what extent will the law soon meet the requirements of the European Commission? Why can't the exemption be guaranteed in advance? After all, we're wasting time. Finally, the provision of information. Good information is important in terms of the VVD. Entrepreneurs must be able to assume their own responsibilities in credit unions. However, this obligation to provide information must not be allowed to fail, because it is not ultimately a question of consumers. The law therefore provides that information that makes a credit union available must be correct, clear and not misleading to those who receive credit. That sounds like the VVD's fine. However, we do wonder whether this also applies to those who make the credit available. The VVD considers it important that they should also be sufficiently informed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-9.u4	Mr. Chairman. Credit unions can be a success. The crisis has led to a decline in bank lending. SMEs, especially small ones, are affected by this. In the Netherlands and across Europe, business is too dependent on banks. That is much less the case in the United States, for example. A mix of sources of finance reduces dependence on the banking sector and increases competition in the market. Credit unions and other forms of financial innovation contribute to the spread of opportunities for SME financing, which my group simply welcomes. Credit unions are a form of innovation that requires regulatory adjustment. They need to be able to attract money from entrepreneurs in order to be able to provide loans to entrepreneurs. They differ from banks in organization and complexity and in influence on the stability of the financial system. That does indeed mean something for supervision. My group considers this legislative initiative to be a very sympathetic proposal. We also appreciate the commitment of Mr Mulder and Mr Nijboer and Mr Van Hijum, as well as the support. However, I do have a few questions and comments. I have two points: the approach to risks and the amount of lower regulation. I'll start with the risks. There are two conflicting interests involved. On the one hand, we want to rule out the risk as much as possible by allowing DNB and AFM to monitor as carefully as possible and, as a government, to draw responsibility towards us. On the other hand, the question is whether we accept the risks that a credit union can bring and we leave it to entrepreneurs themselves, who are above average used to dealing with risks. In that case, do we dare to accept that something goes wrong? In short, are we committed to supervision and regulation or are entrepreneurs given the opportunity to act on their own account and at risk? I have to think about the discussion that took place a few years ago about the AFM's wild west sign. Mr Irrgang has brought that up. As legislator and supervisor, we have said in a number of products: beware, this product is not subject to supervision. It's a wild west sign, huh? Such choices are also made in the present law: up to 10 million we release, but above that demands are made. Members of the credit union do not claim state aid if it goes wrong, they do not pose a threat to the financial stability of the Netherlands and credit unions do not involve consumers. That's a completely different situation from a bank. Then the question to the initiators is: on what grounds can a 10% solvency requirement be justified, since that requirement is even lower for system banks? From the point of view of concentration risks, it is proposed to limit the amount that may be lent per entrepreneur to 2,5% of total loans from the credit union. I can imagine, but that can mean, for example, that a successful entrepreneur with a good return on his loan cannot get a new loan from the credit union to grow. How do the initiators look at this? Mrs De Vries and Mr Van Dijck also said that there is still a great deal of work to be done. It concerns a large amount of lower solvency regulation, the minimum own funds to be held by borrowers, limits on how much to lend, the limit on recoverable funds that a small credit union may attract and the maximum number of members that a credit union may have. All this needs to be put into practice later on at AMvB or at ministerial level. The Council of State points out in its opinion that delegation to the Minister should be limited to rules of an administrative nature or to the elaboration of the details of the arrangement. That is not the case here. The European Commission, which has to approve the exception to credit unions, has said that it can only take a position if there is a specific request for that exception on the basis of an adopted law and concrete, clearly completed regulation. So my specific question to the initiators is: how do we proceed? What is the time plan and how is it going to be filled in? Finally, I would like to put a number of questions to the consultant. He grabs a pen and writes along. How does he look at the EUR 10 million exemption for small credit unions, liquidity and solvency requirements, and in particular the risk of concentration? This is it, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. I wish the initiators every success in the follow-up steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-9.u5	Mr. Chairman. Some themes are so relevant and therefore so beautiful for a politician that, when a colleague takes an initiative, agitates a case, makes a nice (lawful) proposal, you think as a Member of Parliament: I would have liked to have done the same. For many years, the Chamber has been debating the need to make business finance better and more accessible. I would therefore like to congratulate Mrs Mulder and Mr Nijboer on their initiative. I want to thank them, too. It is a nice theme to put forward an own-initiative paper. My compliments on that. The SP is enthusiastic about the intention of these two colleagues to create a legal framework for credit unions. We welcome that. The lack of credit to entrepreneurs has been a thorn in our eye for years. My own own own initiative paper A new National Investment Bank was also an attempt to get things moving. Moreover, at the time the Labour Party reacted mainly with the comment: we believe that entrepreneurs should have more equity and not more debt. I would therefore like to hear from both proposers how their initiative proposal will contribute to increasing the equity of companies. The SP has also always supported the expansion of, for example, the SME, the growth facilities. We have asked the Finance and Economic Ministers many times to try to ensure that the lending market functions better. Some steps we would have liked to see have not been taken, others have. There is still much to be desired in relation to the granting of loans to companies, and that is a pity. Let me give you a simple example. If a renowned and well-run bakery that has a year in, year out of good grades, applies to the bank for a loan to buy a new oven, then it gets zero on the reekest, while an oven is quite essential when you run a bakery. That is difficult to understand, but it is the reality we are talking about today. I think Mrs Mulder was present at the work visit where we were told. I believe that credit unions can indeed play an important role in this imperfect market. I therefore welcome the initiative from the Chamber. However, I have quite a few critical questions. The SP wants this to be a great success and is cautious for that reason. In my view, colleagues from both the PVV and the VVD have said that there is still a lot to be done in lower regulation. I agree with the question put by Mr Koolmees: how are we going to proceed? If the House agrees to the proposal, the future of this fine initiative is still quite uncertain. I don't know what I'm saying "yes" to yet. After all, the Minister for Finance still has a number of things to decide. The explanatory statement states that an equity capital of half a million is envisaged. In an overview, which I believe has been included in the memo following the report at the request of the PVV, an amount of 1 million is mentioned. In short, there is quite a difference here and there. A second critical question is a very important one for me. The initiators say that the consultation round has largely produced positive comments. I would like to know what that positive comment from, for example, AFM and DNB meant. Maybe I take a slightly different tone from colleagues who spoke earlier today, but I would also like to know why the initiators, in my view, have done rather little with the criticism of DNB and AFM, for example as regards the boundaries. AFM proposes to apply an exemption of 2.5 million instead of 10 million, and to rely on 150 people instead of 25,000. The initiators call this unbridgeable and inappropriate to the idea that they have about it. Why isn't much of a criticism done? I understand the call not to limit it too much and to give the proposal room for manoeuvre. I also understand very well that you shouldn't overdo it if you want to bloom these kind of flowers. At the same time, they are the two supervisors in the financial market, and I'm sure they're not saying it for nothing. I would therefore like to know why the initiators have ignored the criticism. Very often it is called prudential supervision. That makes sense in itself. I take it as customization that's being asked for. How do the proposers look at the capacity of those who have to exercise prudential supervision? Doesn't it mean, in their view, that a supervisor will spend a lot of time with it? I hope that there will be a lot of credit unions, because that seems very necessary. They are organised regionally or sectorally, or perhaps side by side. When I hear the shouts of the entrepreneurs, it is necessary. However, it means a lot of extra work for the supervisors. How do the initiators look at this, especially when there is a need for customisation? That makes it even more complicated. I think Mr Koolmees spoke most clearly about letting go. He was wondering if we could trust the market to regulate it itself. I would like a response from the authors to the following. Of course, you're looking at how dangerous a particular construction could be for a system. When it comes to a rather limited amount of credit that does not endanger a sector or a system, I understand very well that as a government we do not need to be on top of it. Then we can rely on less rigorous supervision and some broader rules that it will be all right. At the same time, I do not think that you should get rid of it too easily by saying "they do not target the public, they focus on entrepreneurs; they are less vulnerable', which gives the impression that there could be no risk. Of course, there are indeed: a wild-west pot even though that does not endanger the system. How are we going to make it clear to entrepreneurs, whether they are getting in as those who borrow money or as those who offer money, that there are few guarantees compared to other financial products in the regular banking world?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-9.u6	Mr. Chairman. We also congratulate the initiators, Mrs Mulder and Mr Nijboer, the dynamic duo Henk and Agnes. I am pleased that Mr Nijboer has joined later and wishes to fully support the SME entrepreneurs. In recent years I have seen that Mr Nijboer has driven a bit from the banks, and also a bit from the Ministry. A lot of entrepreneurs thought he was a bit technocratic and bureaucratic, and I must also criticize, Mr Nijboer, that's part of it, but I saw that Mr Vos compensated a bit within the Labour Party. There was a little balance with that. We're here to talk about the credit unions. As a former entrepreneur, I am very concerned about this subject. SMEs are the driving force behind the economy. And what do the banks do? They do not facilitate SMEs well. No funding means no jobs, no internships, no growth. That is why I welcome the fact that credit unions are being given a wide range of jobs. Where banks are failing, credit unions can be the beginning of a solution. However, I would like to make a few comments about credit unions. I'll come back to that later in my story. I will also make a creative suggestion later to increase the effectiveness of the credit unions. We all know that lending to SMEs in the Netherlands has been saddened. A study by the Nederlandsche Bank shows that 45% of SME credit applications in the Netherlands are unfortunately rejected. This is 14% in Germany and 18% in France. Only Greece scores worse in Europe. Mr Vos talked about this a lot. What's wrong with the Dutch banks? This is first and foremost the highly concentrated banking market. In the Netherlands, we have less than a handful of large banks that dominate the entire market. These banks are becoming more and more cold companies and, in our opinion, are increasingly distanced from the SME entrepreneur. Where they used to have a branch in almost every village you had the church, the Rabobank and a café in every village so they now lift the branches for cost reasons. Loans were previously provided by local bankers on the basis of knowledge and trust. Nowadays, local branches have disappeared and loans are assessed on the basis of records at headquarters rather than on the basis of the person. Scientific research shows that this is at the expense of lending to SMEs. In fact, this development shows in a nutshell the ever-increasing anonymization and dehumanization of our society. Banks have become profit machines, denying their core tasks and avoiding their social responsibility. Only in order to make a higher profit is: first the profit than the morale. The cabinet has a wonderful SME funding action plan, to which it has added a wonderful additional action plan. These plans are full of good measures, but they are probably a drop in the ocean. At the heart of the problem is the depraved, oligarchic structure of the Dutch banking sector. We need to think together about how we can do something about that. Indeed, if 45% of all SME credit applications are rejected in the Netherlands, then I do not count all those applications that are not submitted, because entrepreneurs already think they are rejected in advance, because then the percentage is even higher because it is justified to use rough guns to tackle this problem. No symptom control, but detect and cut away the growth in the Dutch banking sector. This is something for future debates. Against this background, I come back to the credit unions. These too are a drop on the glowing album, but a nice alternative. If I understand correctly, Mrs Mulder in NRC Handelsblad said that she is counting on an increase of up to 50 credit unions, which will jointly finance SMEs for EUR 500 million. That is 0.5% of the EUR 100 billion that is now available to 550,000 small SMEs. We want to increase the effectiveness of credit unions. We propose to leverage credit unions by encouraging banks to co-finance as much as possible. For example, this could be two-fold: if a credit union lends a company €100,000, the bank will add €200,000. The bank then has no work to do, because it is the credit union that assesses and supervises the credit application. In this way, the EUR 500 million from Mrs Mulder and Mr Nijboer will be EUR 1.5 billion in one blow. And if the banks have a taste for it, it can be changed to a factor of five. Then we have 3 billion in one go with Mrs Mulder and Mr Nijboer. Why am I saying this? If the regional development companies, such as LIOF in Limburg, co-finance, then banks can operate cost-effectively and they get the guts and the courage to do the same. If a regional development company believes and invests in a company, so does the bank. We should not only try to solve this problem with credit unions, because with EUR 500 million, we are not going to make it. More money is needed to help SMEs. The banks must be encouraged to do so. I see the minister is playing with his phone. Maybe he can take this with him in his phone records. I hear him saying those notes are about this. Very good. I come to our comments. We believe we understand that credit unions are non-profit-making clubs. That's a beautiful and noble ambition. However, will that be the case in practice? That is why I have a few questions for the initiators. Are excesses or scandals about credit unions known from experience abroad? Is there any issue of usury interest rates or unreasonable instalments for borrowers in credit unions? Can the initiators say anything about the risk of impairment? What do they see as the main dangers and disadvantages of credit unions? I'm closing up. Salute to Mrs Mulder and Mr Nijboer. They show that bottom-up is politically possible: not only do top-down measures push through, that's a bit technocratic, but bottom-up work. We will always support and lovingly embrace bottom-up initiatives. We hope that more colleagues will come forward with initiatives. We of Thought will at least do that. That will only improve democracy. Dare to think differently. Dare to show initiative.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-9.u7	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to thank colleagues and the people who helped them for the great work they have put into this initiative proposal. This proposal is made in exceptional times, because while banks and public authorities can borrow for about free, small businesses soon have to pay 8% or even more for a simple ongoing credit. And they are lucky, because for many, far too many, small businesses, the window remains closed. In other words, we live in a time when interest rates are historically low and the interest margins that banks calculate are historically high. That is why any initiative to improve access to credit is more than welcome. Credit unions can help small businesses to become less dependent on banks. The PvdA therefore supports this initiative. However, I still have a few questions and comments, partly in response to the opinion of the Council of State. The Council of State considers that the need for this legislative proposal has not been convincingly demonstrated. It would not be clear what problem credit unions could solve that banks could not solve themselves as well or better themselves. I do not share this criticism from the Council of State. The Council of State too easily ignores the fact that there is simply no sufficient competition between banks at this time. More fundamentally, small loans for banks will soon be very effective. As a result, small loans are not attractive to banks or credit costs are soon too high for small businesses if the banks pass on all the costs. This problem is in fact a problem of a failing market. It's been playing for decades. There have been many initiatives that have tried to solve this problem, but they have never succeeded. Creditors can be an answer to this, because with them there are entrepreneurs in the picture who act as an unpaid coach as well as as a lender. That's an outcome in these times. In short, credit unions, unlike the Council of State, can indeed contribute to solving a social problem. In the end, it's good for the banks too. After all, if credit unions for small businesses remove the threshold to grow into medium-sized or even large companies, then sooner or later the banks will only benefit. It is therefore right that the initiators in the further report to this bill have highlighted this flywheel function of credit unions. On some points, however, the criticism of the Council of State does not go far enough. First of all, this applies to the risk of concentration. The members/entrepreneurs of credit unions will often work in the same sector in practice. This means that credit unions are more sensitive to economic downturns than banks, with risks spread across several sectors. As a consequence, the liquidity risk lies. Credit unions are not real banks. They therefore do not have access to the emergency points of the central bank. This may lead to problems in situations where doubts arise as to the financial soundness of credit unions. Then it may happen that lenders all run to the exit by not extending their deposits. My question to the initiators is how they look at these risks. Is it not a good idea to try something like a joint safety net under the credit unions, a bit similar to the deposit guarantee scheme with banks? I'd like to get a reflection from the initiators at this point. Another, and rightly so, criticism of the Council of State concerns the provision of information on the risks posed by lenders. It seems to me that the initiators are getting away with this all too easily. They say that all this information is not necessary, because it is not about unsuspecting consumers but about professional entrepreneurs. The thesis is: they know what they're doing with their money. I'm not so sure about that. I have to think about the debacle with the bank of Dirk Scheringa. Then we also saw a lot of poorly informed entrepreneurs. We saw shopkeepers, garage owners and all kinds of small entrepreneurs who had invested their entire pension fund in subordinated deposits at Dirk Scheringa. They were out of every guarantee and lost everything. My question to the initiators and to the advisory minister is: can the information about the risks that money-giving entrepreneurs run not get a little more hands and feet? Isn't it better arranged? I would also like to hear suggestions on how that could be done. The credit unions bill is a good initiative. It is a good thing that there are alternatives to the expensive bank credit. It is now important that credit unions get a flying start. In this context, I have a final question about the costs of starting a credit union. I understand that this could soon amount to between €50,000 and €100,000. That is a very big bite from the reserves. Do the initiators and the Minister agree with me that it would be a good idea to grant start-up credit unions a start-up fee? What amount of money would you have to think of? Can this be covered by one of the many instruments at Economic Affairs for supporting small and medium-sized enterprises?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-9.u8	Mr. Chairman. This plenary discussion of the credit union bill is a milestone. In November 2011, former member of the Chamber, Ad Koppejan, placed the subject first on the agenda, by a motion and an amendment. Then my former colleague Van Hijum wrote an initiative paper about it together with Agnes Mulder. My compliments to the proposers, Henk Nijboer and Agnes Mulder, for filing the bill. That's a lot of work for a MP, with less staff. The staff is in the back of the room, but the Minister of Finance cannot lose his entire staff in box K if he ever wanted to, even though I haven't noticed it from the staff I share with Mrs Mulder. So they've been able to hide it well. It is an important legislative proposal, and I would like to join my colleagues in doing so. There is a real problem with lending in the Netherlands. We are not the worst of Europe, indeed. We are a little ahead of Greece, but my fellow Members have just made no festive remarks. In the Netherlands, we are incredibly dependent on banking credit, and the banking credit for SMEs is at present very tight, at least according to the SMEs. Sometimes we get a different assessment from banks, but there are so many SMEs who have given us openness of books that we are dealing with a very real problem here. This is not the only thing that needs to be done. Of course, we also have the problem that SMEs in the Netherlands have relatively little equity. That too will have to be addressed. The European Commission is, I believe, coming up with a proposal shortly to facilitate access for SMEs to capital markets and equity markets. My group therefore sees this bill as a whole of greater diversification in the way companies are financed. This legislative proposal plays an important role in this respect. I'd done a lot of questions. I can ask all these questions, but I think my colleagues have already asked them. So I'm gonna go a little further. I agree with the question whether the limit on the amount lent to an entrepreneur is not too low. I also agree with the question on the provision of information. Is it not good to inform the lenders? After all, when something goes wrong in this kind of atmosphere, people immediately report to the House of Representatives. Can the initiators, together with the Minister, make an attempt to indicate how they see the lower regulation if the bill is adopted? For there is indeed quite some delegation. I have a specific question for the Minister about the EUR 10 million limit. On the one hand, there are the credit unions and the industry, who believe that the border can be raised, and on the other hand the supervisor, who prefers to see the border lower. Can the Minister indicate what he's doing with that border when it's in the law, so we know about what's going on? I agree with Mrs De Vries' question, although I do not want to ask whether everything can be done without a licence. I believe that, at some point in time, there is indeed a role to be played by licensing. However, I wonder whether the supervisory costs of €20,000 for a single credit union are not on the high side and whether there is any possibility of containing these costs. My group looks forward to the answer and also likes to see a colleague of the CDA in box K.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-9.u9	This brings to an end the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-9.u10	At some point, the initiators will signal that this bill should be put back on the agenda for further consideration.
