ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u1	I welcome the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation and the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs. The first speaker in this 30-member debate is Mrs Ouwehand on behalf of the Animal Party. There is three minutes of speaking time available for each group. I propose that the Members of Parliament intervene twice in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u2	Mr. Chairman. I'd like to take you to the country of Argentina. If you live there, you have a very good chance of living next door to a soy field. That is not just a field, but a field that stretches as far as the eye can see. The field is next to a small village where children play. There's an airplane coming in, and it's coming down, and that plane's spraying its toxic cargo over that field: I'm talking about Roundup, which is made up of pebble, endosulfan or paraquat or a cocktail of these heavy pesticides. The poison ends up not only on the soy, but also on the vegetable gardens of the people who live there and on the school square where the children play. Is it a coincidence that so many children are born severely handicapped in such a village? You would say: these are criminal practices, but unfortunately this is a standard practice that is made possible by Monsanto, the company that genetically manipulated soya so that it is resistant to the toxic substances that are sprayed on it. By doing so, the production of soya is inextricably linked to the use of large quantities of highly harmful agricultural poison. A logical question seems to be: why are no rules laid down to combat such practices? Why does an agricultural poison that makes children sick and which the World Health Organisation believes is probably even carcinogenic not be banned? Well, that's because companies like Monsanto find a willing ear with policy makers and politicians. There are many sad illustrations of that. Early this month, emails leaked from Monsanto's head office showing that the company pays scientists heavily to write pro-gentech articles. The company has been suing Argentina on several occasions because that country rightly does not want to recognise Monsanto's claimed ownership of soya. UN experts accuse the chemical and pesticide industries of deliberately confusing and misleading politicians and bureaucrats about the dangers of hormone-distorting chemicals. It therefore uses tactics similar to those used by the tobacco industry for years to raise scientific doubts and thus avoid regulation. Now there's good news. The Secretary of State for Economic Affairs acknowledges the problems involved in the large-scale cultivation of these gene-tech crops. Less than two weeks ago, she said that we have to face the fact that there are some very great dangers lurking. Dependence on pesticides such as heavy pesticides in developing countries is one of them; a second danger lies in the combination with ownership, which comes in particular from an ever smaller number of multinationals. If these two factors are mixed, there is an explosive cocktail. The bad news is that the Foreign Trade Minister is helping to make cultivation possible through the Sustainable Trade Initiative, which finances this way of producing soya with money from the Development Cooperation budget. The so-called round table for sustainable soy is not sustainable. The only party that gets rich is Monsanto. So the Animal Party says: we really can spend our taxpayers' money better. It is also worrying that the Minister for Foreign Trade is cooperating in increasing the influence of companies such as Monsanto, through its commitment to TTIP. The Party for Animals wants the cabinet to be clear. If the Secretary of State says that we should not want this crop, we want the Cabinet to stop funding this RTRS and stop negotiating TTIP.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u3	Mr. Chairman. One way or another, we always have to deal with about the same parties or the same very small selection of parties. That goes from soy that we import for our feed based on soy plantations with genetically engineered soy with all the misery that is caused by it in South America to the whole story about the plant variety right that we have discussed extensively and which is behind again the same party. Luckily recently the decision was made that municipalities should no longer use Roundup on hardening, which means that at least half of our municipalities that are still poisoning hardening should no longer do so, it was Monsanto who responded in the press with the statement: this is emotional politics. That's the only thing she's right about. In my opinion, the emotion is pressing for me to try to sketch it out, and I shall try to describe how it is possible in a civilised world that we should gradually allow certain companies to gain so much power that they can take farmers in the pants through tying, that they can take on states through hordes of lawyers and that they do not have to assume any responsibility for people's environment and health on a purely profit basis. How is it possible? That emotion is high in my mind, and that is actually the only message I want to get out of this debate. This has to end. The power of these kinds of companies must simply be broken. We are government and legislators, national and European, and by means of agreements, also globally. Let's work together to make this stop.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u4	Mr. Chairman. The ZEMBLA documentary The Gen-tech lobby was touching. The Argentine doctor Verzeñassi of the Universidad Nacional de Rosario notes that in villages where venom is sprayed on gene-tech crops significantly more cancer occurs. A special health centre for children with birth defects has been established in the Roundup region. An increased number of birth defects have been observed since the turn of the century. There followed a series of investigations that were constantly being fought furiously by the genetic engineering industry. A link to blood cancer was found. In March of this year, the World Health Organisation classed Roundup as probably carcinogenic. Does the Secretary of State intend to expose the people to this? Isn't it strange that a substance, which is so much disturbing to say about, is still being used? In the Netherlands it is used even on playgrounds, sports fields and also on grain. Will the Secretary of State investigate how much Roundup is in Dutch bread? Why is the precautionary principle not applied, as should have happened in retrospect in the case of asbestos, Q fever and DDT? The European Environment Agency EEE wrote a report: Late lessons from early warnings. When does the government want to intervene? Should this happen at early warnings, late warnings or later? Does the government want to recognise and propose the precautionary principle, to explore how this can be embedded in European admission policy? What can we do to Argentina? I would like to ask the Foreign Trade Minister. It is estimated that 30,000 lobbyists are on the move in Brussels. This is almost as much as the number of officials. Some speak of Europe as a lobbyary. The decision-making process is far from the citizen. They are opaque processes that the industry has a lot of influence on. Let us ensure that European democracy honours the title of lobbyracy. Let us carefully exclude the influence of large money from democratic decision-making processes. Let us ensure strong democratic institutions where the weeds of the gentech lobby are not given the power and policy-making power. A very specific point is the functioning of EFSA. This body, which decides on the authorisation of genetic and agricultural poison, should be above all doubt, but one after the other conflicts of interest occur. According to Testbiotech, the new experts in the EFSA genetech panel are linked to the interested genetech industry. I would like to hear a response to the adopted Chamber Motion 27428, No. 191 asking the Authority to address and prohibit the conflict of interest. Last but not least, I am pleased that it is the government's commitment that gentech is not part of the TTIP negotiations, but is this also the US's commitment? Isn't it really being discussed? The negotiations are secret. What guarantee can the Secretary of State or the Minister give that gentech will not be discussed? Is this also about cisgenesis and contamination of crops with genetic engineering? Corporate Europe Observatory has e-mails showing that this is being discussed. How about this? Finally. The TTIP trade agreement is a major threat to democracy. Do the rulers, like me, find it unacceptable that TTIP arbitration has binding influence and can even prevent or influence democratic laws and rules? I invite the rulers to the demonstration on 10 October against TTIP.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u5	Thank you very much, Mr Van Gerven. Your time is more than up. You still have a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u6	I want...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u7	Your time is more than up. I gave you the opportunity to finish your last paragraph. Time's up. This is a 30-member debate. You have had more than three minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u8	I would ask you to give this annex to the directors and the Chamber. It is an article of 8 June 2015 from the website www.testbiotech.org, entitled "Forward to the past'.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u9	You are asking for this article to be added to the Acts. We will ensure that it is copied and distributed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u10	Mr. Chairman. This debate is not only about a television broadcast, but also about the future of our planet and our food, about the open vision needed to continue to reap the benefits of progress, about the hope of a better world, based on technological breakthroughs. Fear is often a bad counselor. The argument put forward by a number of parties that biotechnology or genetic modification should be rejected because its effects are not yet fully known in the future does not convince my group. If our ancestors had just as opposed to the discovery of electricity, penicillin or steam locomotive, as many parties in the Chamber are now reacting to biotechnology and genetic modification, I sincerely wonder what turn history had taken and where we had now been. The VVD is positive about the future. We look at opportunities and opportunities. As far as we are concerned, biotechnology is essential if we are to continue to feed the nine billion mouths on this globe by 2050. Innovation and progress are urgently needed throughout the food chain. It is also very important that crops and seeds do not come into the hands of too few farms. We have had this debate before. Some parties in this Chamber consider biotechnology and genetic modification to be worrying developments. To be honest, my group is concerned about the lobby against progress in the food chain. This anti-progress lobby wrongly throws a number of things into one heap. They rightly say that genetic modification of crops to make it exclusively resistant to a pesticide has been the wrong first step. We think so too, but in order to completely write off all the possibilities that genetic modification offers now, the child with the bath water is really throwing away.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u11	I assume that the speaker from the VVD saw the broadcast of Zembla, in which a cynical minister from Argentina says that that soy has produced some EUR 85 billion or dollars from my mind. That kids have fallen victim to that, so be it. What does the VVD think of this statement by the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u12	I believe that we should always look very carefully with each other and with the help of independent scientists on how resources can be used. If maximum limits are set and they are violated, the perpetrators must be dealt with.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u13	You are not giving a full and correct answer. I understand that, because the VVD is the party with apparently the dollar signs in its eyes in this case. Isn't it obvious to apply the precautionary principle and make a pass when, for example, Roundup... is used while there is increasing evidence that it is harmful to public health? Is it not essential, then, that we opt for a different way of progress and not use this risky method?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u14	I have just indicated to the colleague of the Socialist Party that I would like an independent party, including EFSA, to see what safe uses are of, among other things, arthropods. If this has been established in a democratic manner, these are the standards that can be applied and those who violate these standards within the Netherlands and Europe must be addressed. Forgive me, but I don't know the customs and standards in Argentina. With regard to Mr Van Gerven's very misguided remark about the dollar signs in the eyes of VVD's, I would ask Mr Van Gerven to come up with the evidence or to take that back.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u15	It is of course nice to try to conduct a debate here in principle for or against genetic modification, but this debate is really only interesting if you look at what is actually happening and actually happened over the last ten years. Does Mr De Love agree with me that the development of Roundup-resistant maize and soya will not take us any further, bring farmers from the rain into the drip, create dependencies and bring together power concentrations in companies like Monsanto? If we were to agree on this, I think that would be a sufficient basis to limit these aspects in any case. Does Mr. Love agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u16	Let me begin by saying that I am surprised that Mr Grashoff says that he wants to make it a debate in principle. He blames me for this haste, while the Grashoff himself has spoken quite absolutely on this subject. Apart from that, I find it very undesirable that genetic modification has been applied one of the first times to make a crop resistant to a plant protection product. This has created an evil smell around genetic modification which, in my opinion, is not justified, because genetic modification can also do a lot of good things. I am familiar with reports that say that more plant protection products are used by the Roundup variants in the world. I am also familiar with the reports that the use of pesticides and plant protection products has been reduced by this combination and that the yields per hectare, including in poor countries, have increased for farmers. I am not yet convinced that it is as absolute as Mr Grashoff says.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u17	In so far as I am pleased with Mr De Love's reply, we will at least have a debate on real matters and on real things. I would also like to have the debate of principle with him, but at a different time and in a different context. What matters now is that companies acquire power and become almost monopolists. If I wanted to describe the VVD in a positive way, it would be a party that would like to maintain competition and the free market. This concentration of power is therefore not correct and leads to a reduction in the number of seeds that exist in the world and a huge increase in its costs. Farmers are not helped by this, but get caught up in the rain or worse. Does Mr. Love agree with that? Does he think that we should limit this, too, and that it is therefore necessary to ensure that the concentration of power is abolished or, in any case, severely reduced?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u18	In general, I believe that there should be no monopoly in such markets. However, I would point out that the fact that someone has taken a dominant position on their own does not mean that this is automatically bad. It is a question of whether that position is being abused in a particular market. In any case, we in Europe have agreed fairly clear rules in competition law and competition law. My impression is that they are being properly applied to the European market. I do not dare to say whether this is the case on other continents. Let us conclude that there is such a concentration in a number of crops that we would not have allowed it to go as far as we had known when it developed. Mr. Chairman. Biotechnology, and therefore genetic modification, can mean positive things for the world. It can make crops resistant to diseases and thus prevent crops from being lost. Biotechnology can make a crop resistant to drought, heat, salty soil or an abundance of salty water. Biotechnology and genetic modification can add essential nutrients to existing foods, such as rice or fruit and vegetables. This will prevent diseases and unnecessary deaths in hundreds of thousands to millions of people. As far as we are concerned, biotechnology, and hence genetic modification, is essential in the food mix towards 2050.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u19	Mr. De Love knows that he can wake me up anytime, anytime, for a fundamental debate on genetech. But we're not going to do that today; I was already awake. The debate today is about Mr De Love saying: genetically manipulating crops to make them resistant to certain forms of agricultural poison is not so good. I am pleased that Mr De Love also acknowledges this, with the Secretary of State, who also said this a few weeks ago in a general consultation. That is what this debate is about. It is about genetically engineered soya that is produced far from our bed, but it is on our plate, because that soy is imported for our pig sector. Is the VVD prepared to act on that? We agree that this is very annoying. I know the VVD as a party that is not very enthusiastic about development cooperation and about spending Dutch tax money if you have doubts about its effectiveness. The Minister for Foreign Trade supports the round table for so-called sustainable soya. We have exactly a problem with that genetically engineered soy that has so much poison on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u20	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u21	My question is whether the VVD is prepared to support the Party's plea for the Animals to at least stop funding until we have tough sustainability criteria, so that we no longer support the problem of poison soya with Dutch tax money?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u22	Mrs Ouwehand has misunderstood my words; let me put it nicely. The VVD is not against genetically modified soya. I'd like that to be clear first. I have indicated that I think it is very undesirable that the genetic modification of crops has begun in order to make them resistant to plant protection products. I did not say that I do not like making crops resistant to plant protection products. That has to be clear. So I cannot go along with Mrs Ouwehand's plea to say that we will stop funding for a sustainable table for genetically modified soya.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u23	A brief second question, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u24	Then I wonder if the VVD is at least willing to acknowledge that there are major health problems for the people living near those areas, because there is so much poison going on to that genetically engineered soy? Is it not a question of whether we should spend Dutch tax money from the development cooperation budget on making the chain more sustainable that does not address the problem of poison use?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u25	As I indicated, scientists and governments in Europe and the Netherlands set standards for the safe use of certain resources. I have no reason to doubt that this is happening properly in Europe and the Netherlands. I have already indicated that I am not fully aware of the relevant legislation in Argentina. I have heard Mrs Ouwehand put a question to the Minister for Development Cooperation in her first term and I look forward to the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u26	Mr. Chairman. Through a smart lobby, genetech companies like Monsanto try to dominate the food chain. This makes food a toy of these big companies, who make their money from the patents on the products, coupled with the poison against which the plant is made resistant. The Labour Party strongly opposes the monopolisation of the food chain and sees no public interest in tying up crops and poisons. Those are bad practices. We have looked at what we can do from the Netherlands. It is a good thing that the Secretary of State addresses this type of practice in Brussels, but we must also look at what we can do here. I make two suggestions for that. We now have a labelling obligation for genetically modified products in the food chain. The Labour Party would like it to be extended to the input. We would like the packaging of meat to indicate whether or not the animal has been fed with genetically modified food. I say more 'al' than 'not', because only organic animals are not fed with genetically modified feed, but the rest of the chain is. A label would increase consumer choice and create a market for common food, for non-organic meat from animals fed gene-free. Will the cabinet see how it can meet this wish? Consumers' freedom of choice is being extended and consumers are being informed fairly. This increases the market for gene-free soy, as there are probably people who prefer to eat meat from animals that have eaten gene-free food, for whatever reason. We also see a role for the Foreign Trade Minister. With its programme IDH (Initiative Sustainable Trade), the Round Table on Responsible Soy (RTRS) is funded, a round table on sustainable soya. I'm sure the Minister is impatient with us. That process really needs to be speeded up. Wouldn't it be interesting to boost the gene-free soy in that process in addition to the common soy? If there is anything we can do to break the monopoly's market power slightly, then by encouraging another market, a new market, a gene-tech-free market. With that, you can tie things up, and I know this minister well enough to know that that's what she wants to do. The debate on the power of gene companies cannot be separated from the discussion on TTIP. Minister Ploumen has stated publicly on several occasions that the Netherlands is opposed to updating standards and standards on food safety and environmental safety. The same applies to working conditions. Unfortunately, negotiations are largely conducted behind closed doors and this makes it difficult to discuss the relevance of this discussion. For the time being, the Labour Party is cautiously hopeful of a responsible and innovative trade agreement, provided that the standards are not adjusted downwards and that the power of the companies will be restrained. How does the Minister see this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u27	I hear the Labour Party saying hopeful words about the Round Table on Responsible Soy. I think that's where the bottleneck is tonight. The Secretary of State for Economic Affairs recently said about this soy, for example, that these heavy pesticides are really very annoying. That round table does not tackle that problem, although we are spending money on it, even from the development cooperation pot. Does the Labour Party not agree with the Animal Party that we should at least put a stand-still on the financing of that round table, until we also see that poison use addressed in it? Otherwise, it's nothing but a greenwash, is it? You call something sustainable, while it is not demonstrable, not even in the words of the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u28	What is always so nice about Mrs Ouwehand, President, is that, when her question is up, she always has a piece of text left. Mr Van Gerven does that sometimes. That's always a lot of fun. About the round table: I asked the minister if she would like to see if you should just make a gene-free platform. Then you have less of that problem, although of course you have other problems with plant protection. Geno-free does not necessarily have to be protection-free. I think it would be a good idea to broaden that, with Mrs Ouwehand. Whether there should be a stop to funding right now, I do not know, but I would like to hear the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u29	I appreciate Mrs Dikkers' proposal and am very interested in the Minister's response to it. I repeat my plea. That round table is not undisputed, and then I say it very carefully. There's a lot of criticism about that. It's about the massive use of poison that makes children sick. That is not addressed in the so-called sustainability.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u30	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u31	The least we could do is say, "We'll keep our dimes with us for a while." Then we won't even abolish that round table, but we just won't support it until the sustainability guarantees that the round table offers us are so that we can live with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u32	Do you agree, Mrs. Dikkers?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u33	I don't think I agree with that. We would very much like the process to change. If you give an oil tanker a few degrees of change of course, a lot is already happening. I fully understand the Party's plea for animals and I would very much like to see the world looking like this today, but Mrs Ouwehand also knows that it is not and that we have a lot of mouths to feed. Such processes take a long time and we would very much like to use that process carefully, so no support for the time being.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u34	This brings to an end the first term of office. The rulers would like to have a word with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u35	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the members of the committee for the questions and comments that have been put in great detail here and there. That's what this subject deserves. In the Committee on Foreign Trade and Development, we have spoken a number of times about TTIP. We will continue to do so, because the negotiations are an important subject. A number of issues that are relevant to the committee where I am guest tonight are also associated with TTIP. I'll be happy to address some concerns and hopefully take them away as well. I should also like to point out in this committee that the Cabinet and the European Commission have drawn a number of red lines in relation to the standards and negotiations on TTIP. The degradation of our social standards, our environmental standards and our food safety is not acceptable. We have also discussed this on a number of occasions in committee. It was sealed by this Chamber by two motions, a motion by Jasper van Dijk and a motion by Jesse Klaver. There must therefore be no misunderstanding about this. How does this now relate to concerns surrounding GMOs? We have always been very strict and clear in that regard. We support the European Commission's view that we are fully committed to the EU's risk assessment of GMO authorisation in the EU. TTIP's not gonna change that. Several questions have been asked on the subject of soya. How do sustainable soya, genetically modified soya and gene-free soya relate to each other? How did they get together in the Round Table on Responsible Soy? Unlike Mrs Ouwehand, I think that the round table has an important role and function. It is a global cooperation between companies, banks and civil society organisations. It is a good forum to discuss common interests and bring the different interests together. They want to achieve responsible soya production. I believe that Mrs Ouwehand has nothing against that either. Until that T-junction, I believe we'll find each other. Where our paths may be somewhat different, Mrs Ouwehand calls on me to speak with that round table and those parties only about gene-free soy. That table is precisely and explicitly about gene-free as well as genetically modified soya, because that is also the reality. I do not think that we need to repeat the debate that has been held several times in the committee of my colleague, Mr Dijksma. For me, it is important to point out that we want to achieve as comprehensive an approach as possible in this round table. We want to take steps with all these parties to achieve sustainable soya. It is also an excellent platform to address a number of concerns. I say to Mrs Ouwehand, but certainly also to Mrs Dikkers, that I will make the next round table discussion very clear about the problems that have been raised here. Then I would very much like to hear from the various parties how they view it. It seems to me that we are going to push things in the right direction. I would be sorry if we opted for more radical options, because this would call into question the progress and the steps that have been taken in the round table. I sincerely believe that this would not benefit anyone at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u36	I have not yet said that I will allow two more interruptions to all the spokesmen in this period. Mrs Ouwehand wants to interrupt this period for the first time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u37	It seems like the Foreign Trade Minister is making a movement here, but she has to forgive me for being a little sceptical about it. The criticism of that round table is not new. It is not new that there are major dangers to the use of RoundUp for the health of the people there. The round table doesn't address that. I honestly do not find it very credible if the Foreign Trade Minister needs a debate in the Chamber to say: oh, I will put those concerns down there and then we will make progress. I ask her to take these concerns seriously and at least to freeze the financial support for that round table until that consultation meets the criteria that we can support. It seems to me that we should agree that we do not give money to trade that we know is putting children's health in South America at great risk. The fact that it is is not new. It's just come to us one more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u38	It might be good to emphasise that I am not making commitments lightly. We are not here to debate an ordinary Tuesday evening because we do not think the subject is important, but precisely because we think it is important. I can imagine that my commitment is not entirely in line with Mrs Ouwehand's wishes. However, I believe that dialogue is still the best way to put problems on the table and discuss them. Mrs Ouwehand believes that this might have happened sooner or should have happened in a different way. It's possible. However, I believe that the dialogue and cooperation that has been created with this round table lends itself to putting this issue on the table again. I do so with the support of the Chamber, because I see Mrs Dikkers at the interrupting microphone at the moment. To be honest, that seems to me to be a better and, above all, a more effective approach. That is what I am committed to, and I believe that Mrs Ouwehand's commitment is aimed at in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u39	Okay, then let's go along the route the Secretary of State proposes the Chamber here. It seems to me that she should say what her efforts should lead to. My proposal is that we stop funding until the sustainability criteria are so strict that we can call that soy really sustainable. That is not the case now. Where does the Minister intend to come up with her initiative to make it negotiable at the round table? I believe that we should then mention a moment when we either decide that funding is really no longer justified or decide that progress has been made. In the latter case, the Minister would have had her way and her route would have proved successful. That would be nice, too. However, I believe that we should agree on a point where we then judge with each other as to whether it has helped or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u40	In any case, I think that the instrument of stopping funding is a bad signal. After all, it would be about stopping funding one of the few mechanisms we have in the world for this and with all the important players on the table. That would mean that we would say: we are pulling our hands off of this and you are picking it out. That's not the point. It is precisely with sustainable soya that great steps have been taken, steps which many of us had not thought possible a few years ago. I am therefore making a commitment to focus this on the round table. This is also a process at that round table. Other problems have been resolved first. I would very much like to come back to the Chamber with a report which states what this has led to. If necessary, if that's more convenient, we'll do it through Secretary of State Dijksma. Then we'll just take next steps. That's my proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u41	That is exactly what I wanted to ask the Minister: can we get a report on this? Can she also write in that report how much of the soya is gene-tech-free and how much is not? Because I don't know now. Can she also indicate that this website is no good? Now you can't see at all which company is behind that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u42	I'd like to say all of that. We're just looking for an appropriate way to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u43	Will the Minister explain once again what the meaningful dialogue is about in terms of dialogue with parties such as Monsanto? All the social signals we are getting are not of such a nature as to allow us to have a meaningful dialogue. Apparently, the Minister has the idea that this is the case. I'm very curious about where it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u44	The Minister is a perseverant. In my view, that is the best answer to Mr Grashoff's question. I, too, am not always optimistic about the real commitment of a number of parties. Most parties to that round table I speak with some regularity. With them I see real progress and commitment in the sense that they move towards the broadest possible understanding of sustainability. However, this does not apply to all players. For me, that's just not a reason to give up. Let me put it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u45	Doesn't that mean that in such a company the key question should be asked more about sustainability, what social responsibility is and what we are heading for? If parties do not have such a commitment, it seems to me that you can talk to each other endlessly at a round table, but that you can't get any further with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u46	I think I understand Mr Grashoff's impatience, because that is, of course, behind it. Some parties are very constructive. They see each step as a step in a process. Other parties, on the other hand, believe that they already meet all the requirements and criteria with a smaller step. I can see that myself. The main point, if you want to see it like that, is that exclusion of parties from such a round table should really be a last resort measure. Once someone has risen from the table, it is very difficult to get back to it. I still have a few points to do with TTIP in particular. We have also discussed these points in the other committee, but there has been a very topical development on one point. Proposals for arbitration have been made. Mr Van Gerven asked for that. He wasn't there, but his colleague Jasper van Dijk was. The relationship between Mr Van Dijk and myself consists mainly of speaking about ISDS and arbitration. Nevertheless, it is very cordial and interesting. The Netherlands, with the support of the Court, has seriously questioned the existing ISDS system and, together with a number of other countries, has put forward an alternative proposal to the European Commission. This week, it announced that it is putting on the table a new proposal, supported by the European Parliament and the suggestions made in it. That proposal is very much in line with the proposals we have presented. The commitment of these proposals was that we should respond to our concerns and those of Mr Van Gerven on ensuring the policy space for national governments. We are, of course, following this closely. So far we are satisfied with the European Commission's commitment in this area, because, as has been said, its proposals are in line with the suggestions we have made. I believe that this answers the questions I have been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u47	I had asked whether the TTIP negotiations were also talking about genetic engineering, cisgenesis and the contamination of ordinary crops with genetic engineering material.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u48	The Netherlands, as well as the European Commission, have clearly indicated that the accession procedures and criteria for GMOs are not under discussion and are therefore not being brought into the negotiations. Of course, in negotiations it is giving and taking, but not on this subject. So my answer may be brief: that is not a matter of negotiation. There is legislation and regulation on cisgenesis in the EU. This is also not for discussion in the context of TTIP.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u49	That is a clear answer, but I have here emails or correspondence about negotiations that were there in March 2014 about TTIP. These e-mails show that the European delegation has been in America to talk to the genetic engineering industry there. Let me put it this way. How can that be consistent with the Minister's view that genetic engineering is not being negotiated? I have the specific question: is that only a position of the Netherlands or is that shared in Europe? And if so, why is there any talk with the genetic engineering industry? After all, she would like to be given the space to get the gene technology out of Europe's tight rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u50	Let me begin by saying that this is not a private view of the Netherlands. It has also been the Commission's commitment from the outset. I don't know those e-mails, so it's hard to judge them. I can now say 'gosh, the European delegation is well informed', but I simply do not know that. If Mr Van Gerven is willing to share those e-mails with me at a later date, I will be very happy to look into them. That does not change the Commission's commitment, but I can imagine that he would like to double-check it. That's what I'd be happy to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u51	Mr. Chairman. We have very recently had a very good debate in the standing committee on the broad subject of genetic engineering and biotechnology. A number of things have been said in that. Mrs Ouwehand has quoted part of my contribution eloquence, but it was part of my contribution. That is why I would like to say a little more about this in this introductory remark. I have given some thought to the question of what kind of social democrat I am. I think I'm a real breakthrough socialist: someone who does believe in progress and who, like Mr. Love, doesn't want to rule out possible solutions that technology brings us in advance. That is not because I think we can only feed the world if we embrace genetic engineering. That's the question. No one knows that for sure. You can also achieve a lot with ordinary, almost old-fashioned farming methods, which we have been using for years, allowing you to greatly increase the harvest. I said that in the debate and saw it on a lot of journeys. At the same time, there are developments, such as resistance to drought and the use of salty soils. And I'm thinking, why would you want to argue against that in advance? At the same time, the debate on genetic modification has gradually become mixed with a number of very legitimate major concerns, which you must have, not only in the Netherlands but also in parts of Europe and the rest of the world. On that point, Mrs Ouwehand rightly quoted me. I say with Mr Grashoff that it is not just emotion. I would almost say that this is about ratio. It is worrying when food production in our world becomes dependent on one or two large companies. You don't have to feel emotion with that. From your ratio, you can see that this is unhealthy. This isn't a good relationship. It is a strategic mistake to organise the introduction of biotechnology into a tying sale with pesticide sales. Another point that I consider to be very important, also because of my responsibility for agriculture, is ownership. Small farmers, whether in the Netherlands or elsewhere in the world, should never feel compelled to choose a particular model. That is the debate we have to have and then you can also come up with answers on each of these issues. I agree with Mr Grashoff that the legislator should not sit still. So we are working on plant variety rights or restricting patents on live plant material. We are engaged in a discussion about the sustainability, in the Netherlands and elsewhere in the world, of our plant protection products. We are in the process of discussing ownership: how do we ensure that people can organise developments themselves? Here's what I want to say. I don't want to repeat the debate. The President is not allowed to do that either, and she is absolutely right about that. Much has been said and I am committed to at least expressing my position and the cabinet's position on this in my own words. This is partly expressed by Mrs Ouwehand, but it also includes a nuance and I have just tried to give it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u52	There is one point where this debate sheds more light on the limits to what you consider acceptable in the field of genetically modified crops. This can be found in that North- and South-American example of what happens when you become heavily dependent on terribly resistant maize and soya. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that at least the information available on this matter is sufficient to justify saying that genetically modified crops which are deliberately introduced here, or which are intended to be because they are resistant to plant protection products, must be kept out of the door?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u53	I find that a little too much of a simplification of the discussion, unfortunately. I do agree that it would have been much better if the industry had chosen the progress that biotechnology also makes on other subjects, such as the ecological profit to be achieved, as a first objective. At the same time, I agree with Mr Grashoff that you can be very critical of the one-to-one connection of almost compulsory use of certain pesticides at the time you grow certain crops. For this reason, too, we must strengthen the ownership of these farmers, and we must limit the power of these large companies. We'll find each other there, from left to right in the Chamber. There's no one in this room who thinks otherwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u54	I have the feeling that the Secretary of State is responding from a very theoretical framework to a remark that is extremely practical and urgent and is simply on the agenda. There are a number of crops for which applications are made, at European level, for admission. These are the same crops whose effects we see in South and North America. I care about those crops. Can we agree to keep it out of the door?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u55	No, that is not possible, because that is not yet the way European legislation is structured. Mr Grashoff knows that this is the subject of an extensive debate with the European Commission. Growing has already been mentioned on a Dutch proposal that you should make it a national balancing framework. We are working on this now, by the way. At the same time, the Commission has also proposed products. This will break through the internal market. On the Commission's proposal now before us, we agreed from the left to the right that this is the most unwise route. When it comes to the cultivation of genetically modified crops, we are working on a balancing framework. That's gonna be in the Chamber too. The import of products is another discussion. In doing so, we must note that we have a European market and that we will have real problems if countries do something for themselves. In fact, with the proposal as it has done today, the Commission has given the Member States a little bit of control over the problem. Moreover, both the European Parliament and the Member States in the Agriculture Council simply pushed it back, because this is not the way to do it. I come to speak about a discussion that has been going on for a long time: criticism of EFSA. I have already had an exchange of views with Mr Van Gerven on this subject. This criticism means that it is said that EFSA is not independent and reliable and that there would be a conflict of interest. We discussed this on 17 June, for example. The Commission and most of the Member States, including the Netherlands, have always rejected this criticism, not because we think it is, but because we have asked for it to be investigated. The point is that both Ernst & Young's and the European Court of Auditors' studies show that EFSA is pursuing good policies. It has also recently strengthened policy. Mr Van Gerven now had a new publication. Forgive me, but I don't know the station. I can't respond to that now from scratch because I can't oversee or correct what's in there. I could, but I still can't see if it's bad by definition. In the world of biotechnology, the number of experts is low. The chance that someone in his life has ever worked for industry or been involved in a project is simply high. If you declare people out of order in advance, it might be difficult. I find it difficult to respond in this way to the paper that Mr Van Gerven has provided, except for what I have just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u56	Could the Secretary of State come back to that later? This document makes it very clear how much the interlinkage is. I understand the Secretary of State's argument, which says: if you have a very specialised area, you may wonder if there are people who are completely independent. But when you read this, you can see that this is going a long way to one side. Is the Secretary of State prepared to return to the investigation of this German research group in writing?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u57	I think it would be better if we put this to EFSA itself and ask it to respond. She must respond to that. I just screened the article. What this shows is that some people have been involved in certain networks, years ago, but sometimes also working with industry. This is not directly a conflict of interest. This is inherent in the fact that this is a relatively small scientific area. I want to do what Mr Van Gerven asks, but then via the route of submission to EFSA. She has to respond to that and investigate it, not us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u58	I think that's fine. I understand that the Secretary of State will also give her appreciation of EFSA's position. Can I sum it up like that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u59	Yes, Mr Van Gerven can see that. We always do. We also have an opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u60	At the beginning of this summer, Mr De Liefde, a number of other room members and I visited EFSA. We have discussed this issue in detail there. I understand that people with a certain expertise could have worked in the business community and at such an agency. But isn't the solution to the problem of the conflict of interest accusations not in publicising the studies? Then you can always have an open discussion on the basis of the research data, which is open to new scientific criticism. That's how you get rid of that problem. How's that going? I know that the Secretary of State is also in favour of publicising the studies on which the opinions are based.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u61	That's right. I spoke to a few people about this very recently, a few hours ago. What appears is that there is some hesitation because the information in those studies is business sensitive, because it may also concern an invention. However, I maintain my view that the part of the study in which the risks are passed and on the basis of which it is assessed whether or not a means is admissible is gaining momentum when it is public. That's my point of view. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Dat zal ik overal waar ik kan agenderen.]] We are very much in agreement on this. I think it can also help industry to apply maximum openness where it can, without losing the innovations, because I understand that and I am also sensitive to that argument. Then we know what we're talking about. Then I come to the question of satsumas, a topic that came out in an article by the International Agency on Research on Cancer. Mr Van Gerven received a letter on this matter from the Secretary of State of I and M and from me. That article is worrying, without doubt, but here too, the underlying publications needed to assess it have not yet been published. Once that data is available, the Ctgb and the RIVM will look into it, also on our request. We already promised that in the letter. The re-evaluation of arthropods is now ongoing within the Union. That's what EFSA does. These reports will be included in that assessment, and I think that is quite right. Mrs Dikkers asked to mention on the packaging of meat that animals had been fed genetically. Under the current EU regulation, animals that have eaten feed with genetically modified soya are not themselves genetically modified animals. Meat, milk and other products of these animals are not genetically modified and therefore there is no obligation to label them. We support this as the Netherlands. Producers who so wish may indicate it voluntarily on the label. For consumers who want to be sure that they eat GMO-free, there is a very easy solution, namely to eat organically.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u62	I wholeheartedly support that last plea. You would like a market to be created alongside the market that Monsanto has. It would be interesting to see if we can get it by pull factors in the market. I think a label works very stimulatingly on a packaging, so that people think: oh yes, that's a bonus. The Secretary of State regularly tells us to look up niches. I think this would be an excellent niche that we should investigate further.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u63	Yes, but that's quite another thing than to force something through a labelling obligation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u64	Otherwise the consumer will not know. I'm holding on to it. I think such a label would be a very good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u65	The consumer can know it quite easily in principle, because in most of the cattle feed in the Netherlands there is soy imported from Brazil. Most of the time, that's also genetically modified. If you certainly don't want that, then my call remains: eat organic. Then you're really sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u66	This brought an end to the government's first-term response. I note that there is a need for a second deadline. Members have one minute's speaking time, including the reading of motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u67	Mr. Chairman. I'll file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands is largely dependent on imported feed;]] [[calls on the Government to set targets to reduce dependence on imports of animal feed,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Government considers that tying between a genetically modified product and the use of heavy pesticides is undesirable;]] [[calls on the Government to freeze the funding of the Round Table for Responsible Soy (RTRS) until the unwanted tying is no longer part of the cultivation of the soy referred to as "sustainable' by the RTRS,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation has ruled against a TTIP agreement with a regulatory cooperation body in which companies are overrepresented;]] [[pointing to Monsanto's tactics of paying, inter alia, scientists to publish in favour of their products;]] [[considers that such an aggressive lobby should not be institutionalised;]] [[invites the government, the company Monsanto and other companies using such tactics to at least exclude participation in regulatory cooperation bodies,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27428-310]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27428-311]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27428-312]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u68	Mr. Chairman. I am deeply concerned about the aggressive lobbying of huge multinationals that exploit their interests through tying or by other means, without taking social responsibility and without taking responsibility for our environment and our health. It can only be that we talk about this more often. These are the next concrete occasions. The next concrete opportunity is when we talk about the balancing framework for whether or not to allow the cultivation of genetically modified organisms. I hope and expect that we will then be so wise that we will at least exclude those products which are specifically intended to dominate our food through tying. In due course, I will, of course, table motions on this in due course, but I hope that will not be the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u69	Mr. Chairman. I'll file the following motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the WHO classifies Roundup as a carcinogen in the second highest category;]] [[calls on the Government to introduce the ban on Roundup in playgrounds and sports fields as soon as possible, but not later than the 2016 growing season,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas an estimated 30,000 lobbyists are employed in Brussels;]] [[whereas the European Ombudsman advises to reduce the power of business in DG AGRI expert groups;]] [[calls on the Government to lay down its vision of reducing the power of lobbyists in Brussels and to respond to the recommendations of the European Ombudsman,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the WHO classifies Roundup as a carcinogen in the second highest category;]] [[Whereas in the regions of Argentina where much Roundup is used, there is a significant increase in cancer and birth defects;]] [[whereas this soy ends up in the Netherlands as feed and that grain treated with Roundup ends up in Dutch bread;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the extent of the residue in bread and animal feed and to report to the Court within six months,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Gerven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27428-313]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Gerven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27428-314]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Gerven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27428-315]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u70	I have another piece for Mrs Ploumen, to which I would ask her to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u71	Mr. De Love also has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u72	I expected Mr Van Gerven of the Socialist Party to come forward with proof of the bold theorem he set in the direction of me and the VVD'ers. I thought he'd come up with that in his second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u73	You want to hear the verdict that the VVD had dollar signs in her eyes one more time?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u74	That question was still open.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u75	I would like to give Mr Van Gerven the opportunity to provide proof of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u76	You're giving me a chance to repeat it. That's what I've done. I come to the point because you did not really agree with the cynical remark made by the Minister of Argentina that the modification of soya is becoming rich, using a lot of Roundup and other pesticides. Be it so that this leads to children getting sick, who get cancer or whatever, because the money is at the top. It would adorn the VVD if it expressly distanced itself from it. The cynical attitude there shows that money is more important than public health.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u77	Mr Van Gerven noted that he was somehow sticking the behaviour of an Argentine minister to the spokesperson of the VVD in this debate. I find that special, regrettable and very unjust, but Mr Van Gerven is free to invent and stick all kinds of things together. I think it's sad.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u78	Well, then I have one more question. Why, then, did the VVD spokesperson not expressly distance himself from that attitude of the Argentine government spokesperson? And if the VVD expressly renounces that, why doesn't that have certain consequences? You can say, for example: listen, if this is the way it is going to be, we do not import such contaminated soya. The Dutch government does the same for clothing made by children in India. Then we also say: we do not accept that, as a civilized country, we do not import those clothes when the hands of children are attached to them. In this case, children's diseases are involved. If Mr.De Love thinks that is important too, let him expressly renounce it. Then I'd like to rethink my words about the dollar signs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u79	Mr De Love, you are so explicitly addressed that I give you the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u80	Let me say this. I think it is very unwise, on the basis of a television broadcast, to make quite absolute and bold statements about an Argentinean minister or a MP of the VVD. In the past, we have also had examples in this house where a Dutch minister or a number of MPs put on quite large shoes and made statements about the production of clothing in certain countries which later turned out not to be entirely correct. I am committed to being careful and having debates on the basis of complete information, and I believe that Mr Van Gerven has gone far beyond what he described as the VVD spokesperson. I regret that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u81	I see this as a personal fact, which is also recorded as such in the Acts. I give the floor to Mr De Love. He's dropping his second term, I see. Mrs. Dikkers also waives her second term. This brings to an end the second term of office. I'm just gonna take a look at the rulers. I would like to give them a few moments to get their motion administration in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u82	Mr. Chairman. I thank Mr Van Gerven for the copy of the e-mails. I'll come back to it later. I would then like to refer to Mrs Ouwehand's motion on item No. 311. My request to her is to hold this motion. I just made a commitment about my conversation with the members of the round table. I think it would be a good idea to take a moment and report back on this. Then Mrs Ouwehand can always decide whether or not she wishes to table the motion. In any case, I find it annoying to discourage the motion now, because I have made a commitment on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u83	I'm willing to do that. I wonder if the Minister can give an estimate of when she could report. Do we have to think about the beginning of next year?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u84	I would say: early next year seems fine to me. You shouldn't want to take it much longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u85	At the request of Mrs Ouwehand, I propose her motion (27428, No. 311). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u86	Then I come to Mrs Ouwehand's motion on item No. 312. In fact, it calls for parties to be excluded from the regulatory cooperation bodies. Mrs Ouwehand is right to say that I am in favour of a balanced body in which everyone, including consumer organisations and NGOs, is well-balanced. However, to rule out parties in advance, I really am not in favour of that. Then the end is a bit lost too. So I must discourage this motion, not on the grounds of sympathy for one party or the other, but because I disagree with the mechanism. I shall now turn to Mr Van Gerven's motion for a resolution on item No. 314. I would ask him to hold this motion because I would like to respond in writing to the European Ombudsman's recommendations. Reducing the influence of lobbyists and making the influence of lobbyists more transparent is something we can all support, I think, but I think it would be good to first look at the detail and consult with colleagues on how we can respond to these recommendations. Then Mr Van Gerven can always consider whether he wishes to table that motion or whether he is satisfied with the answers he receives from the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u87	Mr Van Gerven, are you prepared to take this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u88	The motion had already been tabled, but I'd like to arrest her if the Minister can indicate a timetable. The Ombudsman makes it very clear that this is both transparency and balance sheet. We would like a clear answer on these two aspects.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u89	I imagine we're giving this for Christmas.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u90	I take it, Mr Van Gerven, that you're holding the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u91	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u92	At the request of Mr Van Gerven, I propose his motion (27428, No. 314). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u93	I thank the Minister and I give the floor to the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u94	Mr. Chairman. I'll take care of the remaining three motions. First of all, I will deal with the motion in part No. 310 on the objectives of reducing dependence on imports of animal feed. With the livestock we have, the Dutch dependence on the import of animal feed is a fact. We're working on how to do things with other protein strategies. We shall return to that in our food vision. However, what Mrs Ouwehand is asking for, complete with objectives - I assume that she wants to see percentages - I do not think that is proportionate. I don't think we can just pull this off. That's why I advise against this motion. As has been said, there is an internal market for animal feed within the EU. If you don't do things here anymore, it's gonna work.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u95	I have to laugh a little about what the Secretary of State says. I don't think she'll blame me for that. We are working here completely with objectives. We agree on policies and then the cabinet can say: we want to do this and that is what we want to achieve. Then we say "yes" or "no" and then we charge the cabinet for results. It does not even say: formulate these objectives. The Secretary of State may choose for himself, but it is really good use. The President will agree that we are also clarifying the ambition of the policy. Then the Secretary of State may judge for himself what it considers feasible. That's all the motion asks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u96	I get that. I'll give you my assessment. Well, that's my responsibility, then.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u97	I note that the Court of Auditors is always cutting this off, and so does the Secretary of State. It is really good practice to have clear objectives, which we can measure afterwards whether or not they have been met. If the Secretary of State then has a good story, let's leave her alone, if she has a very bad story why she hasn't achieved her goals, then the Chamber says: well, then we'll find another one. That's how it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u98	I know how it works. That is why I should not make promises that I cannot deliver, because that is what the Chamber is charging me for, and then I have a bad story. That's how it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u99	So you're dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u100	Yes. I can't help it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u101	I'll have to confirm that. Sorry, Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u102	I'm sorry I'm so blunting, Mrs. Ouwehand. We usually find each other, and for good reasons, I say. With his motion in part No. 313 embarrasses Mr Van Gerven because this motion is really intended for Secretary of State Mansveld. If a motion is tabled, it must be done to the colleague who is talking about it. I would ask Mr Van Gerven to hold his motion. Mr. Mansveld is working on banning it. I don't have the exact time in my head. I think that is a little later than what Mr Van Gerven is asking for in this motion. It also has consequences if he wants it to be different. On procedural grounds alone, I advise against the motion, but I also believe that this type of motion should be tabled. In his motion in part No. 315 asks Mr Van Gerven exactly what happened to the residue in bread and animal feed. I make Mr Van Gerven an offer. There is just one standard and that has to be met. I'm assuming there's research data. I'm prepared to make that information available to the Chamber. That's gonna take a few months, 'cause I'm guessing we're gonna have to get that data together. I would ask Mr Van Gerven to hold his motion. He now asks me to order the NVWA for a whole new investigation, but then I come into trouble with my order package for the NVWA at some point. I therefore intend to be a little stricter in these areas. If I had to turn off this type of assignment wide again, I couldn't do a few other things. I can figure out what's already there. If Mr Van Gerven does not think that is appropriate, we will undoubtedly have another debate on this. I'm fine with that, but I've provided information.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u103	It seems fine to me that we are getting a report of what has already been looked at, on the basis of existing data. Then we can judge whether that is enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u104	At the request of Mr Van Gerven, I propose his motion (27428, No. 315). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u105	Mr Van Gerven, the Secretary of State has also asked you very strongly whether you are prepared to make the motion in part No. 313 in a debate with the Secretary of State for the Environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u106	That's good. I will apprehend her and involve her in the debate with Secretary of State Mansveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u107	At the request of Mr Van Gerven, I propose his motion (27428, No. 313). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-33.u108	Vote on motions for resolutions tabled and not held will take place next Tuesday. I wish you a healthy, safe journey home.
