ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u1	I have received written answers from the Prime Minister to questions raised in the first term. These answers will be included in an annex to the Acts of this sitting. (The attachment is recorded at the end of this edition.)
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u2	The Prime Minister is about to respond in the first term. He starts with an introduction of up to ten minutes and ends with reading the blocks in which he has divided his text. Then you know a little when the subject will be dealt with. I suggest that the Prime Minister does his introduction without interrupting him. After that, there's plenty of room to ask questions. I see that Mr Wilders has a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u3	Mr. Chairman. When I speak, I don't get ten minutes in which I don't get interrupted. I just want to be able to interfere with the Prime Minister; not a single privilege for that man. I want to be able to interrupt him.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u4	There are seven cubes...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u5	I don't care.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u6	You'll have plenty of room to interfere. The Prime Minister would like to make an introduction for a moment. I don't see any problem with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u7	I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u8	Well, here's how I'm gonna do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u9	Then I'd like to start with an interruption before it starts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u10	You can make a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u11	No, I want to interrupt the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u12	I suggest we just get started.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u13	Mr President, this is just a debate in the Chamber. This isn't his maiden speech. So I'm just allowed to interrupt. I don't see why I should keep my mouth shut for ten minutes. We are already discussing this with each other, and I want to be able to interrupt the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u14	You can interrupt him, but since yesterday the Prime Minister sat in the Chamber for 12 hours and listened, I would like him to say a few short sentences. I just heard him say he needs three minutes to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u15	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u16	I'm gonna give him that opportunity. I suggest we just get started. I give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u17	Mr. Chairman. I need a few sentences in order to express my gratitude towards the Chamber for what was put forward yesterday. In the direction of Mr Wilders, I say that what I may now say in terms of content will come back later in the answer to the questions. I do not want to avoid the debate with Mr Wilders. On the contrary, I always look forward to that. I thought it would be a good idea to outline something of a context at the beginning of the debate. Once again, Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Wilders and other group chairmen very much for their contribution yesterday. Some were praised for government policy. Here and there, among all the praises was also found a dry twig. That's how it goes. However, I must say that all contributions were constructive and that most groups put forward concrete proposals for change. I'm going to try to respond to that as best I can today. In particular, I would like to express my appreciation for the groups that have drawn up counter-budgets, whether they have been calculated or not, or have presented lists of amendments in writing or here in the debate, which lead to adjustments to the budget. I will try to do as best I can on that too. At the beginning of this first term on the part of the government I make a few general observations on my side. For that, I may be able to take back an important passage in the Throne speech. Let me sum it up in my own words. The Dutch society is indeed strong, but it is not obvious that it will remain so. All Dutch together must take care of that. There are indeed several aspects to this. Let me give you an example of how people interact with each other. We have had a whole debate on this recently, following my big speech at the VVD Congress. However, it is also about whether people feel safe and secure about the future, about their jobs, about care in the Netherlands, about their old age; a strong society is an addition of all these aspects. This also directly affects the two major themes that are fighting for priority at the start of this political season. I am referring, of course, to the economy and, on the other hand, to the unstable international environment and the resulting flow of refugees. On that last theme and everything that this means for the Netherlands, I will be the first to dwell in detail. Let me now say a few words about the economy. I shall come back to this later on on the basis of all the questions. Indeed, we can be positive about the economy at the moment. It's about time. The cautious recovery, which we saw last year, is now continuing. These are the fifth General Reviews for me as Prime Minister and in all these years there have never been so many signals on green as these days. When I look at the housing market, the business investment, the export, the falling number of bankruptcies, the growing consumer confidence, the construction, the retail sector and the broadcasting industry, I see: things are getting better. You can also see the positive macro figures in terms of growth, the budget deficit and the increase in purchasing power. And I may not have an account of my own, but the Rabobank presented even better figures. Let's hope they're right. But on one thing I can and should like to say that many of you too are not satisfied, and that is the development of unemployment. Yeah, there's gonna be jobs. We have now had five quarters of job growth. 100,000 jobs have been added in the last five quarters. If you look at the total number of hours worked in the Netherlands, we are back at the level before the crisis. At the same time, more people report to the labour market, with the result that, if we count, there are still over 600,000 people at home under the line. I simply think that's too much. I note that the ambition to reduce this is felt in many groups. We are going to talk about this today. It is therefore important to make changes in taxes, to ensure that work will pay more, which will eventually lead to purchasing power recovery for four of the five families in the Netherlands. The lower labour costs for employers, the child care allowance, which is rising; it will all help to boost employment. What is important now is that everyone will really feel that recovery, so that confidence can grow again in the future. This has to do with purchasing power, but certainly not just with purchasing power. It is also about the way in which a number of major changes in the system that have taken place over the last few years will eventually be put into practice. That is what the debate was about yesterday, and that is what we will be discussing today. The Wmo, the Youth Act, the Participation Act, the Work and Security Act, the Long-Term Care Act and the Higher Education Act are all reforms necessary to strengthen the socio-economic structure of our beautiful country, to ensure provision for the future and to modernise. But we must realise that this kind of system change is profound for people and that they do not go by themselves. That is why there is a lot of pressure and emphasis now on implementation. We're in the middle of that. And let us be honest: we see that, even in debates, this is never 100% clear, but it is 100% important to keep the negative effects of the start-up problems to an absolute minimum, as in the case of the pgbs. If it does not go well, it must be improved and we must be prepared to look at it with flexibility. If I've learned anything in the last five years, it's that governing isn't something static. Each government must anticipate, plan and implement, but situations and circumstances change. They also require adjustments. We saw this last year in foreign policy. Look, for example, at that terrible disaster with the MH17. We have seen what the unstable international environment can ultimately mean in terms of leading the way in the national debate. I have to say that the world has not become more stable since last year, quite the contrary. Last week we had a wide-ranging debate on the issue of refugees. That, of course, does not mean that everything has been said on this subject, quite the contrary. Every day we see new developments. We are dealing with a major and profound problem. I would therefore like to say that I have just said that my answer starts with this subject. Then I will deal with defence and international issues. The blocks after that are: finance, economy and purchasing power of citizens. Then come the labour market, the social security. Then I will deal with national security and justice. Energy, climate and environment, followed by various national themes, including care, education and decentralisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u18	Reasonable figures, after five years of squatting in various compositions. But the most important figure, as far as I am concerned, is unemployment. The Prime Minister said, "I'm better." But the figures this morning show a different picture: in the months of May, June and July unemployment fell by about 7,000 a month and in August it stopped again. If there is anything government policy can influence, it is employment, by ensuring that this incentive is there through the economy and/or the tax system. Why did the Prime Minister drop the ambition, the plans to increase employment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u19	That ambition is unabated. However, we have had to observe, also yesterday in the debate, that there is insufficient support for further tax reform, which requires support from various groups in this Chamber. The cabinet has considered and now comes with adjustments to the tax system and proposals for reduction of charges that contribute to the economic recovery.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u20	I think that's too easy. I don't think it's a testament to persevering your own ideas. Last year there was a cabinet plan here, with all measures. Then you cannot say: yes, but because the opposition does not want to help us and is divided in it, let us drop those plans. Those 604,000 people also represent families, for uncertainty. It is fantastic that it is now being repaired for workers and now for others. We are talking about progress of 1% to 2%, small amounts. Important, but they're small amounts. But there is the uncertainty that you can lose your job, that you know that there are people in the street, in the family, in the church and with the football team who don't have that job and don't get it, because of the policy of this cabinet. Why is that ambition gone?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u21	The policy of this cabinet, supported by D66, has led to 100,000 new jobs in the Netherlands in the last five quarters. We see an enormous increase in the number of hours worked. At the same time, the good news is that a lot of people who had left the labour market are reporting again. They see opportunities again. As a result, unemployment is not falling so visibly. In the meantime, she has decreased by 100,000 since the peak of 700,000. But we want to reduce unemployment further. I therefore entirely agree with Mr Pechtold. That's where you need taxes and reliefs. For this, proposals are now before the Chamber, in the Tax Plan for next year. But most of all, what you need is a further strengthening of our economy. We must ensure that it is attractive for entrepreneurs, for enterprising people, for people who stand by and are trying to train to get back to work. For this we can create the conditions with each other as politics, by low costs, by good education, by decent social security and by few rules. That's what we have to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u22	That's right. That's what we should do. I thank the Prime Minister for the compliment we received when we did. I would like to thank him for his compliments on D66's plans, which we submitted yesterday. But I ask the Prime Minister, who is standing there and I assume not to stand aside, just like last Friday, to let someone else do it...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u23	Mr. Wester!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u24	Yes. If you don't want to do it for the last year and a half, make way. Let another with ideas ensure that employment is there and that these 604,000 people have prospects. My central question is: are you prepared to accept the ideas that my group has mentioned for more employment, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u25	We are very open to any suggestions from the Chamber to improve cabinet plans. That's the first thing. I have to say, however, that Mr Pechtold and his party have supported reform policy at an important stage. But when we talked about the tax review before last summer, it was not possible to reach agreement with that party, nor with GroenLinks. I regret that, but things run the way they do. Then, as a cabinet, we must take our measures. I am convinced that the recovery policy that has been deployed and the strengthening of the economy that is now taking place will lead to further job growth in the Netherlands. All the figures show that. What we are doing now with the reduction of charges will make an important contribution to this. Finally, in the direction of Mr Pechtold. I shall come back to his counter-budget. He makes choices. One of the choices he makes here is that we must also be realistic in his statement that I am putting more than the cabinet into improving the purchasing power of workers, but that is at the expense of pensioners, for example. That is a real point, he may do, but the cabinet has tried to put in place a balanced proposal here, in which the purchasing power of workers can increase considerably, but we also manage not to lower the purchasing power of pensioners and beneficiaries, at least not overall.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u26	The Prime Minister began by saying that in the five years I have been Prime Minister, the signals have never been so green. Then I say: as long as this Prime Minister is Prime Minister, he has never been so unjustly complacent. The signals are not green. I wonder if the Prime Minister ever sets up a television and sees the big threats around us. The great threat of the refugee issue, the great threat of IS, the great threat of terror. This isn't going well. The signals are on orange, and we need to make sure it doesn't turn red. I therefore ask this Prime Minister to state that he does not see anything on the green, that it is all hands on deck and that the great risk is more unrest.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u27	I have spoken briefly about the two dominant issues at the moment: the economy and the major issue of international instability and refugees, rightly mentioned by Mr Buma. As far as the economy is concerned, I have said that, after years of rising unemployment, there is now an increasing number of bankruptcies and declining purchasing power. At the same time, I have stated that there is great concern about the important issue of refugees and international stability. I agree with Mr Buma, which I share with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u28	When the signals are so green economically, I am surprised at the interview given by the Prime Minister on the day of Princess Day. For the first time in that he no longer says: I go with my cabinet for it, we have an appointment until the election. For the first time, he says, literally, "But what if you come up with something that you say: guys, this is so fundamental, we're stuck, it's not going to happen anymore... Then you should be able to finish it in a proper way. Then you go to the voter." I have never seen a Prime Minister himself speculate on the day he presents his budget to go to the electorate. Then we all know there's more to it. Otherwise, this Prime Minister would have said: we will go ahead, we will go for it. In short, how does the Prime Minister come to make such a statement, knowing that we all know what's behind it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u29	I wanted to say that serving a government period is never an end in itself. I have also said in that press interview with a number of writers that I am confident that this coalition will reach the finish line, that there is still a lot of work to be done, that there is still much to be done in terms of implementation and reform, that we are also looking forward to good relations between these two parties, and that the differences between these two parties are huge about almost everything, but that we can always manage to get things right. What I oppose is the idea that sitting out the ride politically would be an end in itself. No, that is a goal in itself as long as it also achieves the important social results for which we are called in the public administration, you in the Lower House and I here with my colleagues on the government's side.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u30	It remains quite remarkable, because even now the Prime Minister is issuing such a clear profit warning: we are going on as long as we can do something and otherwise we will not. How did the two men, Samsom and Rutte, start? We are now going to show that we are making a cabinet complete the entire journey. That was one of the goals. I can only observe that it is extremely remarkable that the Prime Minister on the one hand says that all signals are green and on the other hand gives a profit warning about his own cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u31	It's just the other way around. I am still unabatedly ambitious to reach the finish line with this cabinet, doing the important things that are necessary for this country. If I am asked whether achieving that finish line is an end in itself, I hope for Mr Buma and for everyone here that they will never see it as an end in themselves if they were in the government. The aim is to govern this country in a decent, sensible way and to solve problems, to make choices in scarcity. That's what we politicians do every day. So far, this coalition has succeeded well. I do not have any reason to say that in the interview, too, to assume that that is going to change.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u32	The Prime Minister has rightly said that there are two main issues: economics and instability, and hence the flow of refugees. We also saw the second point yesterday in the Chamber. In extremism, a whole story was written, on the other hand, with an applause machine. I thought that was very unwise. This indicates that people are still going to be further separated and turned against each other, while we need to find a solution for all those people who come looking for a safe place, but also for people who see tent camp coming in their backyard in two days. How does the Prime Minister, as Prime Minister of all Dutchmen, see his role in this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u33	I agree with Mr Roemer that these are exactly the two sides of the coin of this great issue. On the one hand, we must ensure that we manage this flow of refugees properly and seek structural solutions. I am glad that there is now support in Europe for bringing this problem under control, not immediately but as soon as possible. On the other hand, I have a great deal of sympathy for people who wonder what happens when they suddenly build or build an asylum-seekers' centre in their city because of this large influx of people from outside. I understand that very much. The solution I have for this is twofold. In the short term, we must do with each other everything that is necessary to manage this. People who have to go back, we have to send them back. People who are allowed to stay must integrate into society as soon as possible. And we must ensure that Greece and Italy take responsibility. For the medium term, that's even more important. We need to ensure that we can finally dry up the asylum flows by allowing people to stay in the region. And then people, as Europe has now decided, can be sent back to safe ports on that land.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u34	That is all very well and perhaps also true, but the people who are getting to the debate see a politician at a distance, while people feel things personally. There are people who are looking here and they feel welcome in one place, but not in the other. There are also people who are really worried about the size of their village and wonder if all this is feasible. Those people are expecting a prime minister with a human size. They expect him to go there, to show understanding and to come up with solutions, not with political views from somewhere in Europe or even further away. My question was specific: what will the Prime Minister of all the Dutch mean to the people on both sides, in order to prevent us from being driven further apart? Yesterday we saw something from here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u35	That is why it is important that we recognise together that the increased influx of refugees causes people in the country to worry. We need to recognise these concerns and we need to understand them. Maybe we'll even share it with them. At the same time, as politicians, we are committed to managing these issues. There is now a possibility of a European Council next week. When it comes, all these issues need to be discussed. How do we ensure that people report to Italy and Greece are doing well? How do we ensure that people who report here, but are not allowed to stay, go back as soon as possible, and that people who are allowed to stay integrate into this country as soon as possible? At the same time, Mr Roemer takes this off a little if not important, but I do not agree with him; I do think that this is very important, and we should also show that we are able to offer these people safe shelter in the region in such a way that we can prevent that passage on those shaky boats, which in too many cases lead to deaths.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u36	Does the Prime Minister still show himself in the next few days in all those places where people stick their hands out to catch people and ensure that they get a good place to stay, and is he going to talk to people who are worried about what is happening in their town or village?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u37	As Prime Minister, I am on the road a great deal and I will always pay attention to this issue as well. Mr Roemer can count on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u38	Yesterday, in one day, 700 asylum seekers entered the Netherlands. That's 250,000 a year. If they all bring a partner, that's half a million people a year. The Netherlands can't handle that. Then we cannot wait for a European chat stop next week. As Prime Minister with your coalition, you represent about 30 seats in all polls. That's 20% of the electorate. I believe that you cannot take such important decisions, on the replacement of the Dutch people, on the open border policy and on the asylum system of Islamic people who flood our country, with a representation of only 20% of the people. So I would ask you to be a democrat. Please refer this decision to the Dutch people. Resign, write elections and make this the stakes of the elections. Make it a big referendum. Let the Dutch electorate decide whether you are right about your open border policy, or whether the PVV might have more support for its point that we should not wait and now close the borders; we cannot handle it. You may not make those decisions with only 30 seats in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u39	First of all about these elections: if I were to do so, that means that in the next four months, politics will be lame in the midst of an extremely important issue. I'm not gonna do that. I'm here to solve problems and not to run away when things get tough. I leave that to others. I'm trying to fix them. That's one.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u40	You're not solving anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u41	Mr Wilders, I am going to try to answer your question; give me a chance to do so. Secondly, I do, of course, agree with Mr Wilders' analysis on a number of points. Last week he raised the important issue of asylum shopping in Europe. People travel to Sweden or Germany, while they can also receive shelter in the country where they entered. One of the cabinet's proposals is to say to asylum seekers who are right to come to Europe that Europe decides which country they will end up in. That's how you avoid that asylum shopping. That is one of the coalition's proposals. I also agree with Mr Wilders and, by the way, with Mr Roemer, as I have just said, there are legitimate concerns about people. But now I come to the point where Mr Wilders and I differ. That actually affects the crazy proposal for elections and the fact that he says to politics: let it go for the next four months, we go to the electorate and do nothing at all. That is what Mr Wilders says. I want to manage this problem as well as possible and in a sensible and decent way, both in the short and longer term. We must be honest with our constituents and the Dutch people, Mr Wilders. This is a complicated issue. You can only solve that in its completeness, both in the short and longer term. There are no simple solutions to this. If that's what you're suggesting, it's not right. And finally, this. I've been hearing the Wilders talking for days about an Islamic tsunami and about testosterone bombs. I think that's really terrible terms. They contribute nothing, but nothing at all, to the solution we need to find together. It's actually empty-handed. I would be happy if that became clear today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u42	We don't need any analysis, nothing at all. The Dutch people are now crying out for a solution. We can't handle 700 asylum seekers a day. The boundaries must be closed. We can't wait for you to do something right. So far, you've only made a huge mess of things. More asylum seekers come in every day. This Prime Minister has lost touch with reality. You live in a fairy tale world. You are only surrounded by clapping socialists and other wandering lights. Those are the people who support you. Prime Minister, the Netherlands no longer wants your policy. The Netherlands says no to 500 000 asylum seekers who are going to flood our country. The Netherlands doesn't want that anymore. The PVV is going to call on the people to oppose the Prime Minister, who is the Prime Minister of the Netherlands only on paper. You are no longer the Prime Minister of the Netherlands, Mr Rutte. 20% of the people support you. The rest of you don't want your policy anymore. We will fill the streets and city halls of the Netherlands to demonstrate against your policy, just as long as you are gone or the asylum influx stops.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u43	First of all about this dream world: I read that Mr Wilders' favourite attraction in "What's the name of this beautiful amusement park again? Oh, yeah! The Efteling is the Dream Flight. That's where he likes to go, so who lives here in a dream world? Two. He is proposing elections and saying: over the next four months, we are shutting down politics. Then there's nothing we can do. I think that is totally unacceptable and irresponsible. We are not running away from these problems. Three. This cabinet ensures that we manage these issues properly. It is not possible to solve all the problems here today or tomorrow. In the short term and in the slightly longer term, we must ensure that we deal with this problem. That's what this coalition does. We are working on this with broad support in this Chamber and it does not give the impression that this problem can be solved with a simple stroke of pens or a simple proposal. That's a real illusion policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u44	Wide support in this room? This Chamber no longer represents the Dutch people. Don't be blind! Listen and look at Dutch society. People are being robbed with asylum seekers' centres for 3,000 people a day. The municipal councils are not even informed anymore. The Netherlands does not want this, Prime Minister. If you don't see this, you're half blind. Wake up! Wake up and stop with that crap that's gonna fix it. The only solution that will be put to the dike at the moment is to close the borders. I cannot repeat it enough: 700 asylum seekers a day. 700 a day! When we had the debate last week, we talked about 1,800 asylum seekers a week. Meanwhile, there are 5,000 a week. 5,000 a week! There's no way to pay for that. Our people are being replaced. Mr Rutte, if you can only talk about 'leading in the right direction' and European summits, then you must go home. Then you'll have to step down. The Dutch people deserve better than such a prime minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u45	I have great faith in the Dutch people. This is well known that complex problems call for public administration and politicians who, on the basis of a sensible analysis of the problems, come up with sensible and decent solutions. That's what we do. What Mr Wilders is now presenting is really illusory politics. He had an interrupting debate yesterday with Mr Zijlstra on the closure of borders. That instrument is there, as Mr Zijlstra has confirmed. That instrument is there, but he has also pointed out, and rightly so, that the borders will still be porous. You can never guarantee that people will not enter the country via country roads or other possibilities. So that's not enough. That is why, at the same time, in the Middle East, in the region, you will have to provide decent care. You need an integrated approach and you need all the instruments. Now Mr Wilders gives the impression to the Dutch people that this problem can be solved here with one simple measure. He's doing this wrong, and I'm going to fight this image with my hand and my tooth. The most tragic thing is that I know Mr Wilders very well that he knows this like no other. This actually only makes it worse.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u46	It has been said a few times: this is a crucial moment in history. This applies to more things that we are talking about, but it certainly applies to the refugee issue. Our country is now faced with the enormous challenge of taking up the great flood of refugees that is coming here. That is difficult enough, but after yesterday this becomes even more difficult. When... and............................................................................................................................................................. With that you call to two Dutch. My question to the Prime Minister is: what is your response and what is your story to all those people who have now been called upon to oppose the arrival of asylum seekers? What is your call and what is your message to these people? How do you keep the Netherlands together?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u47	My message is not that of GroenLinks, because the message from GroenLinks in yesterday's debate was the other extreme: we have to accept it, it is a fact and we cannot do anything about it. Actually, I think that's just as caricature. That's not my solution. My solution is to say that I understand very well that people in the country are worried about this huge increase in the number of refugees. They are concerned that this will lead to the sudden construction of asylum seekers in their neighbourhood without sufficient consultation. Sometimes there is no opportunity for consultation, but we must try as much as possible. People are asking, "What's going on here?" They say the country changes, my village changes, my city changes. They ask: how do I deal with that? I can understand that. At the same time, we are dealing with the need to manage this issue. It doesn't give a single pass to put people away on a few features: Islamic or testosterone bombs. I said this to Mr Wilders earlier when he did. That doesn't give me a pass at all. If people are finally allowed to stay here, it is very important that they also integrate into this society as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u48	Is this the message you send to the people who are worried about it? I can imagine the worries when suddenly there's a asylum-seekers center in your neighborhood, in your village or in your city. What is the Prime Minister doing to ensure that the atmosphere in the Netherlands remains calm? After yesterday and after this morning, I am deeply concerned about the atmosphere and hostility that have arisen. Then the Prime Minister may try to push away our solution, but what will he do to keep the moods calm and to ensure that we remain one country? How does he keep us open to all those people coming here looking for security?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u49	First of all, I have great confidence in the Dutch people, the Dutch people and the wisdom and insight of the people in this country. I have just said that in my discussion with Mr Wilders. They understand very well that you do not solve these kinds of big complex issues that come to us with a stroke of pens or one simple measure. They understand very well that it calls for unity in politics to manage this issue for both the short and the longer term. I have great faith in it. I consider the support and support for some of the far more extreme expressions I have heard here to be very limited.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u50	I have just heard the Prime Minister say that things really need to be sorted out for the short and longer term. He has already stressed in his contribution that there is a serious problem, including for the Netherlands. I would like to talk to him about the financial resources available to the cabinet for the first-year reception of asylum seekers in the Netherlands, as we call it. I see in the budget that we still had more than 800 million available for it in 2015. For 2016 we go back to over 500 million. However, there is also a reduction in COA of more than 200 million. It has to do with an adjustment of the pre-emptive system or something. You'll be worth $347 million for the coming year. You don't have to have studied for this. Everyone can see that these are not realistic amounts if you look at the scale of the problem. Why did the Prime Minister judge and book this so low? Is he prepared to look at it now to avoid problems in the future and to bring it to the level we are dealing with today?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u51	The budget in the 2016 estimate has already been substantially increased compared to last year's budget. The IND also received additional funds, 90 million in 2015. That amount will end, but there will remain a plus of 30 million in 2017. The availability of funds will never prevent the organisation of decent care. I can certainly reassure the Chamber in that. There are regular decision-making moments where we will always consider whether the estimates need to be adjusted. At the moment, this is the estimate we work with and in which we have confidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u52	I do not understand at all what that trust is based on. The amounts for 2016 are lower than the amounts for 2015. There is also a cut of more than 200 million on the COA. That now has a lot to do in all those places in the Netherlands of which Mr Wilders mentioned the names yesterday, to arrange the shelter. That's not real, is it? Something's got to happen, right? I wonder what the Minister of Finance has just told you. Is there gonna be any extra money? This is not going to work. Then you will have problems that will feed the unrest that is already there, that is to be understood. Do something about it!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u53	What the Minister of Finance just whispered to me was the right point that it works at the COA as follows. Part of the budget is budgeted for by the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation. The checkout moment is shifting. So it's not a real cut-off. This is really a bookkeeping thing. That's one. In that respect, I can reassure you. In addition, I can tell you that the estimates have been increased. We are always looking at all the estimates, whether they are student numbers, asylum entry or costs in the care of the elderly, and we are considering whether adjustments are necessary. This will have no impact on employability.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u54	If there is reason to do so, the cabinet will come forward with proposals. We'll wait and see. I suppose there will be that occasion. I told you before, you really don't need to have studied for that. The numbers are already much larger than when the cabinet was working on this budget a few weeks or months ago. So I'm assuming there will be adjustments. I also assume that this also applies to what we will do in the region where the vast majority of refugees are receiving. There, too, the sums of the cabinet are absolutely inadequate, especially in view of the pretence, which I believe is justified, that the reception should take place there as far as possible. Here again we see that the amounts for 2016 are again lower than those for 2015. This does not fit in with the words spoken here about the seriousness of the situation and about a contribution from the Netherlands to do something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u55	I do not think I agree with Mr Slob on these amounts. At least I see it differently. Let me try to get the facts straight. For example, the situation in Syria and its surroundings is currently being addressed by the Netherlands when you look at what we should do and what we do twice as much, 193% of what we should do. At the moment, we are the sixth country in terms of the international contribution, for Japan, Switzerland, Norway, Sweden, Denmark and Saudi Arabia. So we are currently the sixth country to contribute. Again, in the coming period, that amounts to 193% of what we should do. So we do a lot. Even when it comes to the cabinet plan and the proposal that has now been embraced in Europe for more reception in the region, it is not the case that the Netherlands is going to pay it on its own. Of course, we are all going to seek contributions for that. We have also written in our cabinet letter that if asylum flows go down, this will ultimately mean less costs here. If you were to use part of it to strengthen reception in the region, those euros would, of course, have a much greater effect there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u56	I would like to come back to the available budgets for next year and the estimates. If I see the estimates correctly, the cabinet assumes that 14,000 fewer refugees will be coming to the Netherlands next year. The estimates are adjusted from 40,000 this year to 26,000 next year, while we can already see that there is a higher inflow. Then I ask the Prime Minister: does he think that the influx and the estimate are going to be true?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u57	Next year's asylum estimates have been increased compared to last year's budget. At the moment, we think that this is the estimate we need to work with. If necessary, we're always... All right, then I'm actually going to repeat what I just said to Mr Slob.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u58	Then a little more precise, please. If I'm wrong, I'd also like to hear it from the Prime Minister. I take from the documents that are now being calculated that 14,000 fewer refugees will be coming to the Netherlands next year. Did I read that wrong? And does the Prime Minister agree that this is a very optimistic or cynical thing to say, at least I do not know that the estimate may not be entirely correct?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u59	Compared to what we are used to, there is a very substantial increase in estimates. I would like to reassure Mr Klaver that the availability of funds will never prevent the actual reception of refugees. This is what we work with. If it is necessary to adjust estimates, we have our moments for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u60	Why, then, does the Prime Minister not find the time, in the General Political Reviews, to adjust these estimates? I am actually asking a very simple question: does he think that next year there will really be 14,000 fewer asylum seekers than we expected this year? Does the Prime Minister really think so? And if he thinks that this is not the case and more people are coming, then isn't this the time to get extra money for shelter? Surely you cannot cut the budget of the COA for next year, which is the budget for the shelter almost half if you assume that more refugees will be added? So my question is: does the Prime Minister really think that there will be fewer refugees coming to the Netherlands next year?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u61	Once again, we see that the flows of refugees are very volatile. They depend very much on very specific circumstances. That's what you're seeing right now. By the way, you can set up a whole tree about what exactly is the reason why the flow of refugees is increasing. We have made estimates for next year which are based on a substantial increase in the budget compared with previous years. We're working with that now. Mr Klaver was particularly concerned about the COA and other institutions. I repeat once again: if the actual flow of refugees were greater than the estimates, it would have no impact on the level of reception available.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u62	I can imagine the Prime Minister saying that we are not going to adjust budgets every time, but we are adapting to changed circumstances. However, the Council of State also stated in its opinion on the Millions Note that even in an explanatory statement on the Security and Justice Tables, it is assumed that there is a lower influx of asylum seekers, that there is now a very different trend and that extra budgetary space should be provided based on larger numbers. If that is such a clear trend now, is it not reasonable for us to get new figures for the budget handling of Security and Justice that give a real picture of what we can expect to spend in 2016?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u63	I would really like to go along with the normal adjustment times for estimates, whether it be for health care or other things. Otherwise, on the basis of a number of weeks' figures, we are going to increase our estimates very uneasy. These are volatile movements. I would imagine that the Chamber would say: ho, beware, if you frame too low, that could also have an impact on actual refugee reception. Well, I can say from the latter that there is no question of it if the estimates are too low or too high. We're picking up what we need to catch.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u64	The last thing the Prime Minister says is that what needs to be done will certainly be done, but I am also concerned about the budgetary law of the Chamber. If we now know that certain figures will be different due to current developments, then it is not too much to ask for the real figures for budgetary treatment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u65	This is an estimate. Mr Van der Staaij talks about adjusting this estimate at an unusual time on the basis of developments over a number of weeks. I would really like to keep an eye on that, because then you will have a very restless budgetary policy. In my view, it is important to note that this is a matter for the time being. If it's necessary, it'll be raised. At the same time, if that estimate is wrong, it will have no impact on actual reception.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u66	But it is our job as a parliament to see if the government's estimates are correct. And they don't knock for a second. Anyone can see it's different next year. If the Prime Minister is talking about maintaining support, it is so important that the proposals put forward by the cabinet here today are based on some reality and not on air cycling. I think I'm gonna be the umpteenth one the Prime Minister's advising to change it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u67	I would also like to say to Mr Pechtold............................................................................................................................................................. If, on the basis of very volatile figures, one suddenly decides to adjust estimates, that leads to a restless budgetary policy and gives a restless budgetary picture. With regard to the self-righteous concern that might live in the Chamber as to what this means for the actual reception facilities, I can say that there is no need for that concern on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u68	I believe that bureaucratic arguments, and also a certain obstinacy of bureaucratic arguments, must go against reality. Everyone can see that next year will be no less than this year. Anyone can see that the number of 14,000 down is crazy compared to this week's figures. It is precisely in order to present a budget and an estimate of which everyone feels 'they understand what is happening in The Hague' that it is very important that these figures are adjusted. I would advise the Prime Minister to accept this and not to go further on a collision course with a Chamber that tells him about the left to the right: we do not think this is wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u69	Maybe it's a good thing we're trying to discuss this with each other on the content. My objection to the substance is that I do not think it is sensible. I'm not saying that out of some kind of perseverance. It is my concern to continue to do fiscal policy in the Netherlands carefully rather than to make extrapolations with each other in a number of weeks without sufficient firm justifications and to adjust the estimates at unusual times. That's my point. I can also imagine very well, perhaps, that we may agree to discuss it further in the budget of justice, but this is our view from the cabinet. I'm allowed to leave it here, too. Of course I am listening to what the Chamber says, but from the cabinet I would really like to warn against a restless budget policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u70	The question that concerns me is how it is possible for the cabinet to send a budget to the Chamber which, when it comes to this major global problem, which is still growing enormously, is taking up sums, even when it comes to reception in the region, which are lower than the amounts we had available last year. I don't understand. For example, for reception in the region under the heading of humanitarian and emergency aid funds, an amount of 484 million will be allocated for 2015. I added the 110 million of the cabinet that communicated it to us in its letter of two weeks ago. Looking at the amount for 2016, I come at 354 million. So that's 130 million less than this year, but if we look at what's going on in the world, we see that the problems are growing. So who's gonna window on you?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u71	This is another question of estimation. With regard to the previous one, in response to Mr Pechtold's interruption, I tried to find a common ground. Once again, I maintain my view that we must guard against a restless budgetary policy. Then I come to the issue of reception in the region. It is paid from the emergency aid budget and the Relief Fund. The humanitarian contributions are not planned forward. Expenditure is made on the basis of needs. They simply cannot be predicted in advance. This means that the 2016 budgets are not yet known. Our expectation is that these needs will continue to be high in 2016. This means that there are several sources from which this funding should be provided for adequate, possibly semi-permanent reception. It will, of course, always be a combination of own resources, for example from reception countries, funds from other countries in the Middle East and contributions from the European Union and international organisations such as the World Bank, but also with contributions from the Netherlands. As far as Syria and that region are concerned, I have just outlined that we are number six in the world. We are doing twice as much, or 193%, of what we should do on the basis of our national income. I think that on this point Mr Slob and I are pulling on the same side of the rope.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u72	I have to say, I don't think the Prime Minister's story is very convincing. He's bringing the whole world in. We are dealing with the estimate. We are getting a budget with figures and we are looking very closely at them. We have been quite busy with this over the last few days. Then we simply see that for the next year, the amounts for reception in the region and the posts in front of it are more than 130 million lower than for this year. I don't understand. Anyway... The Prime Minister just made a work agreement on what we in the Netherlands need to do to get back to the other budgets. If we can make this work agreement, I would like to see the Prime Minister's promise that if necessary, and I think it is necessary, unfortunately; there is no escape from this, we are looking together to see whether we can get the amounts at a realistic level. If we do not do so, it will create unrest. And unrest can go around in a different way. We shouldn't want that with each other at all. Let's just settle this in an orderly manner. And the room wants that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u73	But it's already taken care of here. Again, you cannot plan this forward and budget it forward, simply because you will also have to identify the needs on the basis of what is happening. This means that the budgets for 2016 and beyond are simply not known. That's how the system works. That's how we agreed to do it here. We will all realise that the need will remain high in 2016. Let there be no misunderstanding about that. However, this is how the system works. It's not a matter of windows, it's a matter of sticking to a good system here too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u74	Another question about the reception of first-year asylum seekers. If there is indeed a higher influx than expected, resources will eventually be available to accommodate these people. Almost all of this comes from the budget for development cooperation. My question to the Prime Minister is as follows. If the numbers of people who are coming here are so large and if the amounts we have to pay for the reception are so high, is there a ceiling where we will also look at other budgets or look for other coverage that can contribute to the reception of these asylum seekers? I find it very cynical that we have people in developing countries paying for the reception of first-year asylum seekers in the Netherlands. So you're saying there's a maximum?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u75	Of course, we made additional payments at the end of last year. We have agreed on a system with each other here, and it is wise to stick to it. From the development aid budget, the resources for the first-year reception of asylum seekers are deployed. That's one. Mr Klaver knows that. Two: if you look at the additional costs due to the increased inflow, it has so far succeeded well through the multi-annual free space in that budget. This has to do with macro-vallers, but also the ODA budget itself has grown. There are therefore no existing OS contracts for them to be broken open. We also paid in last year. So it's running around right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u76	Macromeevallers, it might not have been invested yet... The fact is that the money we spend here on the reception of asylum seekers in the first year cannot be spent in developing countries. We have agreed on a system in which this must come from the development funds. I get that. I am not saying that we should abandon it altogether. But there's a maximum, isn't there? I come now to the General Political Reviews because we should now look at whether there are other ways to find cover, because there is still a maximum of what we ask developing countries to contribute to the reception of refugees here. My specific question to the Prime Minister is whether he is prepared to consider this with the Chamber and to see if there are other ways of covering for the reception of refugees in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u77	I would be reluctant to do so. We have seen in the past that, if it is really necessary, we always see if there is to be a collapse. We did that once. Furthermore, this system is a robust one, which so far does not lead to the opening of existing OS contracts, simply because the budget has grown over the past year. With this it was possible to use the unspoiled space for the extra reception needed. I really want to be careful to turn it into a kind of separate budget line that we are completely decoupled from the ODA budget. That would be a system that I find inappropriate. It's really common for freshman care to be covered by the ODA budget. I think we should stick to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u78	That system works. We see that over the last two years, none of the estimates have been accurate and that we have had to make subsequent adjustments to ensure that the reception of asylum seekers in the Netherlands was still arranged. I'm glad that's what happened. My plea was not to pay nothing more from the ODA funds, not to get anything more from the Development Cooperation budget to receive refugees here. My plea was this. If the influx is so large, we are asking so much of the budget of development cooperation, which is already under pressure, that we should also see if we can find money on other budget items. I think the Prime Minister's answer is that he is not prepared to do so. I hope the Chamber doesn't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u79	I'm coming... no, I see Mr. Roemer at the interrupting microphone. It wasn't a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u80	With all due respect, I think that these budget lines on the left and on the right are a little less relevant. I think it is much more relevant to ask what the cabinet achieved last Monday. We are all talking about better reception in the region being one of the solutions. Is there going to be more fresh water in the region today? Are there gonna be better tents? Is there food? Have the shelters in the region improved significantly? Do other countries actually come up with money, as they have promised? Is something really happening? Are the United Nations actually able to improve reception in the region today? Or should we conclude the bankruptcy of international cooperation and wait for weeks while winter is coming in the region?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u81	Let me try to pull that apart. There are several questions in Mr Roemer's speech. The first question I am listening to is what was actually decided last Monday. The Netherlands would have made two decisions. The first was, I would just like to refer to the interruption debate that I had just had with Mr Wilders that, in order to prevent asylum shopping in Europe, Europe would work towards a system in which people do not decide which country they are going to live in, but in which it is decided for them if they are allowed to get asylum in Europe. It hasn't worked yet. So far, there is still discussion of the Commission's proposal on a relocation system: the famous 120 000. It hasn't been decided yet. There is, however, a view of such a majority that, if necessary, those countries that oppose it could be over-voted. Last Monday, however, a decision was taken on the approach for the slightly longer term, namely additional investment in the region. This makes it possible, on the basis of the fact that there is a safe third country, to declare an asylum request inadmissible in the Netherlands and to bring people back to that safe place in the region. I think that is good news, because it provides an integrated approach, both for the shorter term and for the slightly longer term. It worked out last Monday. There is agreement on this point. I happened to be in contact with my German colleague this morning, including the possible European Council. There is no decision yet. We agree that if this European Council is to take place, it will have to deal with this in particular. We are talking about the whole palette, the hotspots in Italy and Greece and the issue of returning asylum seekers who should not stay here until the decision of last Monday to strengthen reception in the region, so that they can ultimately have effects. The ultimate goal is to cut off the smugglers. If the Council takes place, it will be next week. If this is not the case, we will at least have an additional Justice Council on Tuesday, with the Klazen Dijkhoff of Europe, i.e. the Justice and Migration Secretary. It'll take place Tuesday night. That is where I think you will never know for sure in Europe, but that is my estimate of the 120,000. If there is no European Council the following day, I expect that this more structural approach will also be discussed there. I apologise for the long answer, but this will prevent me from answering a number of other questions. So I'm just gonna combine it. The profit is it's all speeding up. Last Monday, things got jammed. It only threatened to get a sequel on 8 October, but it will be next Tuesday. I would also like it all to be speeded up; I agree with Mr Roemer immediately. But it is going much faster than I feared, both for the short term and for the medium term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u82	A lot of things have been said that I agree with. There's talk of hotspots. In 2010 this was a proposal from the SP Group, so I find it difficult to oppose it. What matters to me is that a lot of people now have a problem. The reception in the region is not enough. We all know the images and we know why people are fleeing. If the international community is not able to make rapid improvements to reception in the region, that is the failure of the international community and international solidarity. That's what my question was about. What's the deal? The Netherlands can't do it alone. We must do it together, we must do it with the United Nations, we must do it with the international community. Today, fresh water must go to the region, better tents must go, food must go, education must be provided. In this way we can actually improve reception in the region. What has been agreed on this and what do we see happening today?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u83	I am in danger of repeating myself, but I think that we have decided to adopt an approach which is also advocated by the cabinet for the medium term. I expect that decisions will also be taken for the shorter term. For the longer term, it is now important to carry out things; Mr Roemer and I agree on this. Of course, it's not like nothing's gonna happen. There are existing UNHCR camps, but we all know that in Lebanon and parts of Turkey it is all very rigid. This is partly a reason for the large migratory flows. We must ensure that investments are made, that there is a perspective in these camps, so that people can stay there for a longer period of time, in accordance with the cabinet proposal. We can say to people who come from such a region that they can have safe shelter there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u84	We must achieve, we must try to agree, I am pleased with the long-term profit, I am pleased with the medium-term gain... so nothing concrete was agreed last Monday. Europe has not been able to arrange emergency aid for all those camps that need it today. For a lot of people, that's a reason to leave. If we are unable to do so, the flow of refugees remains high, because it is a reason for many people to go. Will the Prime Minister promise that he will make it a priority today, tomorrow and the day after tomorrow to ensure that emergency care in the region becomes humane, because that is urgently needed? That is what the international community must do now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u85	This is exactly Cabinet policy. It is also European policy now. I told you, I've been in touch with my German colleague this morning. If there is to be an additional European Council, this must be an important part of the discussion. I agree with Mr Roemer. I also agree with him that we would like it to be much faster than it is now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u86	I also put my question to the chairman of the VVD group yesterday. I hope the cabinet does have an answer. Is there a maximum number of asylum seekers for the cabinet that the Netherlands can tolerate? Is there a number in which the cabinet says that this really exceeds the absorption capacity of our society?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u87	You can't come up with numbers. It's a crazy question. What you have to do is take away the reason for people to come here. As long as there is still a reason and people come here, things must be distributed fairly in Europe. That is not the case now. The burden is far too great for a limited number of countries. That's why this relocation proposal is so terribly important. I shall return to the beginning of my speech on the subject of migration: we must continue to work together to support this society for the reception of people who are really entitled to receive asylum here. At the same time, we must do everything in our power to stop the flows to Europe, including the terrible images on TV of those boats on the Mediterranean.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u88	Of course, it is not a crazy question when we look at the enormous pressure it puts on our society. I refer to the social security costs that are going to rise enormously and to the reception costs that are going to amount to a billion next year alone. We are seeing enormous social unrest. I find it a little strange that a policy of 'we'll see where the ship is stranded'.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u89	I'd find that weird, too. Fortunately, that policy is not being pursued either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u90	Apparently so, because the Prime Minister is not even able to indicate the maximum number of asylum seekers that the Netherlands can tolerate. We can already see that it creates enormous tensions. This cabinet is fine with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u91	That's not true either. I think that is what this morning's debate is all about. My reaction to Mr Van Klaveren would be that instead of us here screaming about the demand of absolute numbers, we should ensure that flows are reduced. At the initiative of the Netherlands, sensible European decisions were taken. Initiatives should also be taken to curb asylum shopping in Europe. We are still less successful in this respect. In any case, however, we seem to be moving towards a decision in which Eastern Europe will also take more responsibility. That is a step in the right direction for the shorter term. This is how the problems need to be addressed: to send people back who do not belong here and to ensure that countries such as Italy and Greece are properly cleared up the people who report there. Those people need to be treated in a decent way and get an intake. They're all working hard on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u92	It was very surprising to the CDA that the Prime Minister earlier this week said that he did not really need a European summit. I still don't understand that. How can a Dutch Prime Minister say on this subject that a German Chancellor's proposal to hold a summit is not really so sensible?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u93	I'd like to explain. Like Mr Buma, I fully understand the symbolism of a European summit. It can often also be very useful to detach stalled decision-making. I think Mr Buma is referring to that. In this case, however, I make a different assessment. Last Monday, after a lot of contact, I myself had almost all my Eastern European colleagues on the line or otherwise corresponded or spoke to them, it proved impossible to reach a decision. In summary, no decision could be taken in which Eastern Europe would also be prepared to take part in the responsibility. That didn't work. And now it's getting complicated. In Europe, such a decision cannot be taken in the European Council of Heads of State or Government because it is decided by unanimity alone. My point is that if the European Council's objective is to tie the knot here, I do not expect much of it, unless we succeed in getting the countries of Eastern Europe killed between now and next week. So far, however, I do not have much hope for that. There may come a time when we must say to the Eastern European countries: we are going to vote against you. That can be done on this subject. This is possible with a so-called 'qualified majority'. However, this cannot be done in the European Council. This can be done on the Board of the Klazen Dijkhoff, the State Secretary and Ministers of Migration. That council is meeting on Tuesday night. If there is a European Council, it seems to take place after the meeting of the State Secretary and Justice Ministers. That can work; if so, it can be decided on Tuesday evening to take such a decision by a majority, after which the European Council will be able to use my contact with my German colleague from this morning to discuss everything around it. How do we ensure that it stops in the medium term, how do we ensure that Italy and Greece take responsibility, etc.? I agree with Mr Buma that a European Council can be a signal that European leaders are going to tie the knot. I'm sensitive to that, too. In this case, however, I was afraid of the exact opposite effect, namely that it would be blocked because it would have to be decided unanimously in that council.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u94	It is strange that, while the Prime Minister said that he had hesitations at a summit, his Finance Minister yesterday or the day before yesterday, he said: "Glad to see Merkel coming up with a European summit. Either the Prime Minister says "I don't believe in it" or the Finance Minister says "yes, it is that European summit."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u95	Yeah, I thought that was special, too. However, we've come all the way out together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u96	That is why the Prime Minister can laugh, but I find it very clumsy when such a signal is sent out to the outside world by the Dutch Government.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u97	Listen, we've got 20 people in the cabinet and we're getting permanent microphones under our noses. Is that so bad? I don't believe it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u98	I said in my first term that mercy and compassion must be guiding the reception of refugees. I hear the Prime Minister speak so much about this. The Prime Minister says at the same time that we have to take away the reason people come here, that they flee. I agree with him on that, too. I have indicated that this is a very complex problem and that the Netherlands can look at how Dutch behaviour helps the reason people leave their country. I am referring, for example, to a rose grower from the Netherlands who is going to grow roses in Ethiopia at the expense of farmers there, and to the fact that, in order to promote our exports of agricultural products, we use four times our own land area abroad for the cultivation of cattle feed in poor countries, which means that people can no longer farm there. I deal with major issues here, but it is important to mention our trade policy here. Multinationals of the Netherlands remove income from poor countries because they find a tax haven here, the Netherlands, with haunted offices on the Amsterdam Zuidas. I ask the government to take this issue into account in the analysis of how we can stop refugee flows, to look at our own behaviour to prevent us from robbing raw materials from poor countries and growing roses in Ethiopia, where there is poverty and drought, and to deal with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u99	I didn't see this coming for a while, but I'm going to try to fully serve Mrs Thieme.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u100	I'm not surprised.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u101	No, we have a lot of that, but I'm gonna try anyway. I would like to shed another light on that problem and perhaps see it as an opportunity. Because it is bad for countries like the Dutch exporting industry... And we have, I think, perhaps the best agricultural sector in the world. We are a very small country but the second agricultural exporter. I am extremely proud of our agriculture. I am extremely proud of our agricultural entrepreneurs. They are world leaders. I often make the joke that I am happy to think of the university at Wageningen and not of the residence of Alexander Pechtold and Jeroen Dijsselbloem. In the rest of the world there is no thought whatsoever of that residence, but of the Wageningen University, which is world leader, the Harvard of the agricultural sector. If that exporting industry is committed to helping businesses in other parts of the world to make use of the business sector here, the Foreign Trade Minister is committed to this and we have funds for that, often also revolvers, then that is just great news, isn't it? In this way, we will solve the major problem of food safety and availability. And it's good for our companies and the companies there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u102	The Prime Minister should speak more often with refugee work and other organisations. They indicate that we are disrupting things by the way we trade, for example by dumping chicken wings in Ghana or by growing roses in Ethiopia, where there is drought and poverty. They indicate that we are disrupting the agricultural economy in those developing countries, which is the basic income of a lot of people, and that people are therefore drifting. Because lack of food and water is one of the basic motivations of people to leave their country. It is therefore in our own interest to stop this aggressive trade policy and to use all kinds of raw materials from those countries, and to start by giving them the opportunity to build their own economy without being flooded by subsidised European agricultural products. If we really want to combat the flow of refugees, then we will have to organise our own aggressive trade policy and export policy better, so that they do not come at the expense of developing countries. Is the Prime Minister prepared to include this in the analysis of how we can stop refugee flows, or at least see if there are any negative effects?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u103	I worked before I got into politics at one of the world's leading food companies, Unilever, which is very big in Africa, for example in tea plantations. These tea plantations are among the most social, the most investing, the most socially integrated institutions in those countries. I would say exactly the opposite: our business, our agricultural sector, are good news for Africa. They create activity, create entrepreneurship. They also ensure that our agricultural sector can continue to grow. Let us take that win-win and if something goes wrong somewhere, if things don't add up, I'll be the first to help. But I do not want to confirm here the image that it is wrong across the board, quite the contrary. I think it's good and good things are happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u104	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u105	We are facing an extremely complex problem when it comes to refugee flows. I expect this cabinet to start by looking at how we can stop these flows of refugees, because otherwise we will get so many refugees here that we will lose the support for them in our country. Once again, the question to the Prime Minister: is he prepared to consider to what extent our own trade policy, our arms supplies that we are encouraging, will contribute to further escalation of conflicts and our multinationals who do not pay taxes in developing countries, thereby depriving them of income? Surely that is the least a cabinet can do to prevent any more refugees coming this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u106	I'm always willing to look at things, but as a cabinet you have to have the beginning of an analysis and I don't. If we're gonna look at it, we're gonna be some kind of science agency. We're not. We're the government. In the absence of a start in sharing that analysis, I cannot make any commitment to this. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u107	I would like to go back from Mrs Thieme's chicken wings to a point that Mr Roemer raised and I would like to join. If you speak in Europe later, how are we going to ensure that, at the end of the year, for example, we are going to use resources from the European Development Cooperation Fund to prevent food from running out in the refugee camps, which is driving these people out of control? Furthermore, the Prime Minister was in contact with his German colleague this morning. It would be a good idea for our Prime Minister to say to his colleague from Germany that it would be very wise for her to stop saying inviting words. The flow of refugees that has now begun is also a result of Mrs Merkel's saying: if you come here, you will be admitted. If Mrs Merkel, if the European Council takes last Monday's decision seriously, we are going to do what Mr Roemer rightly asked, namely to ensure that we manage reception in the region and to prevent food from being consumed by the end of the year. But then we also have to stop radiating that anyone who comes here gets and can stay here. That is not the case, and that creates currents that, if we are not careful, will become uncontrollable. I would also like to see that message transmitted.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u108	On that first point, I fully agree with Mr Zijlstra. In addition to what I said to Mr Roemer, I would like to say that next week, in New York and Brussels on 26 October, EU Development Ministers will discuss the integration of this issue into the European context. Once again, if there is a European Council, the aim is to raise this issue there too. Secondly, I am not responding. Not because I agree or disagree with Mr Zijlstra, but because it is good practice in Europe that we as Heads of Government do not comment on each other in public. I will leave that with Mr Zijlstra for a moment, without indicating what I thought of his words.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u109	I understand that very well. My analysis is that the problem in Europe lies not in the mercy and leadership shown by some European leaders, but precisely in the lack of them. After all the reflections here, we just need to get to a solution. Does the Prime Minister agree with me that it is inconceivable that next week there will be no solution from any of the European Councils that are being organised? In other words, will the Prime Minister do everything in his power to ensure that Europe finally takes the necessary decisions next week, including the decisions on the redistribution of refugees over Europe and the hotspots, which it is now stuck with?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u110	Yes. But I would add that it is an effort obligation. Because I have already done this in the run-up to the Council and Klaas Dijkhoff, the Secretary of State for Security, has been working on this on a permanent basis. During the night hours he was busy organizing the whole shelter in the Netherlands. He's still in there. We're working on it day and night. But last Monday, to my disappointment, it was not possible to reach an agreement on the short term. That does disappoint me. We're gonna go through with it and do everything we can. I am sincerely a little more optimistic about next week, because progress has been made on the short term in last Monday's Council and there are also majorities visible. But we don't have it in yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u111	I do not doubt last week's commitment, but apparently it was not enough. So we're gonna have to put a tooth on it. You can see two knots now. One is that the wording on the fairer distribution of refugees across Europe is too binding for some Eastern European countries. I believe that European lawyers and politicians are man enough to find a solution. The other problem is that in southern Europe it is now said: first make such a distribution formula, then we are going to think about those hotspots. From northern Europe the exact opposite is said. I'm sorry, but I can't help but think that next week's unsolvable by agreeing with each other that you're doing both at the same time. Will the Prime Minister make a commitment to this? This also means, however, that, in the position of Northern Europe, the hotspots and then a fairer distribution must be given a degree of flexibility, otherwise you will never get out and Europe will be back to square one.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u112	This position is mainly borne out by the French. I therefore ask Mr Samsom to call his good friend, the President of France, because it is mainly there. But I really agree with Mr Samsom. Of course, you have to do it at the same time. The best solution is to do both. His analysis is good, and so is his solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u113	I know.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u114	He knows!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u115	I know that, and that is why I need the help and flexibility of this Prime Minister. I know that the Dutch Government, which is its task, is to represent the Dutch interests in Europe under state law, but it sometimes wants to take a position that prevents a final compromise. In this case, I would like to choose to put European interests and therefore general interests at the top of the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u116	But they don't bite each other. Last week we said: if you want to accept the short-term, Europe must also agree to the longer-term perspective. It worked. So we can also move along with the short term. I think the only solution is to do it all at the same time on that shorter term, because you're stuck somewhere else in some kind of belief in one or faith in another. It is France in particular that attaches great importance to first things and then the other. The best solution is to secure everything in one Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u117	It is all complicated enough, but to make it even more complicated: an important ground problem is the whole situation in Syria, which seems to be hopeless. There are constantly new warnings that the whole country is in danger of emptying even further, to a greater extent with Russia's use of weapons and so on. How is the linking of this problem with the commitment in foreign policy to help prevent this outflow from Syria, with the problems there?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u118	This is, of course, extremely complicated for the Netherlands and even for Europe. Mr Van der Staaij rightly analyses that Syria is now a very unclear theatre. On the west coast of Syria, we are dealing with the struggle between the government led by President Assad and a range of opposition groups. At the same time, more to the east, we see the presence of IS, which makes the supply to the Iraqi part of IS possible. So it's a very unclear theater. I think the international community should be careful to jump to conclusions too quickly. We really need to analyse very carefully what the Western contribution can be there. The Netherlands is now active, as we know, in the fight against IS on the Iraqi side. That's where we make our contribution. We are also very carefully analysing the situation on the Syrian side and what we may have to do there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u119	That is clear, but isn't the conclusion that, unfortunately, it cannot be foreseen that this outflow from Syria will stop in the short term? Should we not consider many more refugees from Syria in the coming period? Does this not call for a far greater commitment to reception in the region of Syria than has been the case so far?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u120	Yes, I also think that this is the reason for the urgency I experienced with Mr Roemer, Mr Zijlstra and in various contributions yesterday. And everything has to be done at the same time. We must make sensible decisions in the short term on how to deal with the presence of people in Europe. For the longer term, we must do everything we can to implement the European plan. However, this can already be shaped in the shorter term by preventing the food from running out and people from fleeing for that reason. Mr Van der Staaij is adding one more aspect to the problem, namely that these camps are not static and that people are still going from Syria. This shows that we are right to talk about this for a long time. This is a very complex problem that you cannot solve in a simple way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u121	Everything has to be done at once. That's right: reception in the region and good distribution in Europe. But everything can't wait for everything. That is why I am asking, in line with the PvdA's question, whether next week the Secretary of State will be able to agree to a good system of distribution, if the reception in the region, which we all advocate, needs to be further developed. You know, I'm kind of pinched that everything's gonna wait for everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u122	The political link that was there last week was necessary. Mr Samsom made an analysis in his second contribution, but then he was laughed away. However, it appears that he has been completely right. I remember very clearly that he said at the time: the problem will not be supported by the somewhat longer-term perspective of the cabinet that has also succeeded in getting Eastern Europe, in particular, to agree to the relocation proposals. It worked out exactly as Mr Samsom said. Last week's political link was achieved in the medium term. Therefore, the cabinet can also accept sensible proposals for relocation in the shorter term, in this case the 120,000 and the Dutch share in it. However, a European decision must be taken. That is not what we are trying to stop, and that is what we are trying to promote.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u123	I am extremely pleased that the Prime Minister is pleased with the way in which the long-term proposal has now been formulated. I have to tell you, I think it's very soft. But it is wonderful that the Prime Minister is happy with it: the VVD can hold on to it. I am referring to the image of these dense borders and such. However, we even heard yesterday from the VVD group chairman that this is an illusion policy. Well, that's fine. Of course, the long term is important, but Samsom has not come forward for nothing. He has come forward to say that next week Dijkhoff simply has to agree to that fair distribution. I have the feeling that there is a kind of brake from the cabinet to keep it from happening because the longer term has not yet been fully turned from the VVD to 'the borders close'. However, I have heard it very clearly: the Secretary of State is in favour and will agree to the most important now urgent issue of a fair distribution of Europe. That is an important point of profit.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u124	In fact, he did so last Monday and I did so last week, in combination with the other issue. Maybe I should just say that I thought the part of the debate that was going on here yesterday was very crazy. What you achieve by organising that reception in the region properly is that as a country you can say to the people who come from there that there is a safe place and that their application is therefore inadmissible. That is what Europe decided on Monday. That is important because it is the only way to prevent people from getting on those boats. This is without prejudice to a very different discussion that took place yesterday, namely the debate on whether to close the borders as a country. Yes, as a country you can close the borders, even if the question is how effective that will be. However, that is a very different part of the discussion. If you manage to implement Monday's decision, we are now going to work to ensure that reception in the region improves so that people don't come here.You haven't literally put a fence around the Netherlands. However, you can tell all those asylum seekers who come from the region that there is a virtual fence because there is a safe other place where they can go. That is better and that also prevents the business model from going crazy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u125	Here we go again: the VVD tries to cover its own makeability here every time. When that piece of work came out of the VVD group, you thought it was fantastic because then the boundaries closed. Do you know why this kind of policy does not support it? Do you know why there's grumpy in society? Because you keep saying in headlines that the boundaries are closed and you have to accept that things are different. I give you again your promises that fall apart after a while, but it is so bad for the credibility of the Netherlands. Let's both do it, and let's make sure that's the solution. Let us not linger in illusion politics that that region, the Middle East, is safe. I mean, we are not just solving the conflict between Israel and the Palestinians. There's a much bigger problem there. If climate refugees are added, this will be the biggest challenge of the 21st century. Don't say: Europe is closed and the Netherlands can close the borders. It can't be. We're gonna have to support it. We will have to ensure that all solutions are implemented as far as possible, knowing that the solution is not there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u126	Mr. Pechtold is getting agitated. I recognize that from last week's debate. We're at exactly the same point. I said, and I repeat again, that I am in politics to solve problems, both for the shorter and longer term. The solution for the slightly longer term has indeed not been achieved tomorrow. We will all have to work very hard on this throughout Europe. But I want us to achieve this with each other, because that is the only way I can prevent people from making the dangerous crossing, and only in that way can I offer people a perspective in the region. Last week, I also told my good friend Alexander Pechtold that I was so disappointed that he said: I am leaving things and I am just solving the short-term problems, not the medium-term problems. That surprised me from D66 and from Mr Pechtold, who I normally find on my side to solve problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u127	That's what a Prime Minister says, making an estimate for next year in which fewer asylum seekers come. That's what a prime minister says in his finances he can do with less money. This is what a Prime Minister says, who in his previous cabinet has cut all the integration budgets, participation budgets and integration budgets. Who's in the middle of illusion politics here? I say do it all, but tell the Netherlands that it is not realistic that you can stop refugee flows. You can try to regulate them. You can say you're human. You're gonna have to work together. However, it is the VVD with its illusional policy that every time people pin something on the sleeve. Yeah, that annoys me. Yeah, I'll keep addressing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u128	You're not gonna help. I ask Mr Pechtold why, if we try to solve this problem more in a structural sense and we also get support for it in Europe, he is against it. I'm surprised. Anyway, I'm gonna leave it, because I tried this last time. I can't figure it out, because then he'll come back with the estimate. That's okay, of course, but it's about something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u129	The Prime Minister mentioned the situation in Syria as an unclear theatre. I think that this qualification might be even more appropriate for the way in which Europe is trying to tackle this immensely serious problem together. The Prime Minister has also indicated that he has some optimism that decisions can be taken next week. For my part, I support Mr Samsom's call for it to be done next week. I ask the Prime Minister, who just indicated that we should not let this go, whether the Netherlands will continue to take responsibility if there are no decisions to be reached next week and no cooperation in Europe. Can we assume that the Netherlands is not going to make retreating movements?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u130	We're taking responsibility right now, I think. We're just seeing the influx increase. I don't think that's where the problem is. We're trying to solve the problem. I agree with everyone who says that Europe will fail if it does not succeed next week. I have good hope that it will succeed, simply because such a qualified majority is emerging. I also think that we should try to prevent them from being needed, because preferably you convince each other. We make all kinds of attempts, but if we have to, we have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u131	The Prime Minister says that we are taking responsibility because, indeed, quite a lot of people are coming to us now. In the cabinet letter we discussed last week, the short-term and long-term are very clearly linked. It also states that we will not contribute to the redistribution as it was at the time on paper, with the numbers that would be included, if no agreement were reached. Can I now see from your words that you have let go of that and say: of course, we are going to try to get out of it as much as possible and if we can't do that, we will take responsibility? If that's the case, there's a satisfied person here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u132	Last week's political link was a different one. In order to accept the relocation proposal, it was also necessary to reach an agreement on the longer term. The latter succeeded. Mr Samsom had also predicted that this would succeed sooner than the other. Turns out it's coming out. Now we have to try to arrange the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u133	What strikes me most about the way in which the Prime Minister is debating is that he is actually choosing the same construction as he did last week in the debate. He tells the VVD story and does not stand here as the prime minister of a VVD-PvdA cabinet. Because he's repeating the image of the VVD it's now become virtual that the borders of Europe are closing. I keep saying, including the Prime Minister, that this is not true. We all want shelter in the region. The Prime Minister can do whatever he wants, but it's not true that borders are virtually closed. In fact, that phrase came in last Monday, because the Netherlands wants it and every country gets a little courtesy. That is what it says, but the implementation of that sentence will simply become the migration agenda of Europe that the European Council had already proposed in May. A few sentences have been added, but the steps are not going to change. It would be wise if the Prime Minister were not here as VVD campaign leader, but as Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u134	This refers back to last week's debate which would inevitably repeat itself somewhat here; we knew that. Mr Buma then said that each party in the coalition received part of the letter. I have already asked Mr Buma to let in the idea for a moment that the coalition as a whole can carry the whole letter. I can tell that I didn't succeed. I have to accept that. The fact is, this is true. I also believe that I am speaking here today to a large extent about how it can be achieved in Europe in the shorter term. For example, what is needed for the relocation? We are working very hard on that. All kinds of questions have also been asked about the longer term, and I try to answer them in good conscience.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u135	It remains remarkable that the PvdA never talks about "virtual closing of borders," but says: yes, that is something the VVD may dream about, but in reality we are working on reception in the region. Once again, that is true, because that is what Europe does. In fact, I keep saying, that phrase is typically a form of courtesy. Many countries get courtesies to make it easier for their national politics. That is why it is now stated in the conclusions. But what will Europe do? Europe will do what it had planned: food to the refugee camps and commitment in the region. The Prime Minister repeats the story of virtually closing the borders. That's a bullshit story. That's really election rhetoric and not prime minister talk. He should stop doing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u136	If I annoy Mr Buma with the words I choose, I will neutralize the matter and put it more generally. It says you need to work on a better shelter in the region. If you get people from a region where there is better care, you cannot declare their application admissible on the basis of the safe third country criterion. We think that's important, because if you do that a few times, you show people that they don't have a chance to get in here. That's the only way to stop those boat trips, with all the dangers for people there. There is also a big problem for the shorter term. That is what we are talking about, because Europe has not yet managed to reach agreement on the shorter deadline.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u137	Finally, because otherwise we will be repeating last week's debate back to what the whole Chamber agrees, namely that the international legal situation is so that people can be returned to a safe third country, if there is one. We all want this to happen more often and so there will be more safe areas in those countries. That's what the CDA wants. But the CDA doesn't want to fool people. The story that people should not be afraid because we are sometimes going to close Europe's borders, virtually or not, is not true. A prime minister should never say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u138	As I said at the beginning, the only way to solve this issue is to look at all aspects at the same time. There is now a great deal of agreement in Europe on some aspects in the longer term. I am glad that Mr Buma supports that, as he just said. At the same time, it has not yet been possible to reach agreement for the shorter deadline. This coalition would have preferred not to see the relocation proposal, but would have liked to go a step further. She would have preferred it to be said: create a European asylum influx, because then you can tell people which country they should go to, and that way you prevent people from going to asylum shopping. Last week I had a discussion about this with Geert Wilders, who was right to make a point about it. So you need to look at this integrated, coherently.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u139	The long-term perspective of the cabinet is clear: reception in the region and the creation of safe places. This cannot be achieved from today to tomorrow. In fact, I expect we won't be ready in five or ten years. At the same time, there is talk of redistribution in Europe, but what are we doing in the meantime? In the meantime, before there are really safe places where people can be taken care of, people will continue to come in those crappy boats, which the Prime Minister says: we have to offer solutions, we have to deal with that. What are we doing in the medium term? What do we do in the meantime? The cabinet letter refers to a resettlement policy through UNHCR, i.e. through the United Nations. The crux is that no number is mentioned. There is no record of how many people we would like to take up through that programme. If the Prime Minister is really concerned that fewer people are getting into those boats, how many are we going to resettle through the United Nations?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u140	This is linked to a successful policy for safe places in the region in such a way that, on the basis of the safe third country criterion, it can be said to people that their application is inadmissible. When that's done, you're gonna need an overpressure valve, excuse the word. You remember that horrible term. He didn't come from Diederik Samsom, but I made the joke: "That's what you get when you sit in a cabinet with betas." I saw later in a television broadcast that Mr Pechtold also tasted the word on the tongue; I believe in One Today. Then you need the pressure relief valve. You will need this in that situation if you have managed to ensure that there is safe care and that you can say to people: under the safe third country criterion, your application is not admissible. This includes a resolution program.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u141	Let's get back to making it small. Is the Prime Minister really trying to claim that resettlement or resettlement is not necessary at the moment? Is he saying that this doesn't need to be done until there are good shelters? The situation in Turkey, Lebanon and Jordan is appalling. We should be relocating by now. Is the Prime Minister really saying that it is not really necessary for us to remove children, sick people, women and people in need of help from those camps?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u142	The discussion on the 40,000 also provides for a limited resolution. I would like to take a different view here, namely that we are currently dealing with a phase of uncontrolled resolution. That's what the big influx shows. I can assume that GroenLinks is not in favour of starting additional programmes on top of that? Let us first try to manage the existing asylum influx while at the same time ensuring that we outline a perspective for the slightly longer term. I do not understand Mr Klaver saying that, on top of what Europe has decided so far, there is a resolution programme for 20 000 people. I did not want to mention numbers just now in response to Mr Van Klaveren, but you will come to the question of the strength of society.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u143	Nice try, but now back to the point. The UNHCR resettlement programme is not new; it is an existing instrument. I'm not suggesting anything new. In fact, the cabinet writes about this in its letter, but it refuses to add any consequence to it. It refuses to answer the question of how many people we want to resettle at the moment, people who are now living in camps or elsewhere in miserable conditions and who are trying to escape those conditions by getting into those boats. One way of ensuring that people stop getting into those boats, that children no longer have to risk crossing, is the use of an existing instrument, which is a terrible word, namely the United Nations resettlement programme. So don't tell me, Prime Minister, that I want all these extra things or new things. This is an existing policy and you should be clear about the government's commitment in this regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u144	I didn't mean to upset Mr. Klaver. I honestly tried to answer him and I'll try that again. Let me sort it out. In the letter we write about resolution as an instrument that we can use in the event of the successful implementation of our policy for the longer term, including the safe third country criterion and the therefore not being able to declare asylum applications admissible. That's what the letter says. There is also an existing programme, and that has long been dealt with in European decision-making; the Netherlands participates in it, which was decided months ago. There are currently no proposals to take new initiatives, because the whole of Europe is currently dealing with a huge uncontrolled resolution, if I may put it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u145	I would almost say that this is a clear answer, but I am trying to make it clear that the Prime Minister says that we will do nothing and nothing extra with regard to the United Nations resettlement programme. Until we have really succeeded in creating safe ports in the region, people are simply forced to get into those boats. Because we can't agree here. We do not dare to agree here that there are also safe ways to bring people here. It is cynical that people who want to flee are now forced to pay €1,000 per person to a smuggler instead of just getting on a plane to get here. We say: first, do some kind of six-camp, and if you survive that, you're welcome to Europe and we're going to resettle you. That's cynical.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u146	Mr. Pechtold also wants to interrupt, I see. We can also send the Prime Minister his text.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u147	I don't mind, Mr. Chairman. It's not my place to compliment, but I'll do it anyway. I was just going to say to the Chamber that, because of the pleasant exchange of views, I was able to answer all the questions I wished to answer, with the exception of one question, namely that of the group chairman of the largest government party. I don't want to get into a fight with that, so I'd like to answer that question. Then I think I've answered all the questions. That question was about the duration of the residence permit asylum. Mr Zijlstra asked this question yesterday. If an asylum permit is granted for five years, but within those five years the situation changes so that there is no more ground for asylum protection in the Netherlands, that permit may also be withdrawn within five years. That's the legal system. When the starting point is that asylum permits are no longer granted for five years, but standard for one year, the workload for the IND is greatly increased for all kinds of reasons. If the security situation in a country has improved sufficiently, the IND may withdraw the residence permit of status holders from that country. If that occurs, the IND will set up a project for this purpose. A recent example of this is Côte d'Ivoire. I do not know if this was mentioned yesterday in the debate, but I think I heard it somewhere. In addition, of course, residence permits are also withdrawn on individual grounds. That is my answer to Mr Zijlstra's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u148	Mr Pechtold, shall we first allow Mr Zijlstra to intervene on this point? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u149	That's a clear answer. So the implicit message is that we don't let people with a five-year licence down for five years if we realise those safe regions. We will then help them to return as soon as possible to their own region, to their own surroundings, to that safe haven.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u150	That's standing policy of the IND.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u151	I have a question in the context of the solutions, so that we can at least try to deal with this problem. We have the very long term of the safe regions. We have the short term of redistribution. After this redistribution, something must also be done to keep people meaningfully occupied. Some will need to integrate and be able to take language courses. A number of years ago, these budgets were drastically cut back. The big cities are about to have these problems. People get a house assigned. People need to be able to participate meaningfully in this society. What does the Cabinet intend to do in this area?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u152	We intend to bring this about and to do so as much as possible within the existing structures. I think this is the insight of the past few years. I teach two hours a week at a school myself. This school has one branch for newcomers. They get 18 hours of Dutch in the week and then they get some general education too, at least when they are old enough for that. Usually it starts at vmbo level. It is then terribly nice to notice how the brain has evolved, to see if they should stay on the vmbo or be smart enough for Havo or higher. In the beginning, because of the language barrier, this can often not be established properly. This is actually well-defined in existing education and in existing structures. Of course, there are also pots and jars for special policy. The strength is that we are trying to integrate this as much as possible into existing policies.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u153	We agree on this, but also look at the figures of recent years. Those who really settle in have three years to pass the exam. Minister Asscher has sent the figures to the Chamber. The 2013 group should be there by now, but 16% of them have been successful. I think that's far too little. I think acceptance is one of the most important things. There is unrest in the asylum-seekers' centres. Of course, that's perfectly normal, but we shouldn't have any unrest once people get here. There must therefore be language courses and they must be able to do so. I would like to make a commitment from the Cabinet............................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u154	The integration of people who are allowed to stay here is, of course, important, as I said earlier. They need to get to work. Moreover, the Minister for Social Affairs is still talking to the municipalities to see how we deal with this in a sensible way, as the influx increases. That's all part of it. You have to map the whole chain in that respect. No doubt that this is put back in all sorts of places.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u155	I think that is an important step for this moment of the General Political Reviews. If things change, are needs and if municipalities need to be seduced, the cabinet is therefore prepared not to be too tight now. A municipality such as The Hague can still get some support in that regard. 'Cause I really think it's penny wise, pound foolish, and we're gonna have a much bigger problem in those cities right now, when we can get people to join us. I would like to remind the Prime Minister of this, as I told him yesterday: let us look at it a little more positively. Look what's coming from Syria. The Prime Minister's acting like it's all vmbo, but there's some damn dentists between people we can use high and low in this society.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u156	No, the example I've outlined is children 11, 12 years of age. There's a lot of grown-ups coming here, too. Syria is a middle income country. Like Iraq, it is a country with a very good education system. Now I assume it will not work properly, but until a few years ago it had a very well-functioning education system. People who come from and are allowed to stay here, of course, you want to have relevant work in this cooperation as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u157	That is, of course, a justified point. The moment we know which group of people can stay here, you need resources to make sure the integration is done properly. I understand that the Minister indicates that this is now difficult to estimate, but will he undertake to send a clear letter to the Chamber for the budgetary treatment of Social Affairs on how he intends to do so, what budgets are needed for it, whether they are available and, if not, where he will get it from? Because over the past few years, those budgets have almost completely been cut off. We know it takes more than that to do this in a decent way. Then the Chamber also has a right to know what the cabinet thinks about it. So can the Prime Minister promise a letter for the budgetary treatment of Social Affairs?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u158	I will come back with the commitment I just made to Mr Pechtold. I think it's better. Otherwise, we go back to being very classical: there is a problem and we have to get money right away. Maybe we should; I don't know. We think that a lot can be done by sitting at the table with the congregations and discussing how to deal with the higher influx and, if people are allowed to stay, how to integrate them in a decent way. That conversation is taking place. I have just said to Mr Pechtold that, of course, we will report back to the Chamber on this. But I want to prevent us from coming up with a classic letter that says: the numbers are now as follows and that includes this and this budget. If we do that, the talks with the congregations will be about that again. I would like to have a conversation in which these municipalities do not come to The Hague with an open scholarship and ask if they can have money, but that they simply say that they feel a great responsibility. That is not necessary, because they are very motivated. So I have a lot of faith in that conversation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u159	Of course, the cabinet talks with the municipalities where this is to be carried out, but one does not have to bite the other. It is important in the budgetary treatment of Social Affairs because the Chamber has a controlling role and we believe that it should be done properly. Those talks are already going on and the budget is in a few weeks' time. It is useful if we know what the cabinet's commitment is, what came out of these talks and whether resources should be raised. That might be possible, but the Cabinet will know in a few weeks after these talks. Put it on paper and then we can really talk about it in the Chamber when we discuss the budget for Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u160	I don't want to rule it out, but I'd like to cut through the automatism of extra resources. That is why I am sticking to the answer to Mr Pechtold's question. I think that is what I am doing to Mr Roemer. The Chamber receives information on how these talks are going to be conducted and on how government and municipalities work positively together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u161	So that is what we will get for dealing with the Social Affairs budget, I presume.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u162	I see the Minister of Social Affairs nodding very carefully yes. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u163	On this point, last week in the Chamber, a motion was adopted asking for consideration to be given to how to better integrate refugees and to release funds for this purpose, including the request to the Chamber to report on this before the Social Affairs budget is discussed. I therefore assume that not only is there a cautious nodding but that it just happens. I would like to draw attention to another point, which concerns the refugee children who come here and who need proper education. In the spring we discussed the funding of refugee children in schools with the Secretary of State for Education. There were problems back then. The influx has only gotten bigger. More refugee children have come here. What is the government doing to ensure that schools have sufficient resources to accommodate these children? These resources are not only needed for an extra table in the classroom; they are children who also need extra guidance and sometimes suffer from trauma. In what way will the cabinet respond to the schools in this regard?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u164	They're getting extra funding. I'm looking at the Secretary of State for Education. I hadn't prepared this, but they're getting extra funding. I assume this is also included in the normal model of estimation. So that's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u165	Before I rob the Prime Minister with this: I had just asked this in my speech yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u166	Fuck, I don't have an answer here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u167	Education will be discussed later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u168	But it's not in there either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u169	Then perhaps you can ask your question again, Mr Klaver, so that you can get an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u170	I know the system, Mr. Chairman. It is indeed in the current funding. However, the debate we had in spring revealed that this funding was not sufficient last year. Looking at the current influx, that funding will also not be sufficient for next year, I'm afraid. There were problems last year. The influx is bigger now. My question, therefore, is how do we ensure that these schools are able to take care of these children. That is not in the commitment of teachers but in the lack of resources.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u171	I have just heard in detail with the Secretary of State for Education and he has informed me that this funding is for each other. I would suggest that we discuss this further when dealing with the education budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u172	If that funding is in place and there are apparently agreements about it, then I would like to get it to the Chamber by hand. I am getting signals from education that this is not at all done yet, but if it turns out to be settled, I would like those appointments to go to the Chamber. I understand that the Prime Minister can't do this live right now, but I assume that during this APB there will be a letter about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u173	I'm getting very reassuring signals from the Secretary of State of that department. In my second term, I will give an explanation of your question. At least that question wasn't in today's set. So we just missed your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u174	But in today's second set it will be discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u175	In the second set, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u176	You will return to it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u177	Yeah, absolutely. And it looks like it's gonna be okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u178	What kind of a madhouse is this place? We have been talking for 20 minutes about extra money for shelter, extra money for education, extra money for integration of people who should not be here. Why doesn't the Prime Minister tell all those left-wing politicians here in the Chamber: we're not going to do that, we're going to spend those billions on the Dutch, we're going to spend those billions on the asylum seekers, we're going to spend those billions on the elderly in the Netherlands, we're not going to close the nursing homes, we're going to make sure that the pensions of the Dutch can be indexed, we're going to get people a decent purchasing power, we're going to get them a rental house soon? That's what you're here for. And if you don't, you're gonna have to quit for that reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u179	I had already been asked by Mr Wilders to hold elections and therefore not to do anything in the next four months and to leave the whole problem. That was his suggestion. I thought that was a bizarre proposal, because it does not seem to me to solve the problem. What Mr Wilders is doing is classic. He may also create a contradiction for the viewers at home between people in a nursing home or people who otherwise have to deal with the fact that we as a government need to reform and perhaps experience the consequences of it and the fact that as a civilized and decent country you also have to deal with this kind of international tension and its impact on our society. That is the issue we are facing. I myself, and I think everyone feels, of course, that this is a big problem that we have to solve. We have a special responsibility in this because we, as politicians and certainly the cabinet as the executive, are able to take action. That's what we're gonna take. That's the way it's supposed to be. That's decent governance. To identify problems, make an analysis and, based on this analysis, make choices in scarcity and then implement them. That is what we do for the short term, and that is what we do for the longer term, Mr Wilders. It's called taking responsibility. It's called as a politician not using the Lower House as a place where you're shouting, but as a place to solve people's problems. And that is what this cabinet is doing, and you might want to take an example.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u180	Do you know what decent administration is? Decent governance is choosing your own people, taking care of your own people. It is not a decent administration to give billions to asylum seekers and to marble the elderly from the nursing home. It is not a decent administration to answer yes to extra money for integration while the Dutch do not even get their pension indexed. It is not a decent administration to help the entire asylum industry to create additional jobs, while we still have 600,000 unemployed in the Netherlands. That's not a decent administration. That's maladministration. You must stand up for the Dutch, not for the asylum seeker. If you do not, you no longer represent the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u181	Mr Wilder's debate is also interesting, which creates a contradiction between older people who are concerned about austerity or older people who are concerned about their purchasing power, and other groups who are concerned about the fact that we need to make necessary adjustments in this country in order to keep all these facilities stable in the long term, while at the same time suggesting that you can solve this problem with a magic wand. Actually, he says, "I can fix it with a magic wand." That wand, as I say to Mr Wilders, through you, Madam President, is not there. He knows damn well, because he's been running this thing for 25 years. However, he has an interest in raising that suggestion. So I understand the concerns. I have said many times in the debate that Mr Wilders and I are pulling the strings on the same side when it comes to asylum shopping in Europe, to curb the influx into Europe to ensure that those terrible smugglers do not send these boats here. We are simply in agreement on this. However, this is not an issue that solves overnight with a simple magic wand. And that suggests... it's okay, we live in a free country, Mr. Wilders has freedom of speech and long ago decided to use it as much as possible. That's totally open to him. It is, however, very important for us to reconcile this with each other here. I'm ready for the Defense and International Affairs chapter now. A few questions have been asked about this, including whether the reinforcement of the armed forces should also be seen in a multiannual perspective. The answer to that question is yes. With the current intensification, an important step forward has been taken. At present, we do not have any opportunity within the state budget to make any further choices in the service of Defence. However, depending on developments in the international security situation and the financial possibilities available, the cabinet is still looking forward to further steps. We also informed the Chamber in the letter of 19 June. What we are doing now is strengthening the support units of the armed forces, a targeted reinforcement of the fighting units and a replacement of necessary capacity. Suggestions have been made for additional investments now, including from the Dutch Good Growth Fund. The problem is that this is actually one-off money. This fund is revolved again and is of great importance for the business community in the Netherlands and, by the way, in Africa. It leads to many jobs there, which in turn is important for our economy and certainly also for the countries where these jobs are created. It is therefore sustainable. So the resources are not always re-usable if you use them now to cover the defence efforts that the CDA would like to do extra now. So that coverage is not appropriate, if I may put it that way. I think that Mr Buma and the cabinet agree that this is an important issue. That is why there is also a huge increase in funding and that the ambitions, depending on the international security situation and the financial resources available, are further extended. I also see Mr Van der Staaij, whose motion is actually indirectly on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u182	That's right. It is indeed a good thing that a first implementation of last year's motion was carried out, which briefly states: ensure a good plan and add money. However, does the Prime Minister also recognise that we are not yet there with this extra money planned for the coming years, which is now in the books?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u183	I have to give a nuanced answer to that. I also think it is right to do so, also in the direction of Mr Van der Staaij. That's what he expects from me. This reinforcement of the armed forces takes place in a multiannual perspective. That is quite clear. We also think that we are taking a big step here. At the same time, we must also be honest. There is now no room within the national budget to take further steps. We will have to look at two things at the same time in the coming period. What scope is there in the rich budget, including in relation to other priorities? I just told Mr Wilders. Our profession is to make choices in scarcity. There's not unlimited money. So the question is what scope is there for further intensification in the national budget for years to come, and the question is at the same time what the international security situation is and what demands it makes in particular for the armed forces.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u184	Does the Prime Minister also say that it will not be enough to meet the challenges facing the armed forces, even with the rise in the next few years? We are, of course, returning to major cuts. The pang-pang stories have been mentioned enough, but we are now at a low point in the availability and perseverance of the troops.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u185	You can now see that you are working step by step to improve the operational readiness, employability and strength of the armed forces. They are getting more and more improved. When I say that I see this in a multi-annual perspective, it actually shows that there is a possibility that this will also depend on the way in which the international security situation develops. I am quite sure that this will depend on the available financial space and the choices we have to make between all kinds of priorities. Mr Van der Staaij's motion is an important guideline for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u186	The Prime Minister was right to say that the extra effort is important. The CDA appreciates that effort. That's what I want to start with. At the same time, we cannot ignore the fact that the armed forces still have a very serious acute problem at the moment, such as the exercises for which there is no money. The basic work the soldier has to do can't be done. That's where the big problem lies. So before we get to a better employability at all, we have an acute problem; hence the CDA's demand to fill the gaps in the short term. So I'm talking about 2016. After that, it's already coming up. For the longer term too, the CDA does indeed want more. The Prime Minister says, however, that there is no money. Of course, that's a discussion you can have endlessly, because there's a lot of money, but what do you spend it on? I also understand that the Prime Minister has hesitation in covering a party.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u187	Well, um...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u188	I don't mean that negative, but the Prime Minister is negative about the cover I'm providing. I think it's possible, because it's a one-time thing. I'll admit that, but at the same time, there's gonna be more money next year, so you bridge. So I call on the cabinet to look at other money and possibly talk about other cover, so that the acute problem with the soldiers on the ground gets less, there are normal trainings, one can normally do one's job, not like now in a military force that is wing lamb and doesn't need to cut the reserve any further. Those are things for the moment; hence my question about the acute problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u189	We also want to address these short-term problems, the acute problem. There is now 220 million available in the shorter term. That's up to 345 million, so I say out of my head. All this is necessary to ensure that a number of shorter-term problems are tackled while at the same time improving employability and capacity for action is more structurally. Then, of course, you can have the discussion of size: would you like more? Then the Van der Staaij motion comes back into view. I have just said that you always have the question of what the financial area is and what other policy priorities are at the time. The cabinet will then have to decide on that. That's one point. Another issue, specifically for the defence sector and regardless of the underlying issue, is how the international security situation develops. We're all gonna see about that. So I think Mr Buma and I agree. He would only like to do a little more in the short term. I question the immediate need to do so and the need to cover it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u190	That's where the discussion is. My point is that in the short term the need is very high and that we will have to move towards a strong force in the long term. The cabinet is taking steps. Appreciate the CDA. We shall come back to the debate on the short term and the way in which we can meet the greatest need. I am thinking of restricting reserves, which is extremely sad if it were to happen. We need to make sure that's not necessary. We should not go for a further reduction, but rather go up a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u191	I see a completely different problem with the Defense Department, and that's the JSF. This budget is suddenly dealing with the problem of currency. All of a sudden, the dollar's doing well. Now, of course, we do not know what that will be like by then, but it strikes me that it is now being included in the defence budget, which is still against the agreements we have made.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u192	That is a bit of a technical issue that has to do with exchange rates. Those planes are paid in dollars. Due to the rise in the dollar exchange rate against the euro, the total package of JSFs will cost about half a billion more. This has nothing to do with more development costs or more expensive production; none of that is happening. If you bought all the aircraft now, Mr. Pechtold would have a point. Then you're just half a billion short, but that's not the issue. The first instalment of eight devices will be paid in 2019. Then they come in gradually. That exchange rate will have changed a hundred times by then, and that is why there is no need for adjustment now. What we do do is signal with a small neon light that you would have a problem if you had to deal with them all now. Once again, that is not the issue, because we are dealing with instalments. We are so far beyond that that a completely new situation may have arisen in the euro-dollar exchange rate ratio.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u193	I think it is not a technical issue, but a political one. D66 has always questioned whether it was wise to purchase them now, while operating costs and maintenance costs are still unclear. We have agreed that exchange rates cannot lead to additional budgets. In fact, in the progress report, the cabinet agreement states that the budget is not compensated for exchange rates. This is stated in the progress report, which is not yet that old, and also in the 2014 Kamerbrief. Exchange rates should be covered within the task-setting budget. There is a big problem, because we can now, I believe, buy 37, but 37 was the absolute minimum to be operational. So I do not foresee a technical problem, but simply a political problem when the Prime Minister's predictions about our dollar-euro rates are a little too optimistic.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u194	So I don't see that, simply because we buy the first eight devices in 2019. I know that Mr Pechtold wants to think about the long term, but here we are in the very long term. We will not pay for the last aircraft until 2023. Prick me, but someone who knows what the euro-dollar rate is in 2023 is handsome. You're not gonna make any adjustments for that. You don't, but you put in the budget neatly that you would have this problem if you bought them all now. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Wij hebben veel problemen op ons bord liggen — die gaan wij tijdens deze Algemene Beschouwingen ook allemaal uitboren — en mijn voorzichtige stelling is dat dit nu geen acuut probleem is.]] I see that I have not convinced Mr Pechtold.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u195	Mr. Pechtold, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u196	The PvdA has landed on: after a number of turns, more agile than the device itself, let's do it. It has been suggested that we can buy 37 devices for about 4.5 billion. I notice that the Minister for Defence of the VVD is now putting in her budget that it could be half a billion more expensive. That means either fewer aircraft or more. Somewhere things are not technically wrong, but politically wrong. In my opinion, this is an adventure that we should not have entered into in 2023, but certainly now. We should have waited until those things were done. Then we could have just bought them off the shelf.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u197	As a result, we were not involved in development and our business had not benefited. Good, then you'll lose the money and you'll miss out on all those positive things. I don't think that's wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u198	For half a billion more, you can create a lot of jobs, you can do a lot more, you can buy from those things, and you can create a lot of jobs by cutting taxes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u199	I think Mr Pechtold was an auctioneer and not an investment banker. I notice that, because he already knows how to predict the euro-dollar exchange rate in 2019. Thus the historian...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u200	The peanut butter salesman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u201	I admit that, but for peanut butter, you still need some sense of the euro-dollar rate. Peanuts are different from paintings.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u202	Smooth to the bottom.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u203	That's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u204	I'd like to go back to the defense budget. There's a little extra money now. I think the Prime Minister will remember the period in which he has been draconianally cutting back on Defense. Those cuts from Rutte I still sound in a pretty firm way. With that little bit of money that comes up now, too, we should be pleased that this hole is still not closed. In August there was some discussion about the fact that Defence had to take action again because of the budgets by making less use of the 3,600 reservists, who were there. At that time, a statement was made by the Minister of Defence in that discussion: the deployment of the armed forces is subject to substantial restrictions. Is the money that is now being added sufficient to actually eliminate these fundamental constraints?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u205	To begin with, no matter how much money you spend in Defense, you will always have substantial limitations on the ultimate ambitions. It always is. What to ask is whether there is enough money for the Dutch ambitions both in the field of national security tasks and our international contributions to peacekeeping operations, plus all other important tasks that Defence carries out. We believe that this additional investment will enable us to deal with a large number of issues in a good way. However, I have already said that it may well be that more is needed in the future, given the international security situation and the underlying ambitions, which is a reaction to Mr Van der Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Saaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Saaij-Saaij-Saaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Sa-Sa-Sa-Sa-Sa-Sa-Sa-Sa-Sa-Sa-Sa-Sta-Sa-Sta-Sta-Sa-Sta-Sta-Sta-Sta-Sa-Sta-Sta-Sta-Sta-Sta-Sta-Sa-Sta-Sta-Sta-Sta-Sta-Sta-Sta-Sta-Sa
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u206	I'm not at all concerned with new ambitions. I am concerned about the fact that there has been a draconian austerity under Rutte I, which has been incredibly hard on the Defense Department, which has resulted in substantial restrictions. Can the Prime Minister guarantee that operational employability and readiness are guaranteed with the budget now being sent to us, with the amounts included in it for defence?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u207	They are greatly improved. This brings them to a level that can fulfil its tasks, but there are always far-reaching ambitions. But it's very difficult to give an absolute answer to this. As I said, there is never enough for all the ambitions you have, but that applies to all the policy areas in the cabinet. With this important intensification, you will make sure that you improve the case on all fronts. Of course, the ambitions always go further, but then you get to a second stage where you have to rebalance the international security policy and the other policy choices that always lie ahead. At the moment, that's the situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u208	The Prime Minister is running away for my question. I am not talking about new ambitions, although of course they may arise again. The Prime Minister has now sent this budget to the Chamber. At last some money has been added, but in the budget a huge crater has been struck in the previous period, which has resulted in substantial restrictions on the defence sector and huge cuts. This has also had an impact on equipment. My question is this: I just want to have a clear answer to this question: whether operational employability and readiness are guaranteed. The Prime Minister must be able to answer that from his position in the cabinet with the great responsibility it bears for our security.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u209	Let me answer the question in reverse. If we were to say that there is currently too little money for the defence industry to provide that guarantee, then we should add money now. Mr Slob is quite right about that. That's one. But then there is always the question of how the security situation develops. That is why I can never separate that from what is now needed in conjunction with international missions, where an additional 60 million goes. So I try to conduct that debate "informed" with Mr Slob. We believe that with this intensification we are able to bring Defence to a level where operational readiness, employability and capacity for action are significantly improved, thereby ensuring that there are also guarantees. At the same time, if he would honestly ask me if you are done with that and if that is enough, then I say that we should have that debate together, also in the light of the international security situation, against the background of Mr Van der Staaij's motion. But that debate is always held in a cabinet, in a coalition, in the light of all kinds of other policy priorities. Mr Slob knows that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u210	We must face the members of our armed forces and be able to say to them: with what we do for you, we therefore guarantee that you can carry out the tasks that lie with you properly. Then we know that a huge hole has been struck and we know that it has rammed on all sides, with all the consequences of that. I hear you now take over the word "guarantees." I'm glad, because we should be ashamed if we didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u211	Mr Pechtold asked a question about the European budget and the Multiannual Financial Framework, the Multiennial Financial Framework. For the sake of clarity, I refer to previous debates on this subject. I know that's a big irritation from him and me, and actually from the whole cabinet. This framework has a very strange system of seven years and 908 billion, which has been invested up to 2020. I've been on for two nights. In the end, it was important to us that that amount did not increase further and that we kept our billion. It's all worked out. But in there, it's full of hobbyism and things that add little to a modern economy. I recognize and share Mr Pechtold's entire ambition. Then, of course, what are you going to do about it? Mr Pechtold knows that the Presidency conference in January is going to play an important role in detaching ideas on this issue. I have already told him that the real debate on the MFF is not in our Presidency; that is really planned for later. There will be a mid-term review, after which we will get the lead to the 2020 debate. But I can really say to Mr Pechtold that we share the ambition. I know that he would like us to bring the whole European Council to the Netherlands. I have been doing this work for five years and we have never held a European Council in a Member State. They used to be, then they went on a bike through Amsterdam under Wim Kok. But that's not anymore. Since Lisbon, the European Council has always been in Brussels. But that is where the discussion comes back. Let us not try to outdo each other, we simply agree on the importance of this point. Minister Koenders has promised the Chamber a letter in which the Cabinet addresses the greatest opportunities for reform in the MFF and the Dutch proposals for a transparent fiscal system and better predictable payments. That letter will be coming soon, for the budget handling of Foreign Affairs. I believe I have answered all the questions on foreign policy. Unless someone jumps up mad right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-3.u212	No, that's not the case. Before we move on to the next block, we're gonna suspend for lunch. Then we start with the arrangement of work. I advise you not to order a bouncer!
