ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-4.u1	Madam President. Anti-Semitism is a multifaceted monster. This weekend, the Utrecht-Ajax competition took the form of horrible anti-Semitic choirs. The Chamber regularly talks about anti-Semitism. The Christian Union Group recently held a round table on this subject. How disgusting is it when you hear what's being called at this weekend's game? Ajax's spokesperson said he was at the stadium and he heard choirs during the game. There is a wonderful protocol at the KNVB that says you can stop a game in such a case. Why didn't that happen? If they are audible, why didn't they take immediate action? The prosecution of the KNVB may also initiate a preliminary investigation immediately. Why didn't that happen right away? In the meantime, Utrecht has taken action. They've issued a statement apologizing and saying they'll consult with the police and the D.A. That's good. That is good news, but what exactly is the status of it and is it sufficient? Is the Minister prepared to consult with the KNVB to ensure that the protocol that is in place is not just a piece of paper but that it is actually respected, and that this horrible evil, this hurtful lick-on-piece policy is taking place?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by thanking Mr Segers for giving me the opportunity to make my maiden speech in your Chamber. It's just a pity that it's such a distasteful subject that I'm allowed to appear here. As Minister of Security and Justice, I begin by stressing that the swearing choirs, as we heard from FC Utrecht-Ajax this weekend, are absolutely unacceptable. I therefore condemn any form of anti-Semitism, racism and homophobia and all the spokesmen who pay attention to it. I therefore believe that those who have committed this should be treated firmly. In the meantime, I have also understood that the Public Prosecutor's Office has opened an investigation and that a report has been made of this oral choir. That notification will be involved in the investigation of the Public Prosecutor's Office. However, it is a fact that the approach to this type of choir is primarily a local issue; that is what Mr Segers said. In that context, I understand from the municipality of Utrecht that a meeting of the so-called local partners with the club is taking place today to discuss how they intend to tackle this incident. I think Mr Segers knows that the national policy is that anti-Semitic, homophobic, racist and otherwise discriminatory spokesmen should be addressed. Mr Segers also pointed out that there is a protocol. I also wonder why this protocol was not put into effect immediately in order to stop the competition. That would have been possible. That decision could have been taken by the referee himself. It seems that those who at that time were in charge of the competition in the so-called command room did not know about the choir in good time. That seems to be the reason why no action has been taken. This does not mean that all kinds of action cannot be taken. An investigation has been started to see if its perpetrators can obtain a stadium ban, both from the club and from the KNVB. The Public Prosecutor's Office may also decide to prosecute. In any case, I assume that the local partners will take all possible action. If necessary, I will understand with the KNVB, to answer Mr Segers' final point, that there can be adequate and rapid intervention on this point within the responsibility of the club and the KNVB itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-4.u3	The Minister says: if necessary I will consult with the KNVB. That's really skinny. Why doesn't he just consult with the KNVB? There was an interim action against ADO in 2011, which also covered those terrible anti-Semitic choirs. At that time it was confirmed that the club is the lead actor. That didn't happen while Ajax's spokesperson says he heard. So it's been audible at the stadium. Will the Minister consult with the KNVB, so that the clubs and referees act directly when there are spokesmen? Does he really want to be consulted with the KNVB, so that this protocol does not remain a piece of paper but is respected?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-4.u4	The intention of my comment was to remind the KNVB of that protocol. I also assume that if one had heard it in the right place, action would have been taken. Once again, I fully agree with Mr Segers that this kind of text does not belong in our society, especially in a football match.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-4.u5	I have one last question. This is not from today or yesterday; this happens more often. They're horrible choirs. It's terrifying when you hear those texts and see them printed. They are very offensive and also threatening to the Jewish community. How can we ensure that those responsible for this are arrested and punished, if necessary with a stadium ban? If the new football law is adopted, it can be done for a much longer period than until recently. How do we ensure that those who are guilty of this are actually punished?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-4.u6	Mr Segers' answer to that question is the simplest. We need to end all the measures we've taken. I agree with Mr Segers that this must be done. The KNVB can take action through the clubs and apply disciplinary law, the clubs can take action themselves, the referee can take action and the Public Prosecutor can take action. The latter is in any case under way and the rest is being discussed at the moment. I have every confidence in this respect too, albeit as Mr Segers said in this case, that every effort is being made to bring those responsible to order and to allow them to bear that responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-4.u7	The final question is whether the Minister is prepared to tell us, once he has had the consultation with the KNVB, how the protocol will be respected from now on, that we are really doing everything we can to prevent these terrible choirs and that immediate action will be taken when they take place. Is the Minister prepared to inform us about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-4.u8	I can be brief about that: I am prepared to do so. I will also mention in the same letter why adequate measures were not taken during the competition.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-4.u9	Hopefully we'll get that letter soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-4.u10	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-4.u11	It is right that today we are discussing these horrible and disgusting anti-Semitic choirs that were heard during that competition. My question to the Minister concerns the criminal law approach. It is incredibly important not only for action to be taken, but also for timely and rapid action to be taken. Does the Minister wish to promote that, if there are prosecutions, they will be used as quickly as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-4.u12	Mr Van der Staaij knows better than anyone that it is not appropriate for me as a minister to interfere directly with an individual investigation by the Public Prosecutor's Office, but I would point out the simple fact that the Public Prosecutor's Office has already made this announcement, even without a declaration. Moreover, the Public Prosecutor's Office does request declarations and would also like witnesses to come forward. So let me repeat here, also on behalf of the Public Prosecutor's Office, that we are looking for witnesses and that we would also like to see this possible criminal offence reported. But it's not up to me to make sure the D.A. does everything it has to do. I always assume that the Public Prosecutor will do exactly what he has to do, namely to conduct an investigation and, where necessary and where possible, to investigate and prosecute.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-4.u13	Let us be clear that this kind of hateful criminals are disrupting society and affecting the dignity of people. I heard the minister say the D.A.'s office is conducting an investigation. I am pleased with that, because it has not been reflected in the reports so far. The Minister also stated that this is a local matter. Isn't discrimination and this kind of hate speech a spearhead of the Public Prosecutor's Office? I miss every time the D.A. on its own, so before there's anything in the paper at all or before there's any parliamentary questions filed, I'm gonna use an offensive to track down, pick up and lock up these hateful criminals. That is what we should be reacting to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-4.u14	I thank Mr Marcouch for his question. I would suggest first of all that my assessment is that, if speaking choirs during a football match lead to immediate action being taken on the football game itself, that is, of course, the first step to ensure that this does not happen anymore. In general, you go to a football game to enjoy it in a certain form, albeit in this case in this distasteful form. That should be the first step. Then in the long run, the D.A.'s office may not be needed at all. If the state's attorney's office is needed, it'll do whatever it has to do. That was also the case in this case, because the Public Prosecutor's Office, shortly before I appeared here, independently confirmed that the investigation will be carried out. For this reason, it also invited the applicant to file a report and asked whether any witnesses could come forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-4.u15	Thank you for your answers and for coming to the Chamber. We're a little rafty. We are therefore waiting for the Minister of Education, who has been invited to the next question. Oh, she's coming in now. We can move on.
