ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u1	I would like to welcome all those present, in particular the Minister of Finance and the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and the Environment. Nine speakers have come forward. The speaking time per group is six minutes. We have just agreed that every Member of Parliament may intervene with another Member of Parliament no more than three times. One interruption consists of a question and a possible follow-up question. First of all, Mr Van Helvert of the CDA has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u2	Mr. Chairman. Every day all employees of the Dutch Railways are ready for the traveller. Conductors, engineers, cleaning staff: they can't help it that the top of the Dutch Railways has cheated. Also today there will be harsh words about the NS. Those harsh words strike at the top and not at the performance of all dedicated employees. The NS summit cheated on the tender. The cabinet knew it a long time ago. There was a report in the drawer with the NS, with the Minister of Finance, with the Secretary of State of I and M and with the ACM, and no one took out the report. At many times, regional carriers, as well as the Chamber, the Province and the ACM, have spoken, but the cabinet did nothing. Now the director has quit after a spicy conversation with the minister, but that is not the end of the matter. On 10 October 2014, the Maastricht Court ruled in the interim proceedings against the province of Limburg. The judgment clearly shows that the problem lies with the Railway Act, which states that the level playing field between NS and the other carriers is a responsibility of the State. Has the Secretary of State contacted the province as a system responsible in response to this ruling by the judge? Why didn't the Secretary of State take action? At that time it was possible, because the tender had not yet been closed. The Ministry knew that. Does the Secretary of State consider that a court ruling cannot be ignored? On 27 January 2015, the ACM announces to the NS that it intends to condemn NS for breach of the Railway Act and expects this decision to be made public by 6 February at the latest. That is therefore before the award by Limburg. So it was just known back then. If no one had known before, they would have. When, on what date, did the Executive Board of the NS report this to the Secretary of State? That is also the question I am asking the Minister of Finance. When has there been contact between the two directors about this decision of the ACM? What was the product of this consultation? Why didn't the Secretary of State take action and let go of the trial that went wrong? On 8 February 2015, the NS shall block disclosure by making a provisional provision against it. As a result, the province of Limburg could not be informed of the infringements detected by the ACM. When did both regiments know the NS had done this? Why didn't the Secretary of State of I and M and the Minister of Finance intervene after this trick of the NS? In the meantime, when evil had been done, the NS announced that she wanted to abandon the objection. The Ministry knew that Limburg was completing a tender with the party that might have broken the Railway Act. On 10 February, the province of Limburg grants the commission to Abellio. The province still doesn't know about the ACM report. Do the directors share the idea that Limburg's decision would have been different if Limburg had known about the report? On 10 March, Veolia will send a copy of the relevant documents at its disposal to the Secretary of State of I and M and the Minister for Economic Affairs. Veolia reports that the ACM does not publish the decision because the NS opposes it. Two days later, the ACM sends that decision to the Secretary of State and the Minister. But on 19 March, the Secretary of State writes to Veolia a short reply saying that she is displeased that Veolia sent the documents to her. Was the Secretary of State only upset about Veolia's letter or also about the ACM report and the NS? If she was also upset about that, why didn't she share this and leave it with this short note? Why did the Secretary of State keep another ACM report in the deep, deep NS drawer? Are there any other reports on problems in the railways that we should know about? In the meantime, on 28 April 2015, the Chamber asked questions about the Railway Act. The replies show that the State Secretary is aware of the ACM decision and even of the fraud found in the NS subsidiaries. However, it still holds the province responsible for the tender, while the judge has long said something else. It is clear that this was an incorrect assumption from the Secretary of State. It is responsible for the level playing field. Why did the Secretary of State pretend there was nothing wrong? Does the Secretary of State still believe that it is not responsible for the level playing field? On 27 May, the second period of treatment of the Railway Act was. I tabled an amendment together with Mrs De Boer of the VVD to strengthen the position of the ACM. The Secretary of State warned, because she didn't think it was necessary and because there was no reason for anything to go wrong. Why did the Secretary of State discourage that amendment when she knew what had already gone wrong? How is this possible? The Minister of Finance appoints the Supervisory Board of the NS. The Supervisory Board has always been there, but will not take action until the Minister calls on the Executive Board of the NS. How does the Minister assess the functioning of the Supervisory Board? Has there been any contact with the Supervisory Board about this situation? The Minister of Finance speaks in the press of a diseased culture at the Dutch Railways. What are the causes that led him to this ruling? Does it apply to all levels of work or just to the top of the NS? How is the Minister of Finance going to fix this? To sum up: The NS summit has cheated, the cabinet knew about it, the Chamber has often asked for it, and the staff and the province are the victims. The CDA wants the Secretary of State and the Minister to present an actual chronological overview with all the information that came into the ministries before 1 July 2015. The CDA also wants to know what actions have been taken from the ministries at what time. Before the Chamber comes forward with all kinds of solutions, I would first like us to get this right, because this case is not right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u3	I expect the applicant for this debate to say what needs to be done. I hear a very detailed charge about this particular moment, while the CDA has been involved at all times in causing this incredibly complex puzzle around the track in the Netherlands for the last twenty years. Both in the Chamber and in the Cabinet, the CDA played a role. Has this whole debate only been used by Mr Van Helvert to ask the cabinet for a factual account?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u4	I have requested the debate and asked for more speaking time. It's been one minute. In that short time I pushed as much text as possible, by speaking at a very fast pace. That's all I could do. My question for facts is not from this year, but from much earlier. The case of the award of public transport contracts in Limburg, the staff of which have been affected in Limburg and the province, has led to this debate. We want a factual account from the Secretary of State and the Minister so that we, as a representative of the people, can check what has gone wrong here so that we can look forward and never again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u5	So we are having this whole debate because the applicant wants a factual account? In those twenty years, there have been incredibly many investigations and reports on the functioning of the NS and the track. The CDA has also been involved in many different forms. When we came to the Chamber, I assumed that the CDA would come up with something more than the question of a factual account. Is that really all the CDA wants right now? Does the CDA want a factual account and can we go home?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u6	No. If Mrs Van Tongeren has been paying attention, she has heard that I have asked 22 questions. That's more than just a question of facts. I would like to repeat those questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u7	No!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u8	The President says that this is not necessary, but I repeat that I have asked for more than just a factual account.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u9	I too have come to this debate with the expectation that Mr Van Helvert would come up with more, first of all with an excuse. What we now have, market forces on the track, state-owned companies competing with each other, state-owned companies cheating, is the product that we owe to the efforts of the CDA group over the last 20 years. Market forces, competing, suing each other, isn't that what she wanted and what she got? Can Mr Van Helvert comment on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u10	Market forces aren't the problem here. The problem is the double hats and the double interests. That's something else. If we are going to have this debate in this way, we are ignoring the fact that we also want to have a responsibility of the cabinet, because that has a responsibility in this, is the regulator in this, is the concession holder for the main rail network and should monitor how the level playing field is actually maintained.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u11	It's really weird. Of course I have my questions; I will ask them to the cabinet. I would also ask the CDA Group to consider its own role. What we now have, the market forces that no one was waiting for, is partly thanks to the CDA Group. I regret that Mr Van Helvert does not want to dwell on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u12	I would very much like to dwell on that. Looking at what we want for the future, I would like to have many more debates. I am sure that this is not the last debate and that these questions will certainly come forward. First of all, I do not want us to hide in the future, but to look first at what has gone wrong in this case, for which I have requested the debate. The cabinet will therefore have to answer the questions of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u13	Mr Van Helvert says that market forces are not the problem, but I would like to know from him whether the CDA Group is already drawing that conclusion. When I look at all the problems of the past ten years, from the Fyra to this tender, it seems to be all about failed market operation. I understand that Mr Van Helvert first wants to get the facts on the table in this case, but if I...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u14	Shall we do that question first?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u15	The question is whether the CDA Group has already come to the conclusion that it is not a market operation or whether it wants to wait for this debate and then draw conclusions. For us, however, it is at the top of the list that market forces are an important cause of this misery.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u16	I understand Mr Madlener's point. I said that this is not the last debate. As far as I am concerned, the role of the market certainly comes back to another debate. I asked for this debate to be held first and foremost by the cabinet to account for what it did and what it did not do. In the end, that is the role that we have. The Lower House does not set up the NS, but asks the State Secretary and the Minister to answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u17	So the CDA Group does not rule out the possibility that the way in which we organized it on the railways, including market forces, may be the cause of all the problems. That is not what I have just heard Mr Van Helvert say. Oh, thank God.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u18	No, in that respect, I am not ruling out anything at all and I am opening those debates. However, I would say that the double hats are more the problem than the market. We have market forces in the Netherlands in a lot of different places, not just on the track. In a lot of places things are going very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u19	Mr Van Helvert began his speech by saying that there were strong words about the summit of the NS. He then asked a number of questions. We've actually had the answers to that. We have put forward a whole package of factual questions and we have also received answers to them. It only sticks a little. What does Mr Van Helvert think of the role of the NS in this story?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u20	I think I've asked 22 questions; it could be a little more. Mr Klein says that we have already received the answers, but I have not yet received an answer to these questions. Our primary responsibility is to question the Secretary of State and the Minister. That's our role. My group has already said that it is deeply regrettable what the NS has done and that we do not want to do so in the Netherlands. The fact that the NS is cheating in the first place is actually very bad. It is good that Mr Klein is asking for this, because then I can say how horrible I am. Then the NS blocked the report that was made about it and wanted to stop the publication of that report until after the province of Limburg had awarded the award. That's even worse. If they really can't do otherwise...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u21	Thank you. I have heard your answer clearly, so I shall now give the floor to Mr Klein, and then you will have the floor again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u22	So if you think the NS is cheating, I'd like you to point out why the situation is causing the NS to cheat. This is not only in the double hats, but also in the system of tendering and in the division of roles in regional rail transport and the concession for the main network for the NS. Can you go into that? So does that mean that the NS is also cheating because of the system we rigged up with each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u23	I believe that cheating, regardless of the system, is an attitude and a culture. You may want to go all the way back to a state-owned company, but do you have a guarantee that nothing will go wrong? That sounds crazy to me. However, I do not want to have that discussion until later, because I want to ask questions first. Our first task as representatives of the people is to call the rulers to account for what they did and what they did not do. I have just asked many questions about this, and I would like to get an answer to that. I have already said that this is not the last debate or last instance on this subject, and we will always make a firm contribution to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u24	Mr. Chairman. After all the commotion last week, I took the annual report of the NS again this weekend. Here's what's in it. "We (...) encourage everyone to work together to find solutions for the general social interest. (...) If we do it together, there are no win-lose situations anymore, but only win-win." How hard is the contrast with the words of the Minister of Finance: a weakly developed sense of standard, objectionable behaviour, a lack of alertness and unethical and non-standard action. From his letter an image of yellow-blue sun kings is emerging protected by Father State. After all these abuses in Limburg, Vaderje Staat can no longer stand by passively. D66 therefore considers the withdrawal of trust in top man Huges a justified first step. In addition to his own actions, he is responsible for the culture within his organisation, a culture in which 80% of the truth was also the truth. But after Huge's departure, a lot of questions remain. The top man is of course responsible, but where was the supervision of his actions? Where was the Secretary of State of I and M? Where was the board of directors? Where was the Minister of Finance, the owner of NS? Minister Dijsselbloem did not receive the decision of the ACM until 31 May, he says. However, the Telegraaf already released the news on 5 March. On the same day, the Chamber put a debate on the agenda. On March 6, the ACM announced that the NS had broken the Railway Act. If the ACM comes up with that, they're not frivolous accusations. Why didn't the minister do anything? Why didn't the Minister call the NS directly on March 6th? Why did he believe Timo Huges on his blue eyes when he said the NS didn't recognize himself in the decision of the ACM? Wasn't that a little naive? That was March. Then it became April. On April 28, Qbuzz's former top lady said on TV that the NS summit was fully aware of the sham construction with Veolia's employee. In fact, the NS had even encouraged her to conceal the truth. Why didn't the minister do anything then? Why didn't the minister call the NS for clarification? What action has he taken against the Supervisory Board? How am I supposed to reconcile the Minister's passive attitude with his earlier promise? The Minister has repeatedly promised the Chamber that as a shareholder he would ensure that the NS would comply with the law, as we should all do. But the cabinet is sitting on his hands. There is no evidence that the Minister has acted as an active shareholder. Do you? And how? I would also like a reflection of the Minister on the Supervisory Board. Do they keep an active watch? Why doesn't the letter say anything about their role? Now a third director is appointed. It will then suddenly have to ensure that the NS will now comply with the law, while last year's top structure has gone on its heels. The Supervisory Board was closely involved in the drastic revision of the top structure. What does it say about the Supervisory Board? Some of them have been in service for a very long time, and they have missed all these problems? Aren't they part of the cultural problem at the NS? Does the Minister still have faith in these Commissioners and on what basis does he base them? The Secretary of State must ensure that this situation is not at the expense of the traveller. Unfair competition does not seem to me to be in the interests of the traveller, but the Secretary of State remains deafeningly silent. She was given the decision on 12 March. Has she thought at any time: "Oh, dear, this is intense; the NS is breaking the law and the NS summit knows about it, so perhaps I should inform my colleague in the Treasury if the NS summit is calling? Why did the Secretary of State put the ACM report in the desk drawer? Why didn't she call the Minister of Finance, her cabinet colleague and partner in relation to the NS? Why hasn't the Secretary of State done anything for so long? Looking back, like I just did, you do so you can come up with the right solutions. As far as D66 is concerned, three things have to be done. One. The NS urgently needs to clean up and the Supervisory Board should also be looked at. Is the Minister prepared to do so? Two. While all of this is happening, and we all know that it is a journey that will not be ready tomorrow. The cabinet says it has no evidence of irregularities in other concessions. But in Overijssel, Syntus had to threaten an interim order in March because this carrier did not receive information about travellers who did receive the NS. So again there's a lack of clarity. We cannot take a decision on this, but we can say, to be sure, that we are on the spot; do not allow the NS to participate in regional tenders until things are in order. Then we have another situation. Three. The deeper cause of the problems is, of course, the double cap of the NS. The double role of landlord and tenant is impure. That's how you tie the cat to the bacon. Then it's waiting for the next misunderstanding. D66 does not want symptom control, but structural solutions. Divorce the double caps. Bring the stations where NS competes to ProRail. Is the Minister prepared to investigate this? Despite all these misunderstandings, the employees of the NS are committed to the traveller with heart and soul. This must also be very difficult for them, and that is why I wish them every success.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u25	We often debate the railways and passengers in the Chamber. We always say: we put the traveller at the centre, we put the traveller on one. Now I hear Mrs Van Veldhoven from the D66 group here proposing to remove the stations from the NS. Then I wonder what the problem is with the stations. They often look clean. The facilities are in order. The NS manages the stations in a good way. The dividend issued to the State is extracted. We all benefit from that. Can Mrs Van Veldhoven explain to me the problem with the stations?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u26	The problem is that the ACM decision also states that the NS abuses its dominant position at those stations where there is competition in order to squeeze the competitor out of the market. The NS thus violates the Railway Act. That seems to me to be a problem. It's not about all the stations, it's just about the stations where the NS competes with other companies. I agree with Mr Bashir that there is another debate on the other stations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u27	I think we should learn lessons from the last 20 years. It was D66 that took ProRail away from NS, so we got a lot of problems. It was D66 that helped to make the HSL debacle possible in 2000, as a result of which we are still stuck with problems. Now D66 wants to create a new problem, namely removing the stations at NS. My question remains as to what good will it do to the traveller if the stations are removed from NS and then sold, sold, sold or moved elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u28	I note that the SP is okay with NS breaking the law and that the SP sees no reason to do anything in it. The SP is again holding a tirade against market forces. I have looked again at the policy review of the market forces that Parliament has had carried out. One of the conclusions is that tendering has made regional public transport more efficient and that the decentralised lines in the OB barometer score much better than before. So I'm not looking at those lines from a dogma. I see how the traveler appreciates the lines. This valuation has increased since the introduction of the procurement process. Maybe this isn't a good time for the SP, but this is what emerges from the independent investigation. I think we just have a different picture of what the traveller is waiting for. For us, that traveler is central and not the dogma of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u29	Mrs Van Veldhoven may usefully read a small piece of one research, but perhaps she should read the reflection of the First Chamber, in which the last twenty years have been dealt with. Does D66 believe that if a company like NS wants to operate as much as possible, it can be a sharp market player who sails tight on the wind and looks up the edges of the law and, at the same time, as I hear Mrs Van Veldhoven say, can be an honest and generous player? Surely, as Mr Dijsselbloem states in his letter, one expects a state-owned company not to look up the edges of the law and not to use an Irish tax structure? Does Mrs Van Veldhoven really think it's the couple of casual people in the top or middle management or the consultants? Does she really think that it is possible that NS, after these people have been replaced, is suddenly both that sharp market player and the beautiful, responsible state-owned company? Does Mrs. Van Veldhoven still believe in her own fairy tale?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u30	First of all, I would like to comment on this report. I would not call the policy review that we have carried out with each other the first best report. I attach great importance to the conclusions of that report. I am pleased to note that Mrs Van Tongeren and I are actually very close together. We both don't believe that only with a little cultural change can you solve this structural problem. That is why we must do something else. I also think it's not just those few people. In my opinion, there is a structural problem with double caps. I am glad that Mrs Van Tongeren sees that as well. There are two things we can do. We can reward those who cheat by abolishing the game. We can also separate the double caps in the places where they are a problem. This is the case at the stations where NS competes with other providers. It is precisely in the interests of NS that we do not have to discuss this with one hand behind our back. Let's separate the hats on those stations. In this case, NS can make its own offer and other providers can also make their offer. We don't just have to give these stations to a foreign state company. Let us see what is best for the traveller. That's what D66 says.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u31	D66, after supporting all the operations in order to gain market power, has now discovered that this market operation does not coincide with the higher morale that the parent company should have. According to D66, the solution is to reduce even more from NS and NS. However, this will lead to further problems of coordination, chaos and market forces. In that case, contracts must be concluded on who will rent which part of the station. This is now the D66 solution to the problem outlined. GroenLinks has been quite consistent from the beginning.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u32	And what's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u33	I took a run at my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u34	I think you were going to make your point. I'll let you do that later. I ask you now to ask your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u35	Does D66 have any rethinking of the positions taken, because we have been working on this since 1993. I think I hear that there is some rethinking of D66, that really wrong decisions have been made, which are not in the interests of the traveller.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u36	I am going to surprise Mrs Van Tongeren: yes, a decision was taken that was not in the interests of the traveller, namely not to remove the stations where the NS competes with other providers from the NS. This has created a structure of double caps, partly on behalf of Mrs Van Tongeren and Mrs GroenLinks. I therefore hope that we will be able to find her on our side not to fight against symptoms or to reward those who cheat by removing the game, but by structurally adjusting it in a way that is fair to all players and does justice to what the NS has to offer the traveller.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u37	At the end of the argument, D66 asked for an investigation into the removal of stations from NS. The interruptions of just now showed that D66 is heading towards the result that the stations are leaving the NS. Is this the solution? Doesn't D66 see that, if we did that, new problems could arise with which the traveller is not helped, for example in the contractual sphere, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera? I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u38	The situation at the stations is very complicated, because ProRail is responsible for the platforms and escalators. The station hall is again of the NS and the building in front is either of the municipality or of the NS. That has become very complex. This complexity applies to the whole main rail network, but in particular to the edges. At the edges, this complexity also poses a problem in relation to the transport service offered to passengers. The NS is cheating, says the ACM. Whether we want to change something in the discussion about the structure between these companies, we can discuss it with each other. There are all kinds of pros and cons to say about that. For the traveller it is important that he gets the best offer. Then you can see that the NS at those stations where there is competition with others is abusing its dominant position and that it is breaking the law, so that the traveller does not get the optimal offer. In view of the importance of the traveller, I believe that we should look at this in front of those stations. I think, of course, that it is the Minister's job to investigate this carefully. That's why I'm asking him.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u39	I now hear the recognition of D66 that the situation at the stations is very complex. I think D66 will agree with me that taking it away from the stations at the NS might be a little too short a turn as a solution. I can imagine that there are other solutions too, for example, by using the railways together with the stations as in England. That could be an alternative. Maybe there are other possible solutions. Isn't it much better to map the entire width than just zoom in on that one D66 solution for seconds? I think there is much more to come up with in the interests of the traveller.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u40	For D66 it is important to think in the interests of the traveller and to find a structural solution for that double-hat system. I hear Mrs Dik-Faber say that she can see that there is a problem with these double caps and that we need to find a solution to this. A solution could be to put those stations where those double caps are playing at ProRail. I'm not asking the Minister to investigate that for nothing. Perhaps he says that there are other possible solutions. Of course, I will read all of this with great interest, but this structural problem needs a structural solution. That is not by abolishing the game but by rewarding the one who cheats by abolishing any incentive. It does not serve the traveller.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u41	One solution is to split those stations, for example, but there are other things, such as the management of passenger information. That is one side of the coin, but on the other hand it would be much easier to say that the NS does not enter the regional rail market.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u42	I am concerned about the importance of the traveller. I'm not for the NS and I'm not against the NS. I want the traveler to get the best offer because of competition between different offers. For example, if only Deutsche Bahn or the French state-owned company in a particular province makes an offer, it may be necessary for our own NS to make an offer. So I'm not against the NS; I just want a fair game, and fair game you don't get by rewarding the one who cheats with abolishing the game. That's why we need to separate those hats. That is in the interests of the traveller; not to exclude the NS, but also not to give the NS a monopoly as other parties would like.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u43	But I don't see how you can say that someone's cheating while you're letting him do something else, and then he keeps doing it anyway. Surely it would be simpler and clearer to reconsider that the NS does not participate in the tendering scheme for regional railway lines, precisely in the interests of the traveller? That is also in one of the questions and also in the Minister's letter. This gives other providers such as Arriva, Veolia, Connexxion and Syntus good opportunities, especially in the interests of the travellers and is not undermined by cheating the NS.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u44	Mr Klein and I share the same interest, namely that the traveller should be at the forefront and that the NS should not cheat. We differ only in the sense that I see several solutions to this. We need to make sure the NS can't cheat anymore. There are different solutions for this: there can be a split or the NS is excluded. That is not the first thing I am going to do, because it can put you in a situation where only one party is offering in the region and you are trading in one monopoly for another. That's not in the interests of the traveller. By the way, the NS is of course free to reconsider just to focus on the main rail network. I also know that's what she's getting into. I also think it would be very useful to discuss this with each other, but I will always keep the monopoly debate in mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u45	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the fake NS game for the concession in Limburg and the violations of the Railway Act. An internal investigation by the Dutch Railways showed that there were possible irregularities in the tendering of public transport in Limburg. As a result, an investigation was started, carried out by an external agency. This study showed that there was indeed a false play in winning the tender for public transport in Limburg. In order to acquire local knowledge, a Veolia employee was acquired from the current concessionaire...................................................................................................................................................................................................... Despite a non-compete clause and during his work for Veolia, he received an address under another name from NS-daughter Qbuzz. A mortal sin and a situation typical of the extent to which those involved were doing wrong. The NS-top wouldn't know anything about it, but it turned out that this was the case later. For the PvdA that is an indigestible fact. It was therefore an inevitable and decisive decision by the Minister of Finance to then summon the director of the NS, with the result that he offered his resignation. Nor is it surprising that more stakeholders have been held inactive. However, we still have a number of questions about the role of the Supervisory Board. Could the council have been aware of the events that were taking place in Limburg earlier? Did the Council meet when it became clear on 25 April that there were abuses in the tendering procedure in Limburg? Are there any questions about why the council has not previously decided to intervene? The CFO of NS now replaces the CEO as director and the CEO of Abellio. To what extent is this situation desirable, given the rolling mix that has already taken place? I'd like an answer to this. In addition, there is also an investigation by the Authority Consumer & Market into infringements of the Railway Act and possible abuse of power by NS, the latter of which is still ongoing. The infringements of the Railway Act are typical of the way in which a public undertaking should not act against parties competing for a concession which depend on one of the bidding parties. How desirable is it that the NS should perform two roles, that of bidder on a concession and that of service provider to the competing parties? Has NS been put into a gap that always causes tension? Or is it desirable to invest these support services and determine their costs with an independent party? Looking more broadly, the question is whether, since the 1991 European directive with the split-up of NS and ProRail, the operation of the European rail market and the acquisition of bids abroad by state-owned companies, a situation has not arisen that calls for reflection on the organisation of the State-owned NS. Is the Minister prepared to look at what tasks are public for NS, what tasks are private and what tasks are hybrid? Is he willing to consider whether a separation between these tasks is well secured in the organisation? We would like to receive a letter on this matter. A strict separation between market and public service is at the heart of the current situation in Limburg. I would like to point out that every euro earned by NS goes to the Dutch taxpayer and traveler. Every euro earned by other parties, e.g. German or French state-owned companies, ends up in the state treasury of Germany or France. Therefore, the disadvantage of NS over other parties cannot be the intention either. The rushing out of services does not lead to the cultural change that is needed. We would like to be kept informed of the steps being taken to implement cultural change at NS and the way in which it is designed. Finally. We want travellers to be able to travel in the future with a company that wants more than just profit. The Dutch Railways must serve the interests of the traveller within the applicable laws and regulations. The traveller must be at the heart of this. After these serious incidents it is time for rest on the track and time to give professionals who are working every day the space to provide the best possible transport for all travellers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u46	I would like to thank Mr Hoogland for his very nuanced story on a number of points. I think this is good for the discussion. He indicated that a number of points might need to be invested with an independent party. Can he give us a little more insight? Which independent party does he consider appropriate? He said that the separation of hats should be better arranged. I think that is at the heart of the debate. Mr Hoogland mentioned a guarantee within the organisation, but in line with the previous point, I wonder if it could also be a separation between this organisation and another organisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u47	That's kind of a complicated question. After the compliment, I was wondering what was coming. You can refer to this question for half an hour, but we don't have time for that right now. I opened the question quite open, because I'm not in harm's way. For the PvdA it is central that the divorce did not work well. That's why I'm asking if we shouldn't even investigate if we can do better. Maybe we can do it inside NS with Chinese walls. Perhaps that is not possible and an independent supervisor should be considered. Maybe it should be with another organization. I do not have an appropriate answer to that right now, because that would not do justice to the nuances you so appreciate. That's why I'm asking a question about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u48	Clear, thank you. I have asked the Minister, in fact, in my debate on the interruption with Mrs Dik-Faber, this request was already somewhat broader in order to examine how the separation of these hats could be better regulated. It is a structural solution to a structural problem. Would you support such a request to the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u49	In this house there is always the question of what that request looks like. Your interrupting debate was also about the stations and the position of stations. I'll see some complicated stuff there. These stations are also a earning model for NS. So it may be important not to say with just one stroke of pens this afternoon that we are quitting. However, there are also support services. Now it's not going well, but it's a question of whether you should put it all in the law. There will continue to be court cases between parties competing on the track. That is the case now, but even if you record it correctly, this will remain the case. For me, the question is what it will yield, when it comes to the stations and the placement. In addition, the question is whether this can be investigated.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u50	Everyone knows the problems at NS. There's been a lot of problems for over ten years. That is, of course, because of the difficult way in which we organized it. Mr Hoogland knows this better than anyone. He is targeting the Supervisory Board, but here are two PvdA executives who are both responsible for the functioning of the NS and the railways in the Netherlands. It's one drama. However, I do not hear any critical question from the PvdA Group to either of them. So I wonder what the PvdA is doing. Does it hold the hand over the head of its own rulers, or does it stand up for the traveller?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u51	I find it difficult to judge whether I should answer this question now, because you have already concluded that the Labour Party wants to keep two rulers out of control, that there have actually been problems for ten years. You could have said that for twenty years or thirty years it has been a tragedy. Well, I'll leave that summary on your behalf. I'd like to put some nuance into it. I think there are two leaders here who have intervened on the basis of their responsibility. The Minister of Finance sent the director home from his responsibility as shareholder of the NS. Here in this house, that is not something you just do for a while; that is a rather serious and profound action that is not just being taken on purpose. In addition, we have a Secretary of State who, with the Long Term Track Agenda, has ensured that we can all take an example of this for the longer term................................................................................................................................................................................. I think those two have brought peace and space that we may have missed over the past few years. So I don't share your opinion at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u52	The NS is a 100% State participation. We have a minister responsible for monitoring business operations, including that state participation. For that we have those shares in our hands. In addition, we also have a State Secretary responsible for monitoring the interests of the passenger on the track and overseeing the market operation that you would like to see whether or not there is. We have had numerous debates about it. Now it all goes wrong and you have no question of your own rulers. You're not critical at all. You say they've done well. That is actually your conclusion from this debate. If we are going to debate like this, there is no point in being here in this Chamber. So I really wonder what you are doing on behalf of the PvdA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u53	You can only judge whether it makes sense to be in this Chamber. I think it is useful because we are talking here about the cultural change that is needed at NS; I have also asked a number of questions about this. I think it is particularly important that we do not take the measure of each other here, but that we look at how this state-owned company can shape the objective that is there, which is to put that public value back at the centre and not just make profits on the railways. This requires cultural change. I know you support that, too. When it comes to speaking for the stage, it seems as if you are playing the role that you have just accused me of.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u54	I hear Mr Hoogland say that there are two directors here who have taken their responsibility in this file because the director has been sent home. There has indeed been a spicy discussion with the Minister of Finance. I have asked for this together with Mrs Van Veldhoven. That conversation didn't take place until after all the evil had already been done. On 27 January, the ACM announced openly that it intended to "bare" NS, so to speak, because of the situation in Limburg. My question is therefore why the Secretary of State did not intervene at that time. How does the Labour Party feel about nothing happening from the cabinet back then?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u55	That seems to me to be a question for the Secretary of State. I can't answer that question. We can ask for facts, but we've already had two and we can get three more.That's usance here, but we don't get that much further. I never made the conclusion that you just put me in the mouth, that the responsibility was taken because the director was sent home. No, that is one of the actions that has been taken, and that is for now a very robust intervention, but then the state-owned company itself has to solve the problems. If there's a glitch on the track, the worst thing we can do is get our screwdriver here, go to the track and try to help with that, fix that glitch. That is what the people who work there and who are paid for it should do, not us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u56	Mr Hoogland begins by saying that he cannot answer my question as to what the Labour Party thinks of the fact that there has not been an immediate response. Next, he says that the Minister of Finance has used a horse's tool, which, in my opinion, was also inevitable, to send the director home. I do think I should ask the Labour Party's opinion, however, that is the game of questioning and answering in this House of Representatives, so that we can come to a good solution, whether it does not think that once it was known that there was a problem, the cabinet should have intervened right away, even before the award took place, rather than now afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u57	No, and I find it childishly naive to imagine it as if it works that way. Running a country isn't "I hear something; I'm going to intervene." That includes proper procedures. This includes that, when a company appeals, the cabinet does not waltz over it with its own opinion. That's part of it. That includes stature, which is now missing from you. You say there must be intervention and the summit must be removed. You have already used qualifications in newspapers, which makes me think: why are we still debating here? You've already finished your judgment. That doesn't help us, Mr. Van Helvert. I think it would be a good idea to wait for the answers of the rulers and, on that basis, to assess whether they have done their job properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u58	Mr. Chairman. The departure of the NS-topman last Friday was the provisional conclusion of a gloomy series of incidents. There was fraud, of confidential information shared by consultants with third parties, of hiring the competitor's people through a bogus construction with the knowledge of the summit, of deliberately harming other carriers and thereby undermining the registration of the competitor. All of these are actions that dwindle the competitor and thus the traveller. The reaction was constant: nothing wrong, people, keep moving! However, the stairs must be wiped clean from above. The departure of the directors of NS and Abellio is inevitable and entirely justified. Fraud, lies and deception are always wrong, especially in a state-owned company, which has to do its job on behalf of all of us and of our taxpayers' money. A deep investigation therefore speaks for itself. But my group still has a number of questions. Who is the sponsor or initiator of this research? And how independent is this investigation? The Minister says that the abuses and wrong behaviour have been spread fairly widely by the organisation, both by the various organizational components and by the hierarchical layers. A number of people also know that they were involved. Are those people still in place? NS must go through a deep cultural change process, says the Minister. According to the VVD, a change of culture is essential. How does the Minister see this? And how is this cultural change process to take shape? Following De Brauw's investigation into the President-Director's walk, the NS launched a further investigation into internal procedures and rules of conduct for procurement and compliance with them. How can there be an independent investigation if the client is the NS, where the wrong behavior would have been widely disseminated by the organisation? It's a double hat in a double hat investigation, and that's not a good plan. In view of the ruins that lie ahead, the VVD wants the minister as shareholder to be the principal of this investigation, rather than the NS. Can the Minister respond to this? How does the Minister appreciate the behaviour of the Supervisory Board? Has the Supervisory Board acted in good time and has it been informed in good time? After all, the Minister also states that he was informed too late. How late was the Minister informed? The mess of a number of leading figures dupes the 33,000 NSs who work hard on public transport in the Netherlands every day. They are addressed in the train and at the station on their NS. How will the board of directors and the supervisory board restore confidence in the summit? As a Chamber and as a political body, we are also obliged to look at the frameworks we set out here and within which the NS must and may operate. There is a structural and fundamental problem within the organisation and structure of the NS. The phrase "perverse stimulus" is appropriate here. The cat is tied to the bacon, has been said before, and we know the opportunity makes the thief. On the one hand, the NS has a "conductor cap" and runs trains; on the other hand, the NS owns the stations and the associated facilities. The NS regulates the use of ticket machines and the hiring of staff spaces and the NS determines where the chips are placed. The NS must offer service points fairly and transparently to other carriers without sharing this information with its own bidding organisation. Last Tuesday we voted in this Chamber on a piece or three amendments from the VVD and the CDA, to have the provision of facilities by the NS to other carriers examined in advance by the ACM. This prevents a situation such as that that arose in Limburg around the tender. Until the last moment, the Secretary of State was against it. We are therefore very surprised that one day after the vote, the NS itself announces this as a measure to be taken and that it is also embraced. How is this possible? What happened that night? What angel appeared at the secretary's bed? I'd like to hear a response to this. There have also been several warnings from other carriers, with a view to the abuse of power by the NS as a result of the situation in Limburg. How does the Secretary of State indicate this, given all the abuses, and what is the Secretary of State going to do to ensure a level playing field? The Minister now announces a higher Chinese wall as a measure to solve the PET problem within the NS.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u59	I think Mrs De Boer is making a very good speech. She asks how the Secretary of State will ensure a level playing field. Do I understand that the VVD also feels very clearly that the Secretary of State is responsible for the level playing field on the track?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u60	It is the system responsible for public transport in the Netherlands and has also to monitor it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u61	Then we are in complete agreement on that point. How does the VVD then assess that every time we in the Chamber, through letters, the organisation of work or in other ways have asked the Secretary of State to intervene in that level playing field in 2013, 2014 and 2015 she repeatedly said that it is not about that? How does the VVD judge that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u62	The Secretary of State is herself responsible for her response. I ask a number of questions that live with me. The Secretary of State shall be responsible for the public transport system. The things that have happened in Limburg must indeed be avoided for the future. The VVD also proposes a solution for this. I also want to know from the Secretary of State what else she thinks she can do to ensure that level playing field. I think we agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u63	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u64	Thank you. The Minister now announces a higher Chinese wall as a measure to solve the PET problem within the NS. However, you do not need fortune cookies to see that with a higher wall you do not remove the perverse stimuli and loom errors. The ACM's report is clasp-and-ready. The NS itself states that Abellio can make use of certain facilities and therefore has less additional costs to incur. There is therefore cross-subsidisation and a higher wall is a patchwork. This will distort the market and keep other carriers out of the door improperly, thereby preventing consumers from making better and cheaper public transport. The VVD therefore now wants clarity and transparency about the station activities, the net financial effects for the State when these activities are broken down and the relationships and financial flows between the different NS activities. A new in-depth investigation on the basis of which we can seriously consider the separation of stations, and services and facilities at stations, of the NS.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u65	If I understand Mrs De Boer correctly, she wants to make the Netherlands the crazy Henkie of Europe. Deutsche Bahn, the mother of Arriva, has all the stations in Germany. The VVD now proposes to remove the stations from the NS to create a level playing field. Why is it justified that DB runs all stations in Germany but the NS cannot have that from the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u66	I can only judge the situation in the Netherlands at the moment. I see that the invitation to tender in Limburg has gone wrong. It is not the case that market forces have not done their job there. The Competition Act has been broken, the Railway Act has been broken: several investigations are still being carried out. We have also seen, in the regions, that procurement has simply improved the quality of public transport. We want to see how we can create a better playing field and remove the stations from the NS. We want an investigation so that we can see how we can do that. First, all the facts on the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u67	I have not heard the beginning of an answer to my question. I simply say that there is a problem, namely that the VVD in the Netherlands wants to remove the stations from the NS. At the same time, DB still manages all stations in Germany. DB also manages the rail; it is in a holding company, but in part DB manages the rail. The question to the VVD therefore remains why it is justified to please Arriva, a daughter of DB, by removing the stations from the NS, while in Germany the same situation exists as in the Netherlands. What do you mean, a level playing field? Can Mrs De Boer answer that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u68	A level playing field in the Netherlands. Mr Bashir talks about 'Arriva pleasure', we are talking about the pleasure of the traveller. That's what it's all about in the end. Mr. Chairman. If the SP got its way, the NS wouldn't even run trains in the regions. If we hadn't decided at the time to spend, we wouldn't have any rail transport at all there, because it really literally and figuratively slowed down.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u69	I didn't hear an answer. I'm really sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u70	Research after research shows that market forces have worked on track. We have better quality in the regions, we have more travellers, we have better trains. Each investigation confirms this. Only the SP I don't know which planet it's coming from systematically denies the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u71	We hear that this is only about the traveller, but I think it is about the motorist and that will please the VVD just as much. If only 5% of the people on the train get on the road in a car, traffic in the Netherlands is totally fixed. So it's about all the Dutch. Twenty years of pushing and pulling on the track. It had to go to the stock market, it had to be privatised, it had to be self-destructed and its parts removed. These are all matters that should make a warm market-sensitive VVD heart sound. After twenty years the VVD itself finds that it still does not work. So the medicine of always pulling a part out and putting it somewhere else hasn't worked for 20 years. According to the VVD, another part will be drawn out, the stations, ensuring that Mrs De Boer's words are that the structural problem and the cultural problem in the NS have been solved. And then suddenly the traveler gets better. Can Mrs de Boer explain how this is now the magical medicine as a solution to all our problems?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u72	I can be very brief about that. This prevents abuses, as in Limburg. In this way, we will prevent the biggest carrier on the track, also the owner of the stations and the station activities, from actually withholding information from other carriers, which means that they are unable to register properly and the traveller is damaged. Unfortunately, I note that GroenLinks is still systematically denying that registration works in the regions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u73	It's just that funding was taken away from the railroad. The lines that are not profitable by themselves had to be tendered. We have made that decision here. This is not a natural consequence of tendering or market forces. How can Mrs De Boer claim that this is a result of market forces? It is simply a result of a political decision taken in this Chamber about 1995-1996.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u74	That was a very wise political decision. Otherwise, we would no longer have public transport or rail transport in these regions. Each study shows that the quality has increased, that the trains have become cleaner and that more passengers are entering the trains. I said that Mrs Van Tongeren came from near the planet where I think Mr Bashir came from...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u75	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u76	At least look at the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u77	I also hear the VVD Group formally say that it still needs to be examined. But the outcome of the investigation is also well known as regards the VVD group, namely removing the stations from the NS. Is that really the solution for travellers? Because I also see problems when we do this. We didn't settle this one-two-three. Why the drive to remove the stations, which would be Columbus' egg in solving all the problems?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u78	I could refer briefly to the ACM report. This has shown that the NS has indeed abused its dominant position because it owns the stations. We need to fix that weave error. That perverse stimulus needs to be removed from the system. To this end, we want an investigation. We want all the facts on the table about the financial flows, the consequences it has and the question of how it could be done better. We do want that, because we have a view that removing the stations from the NS leads to a more level playing field where other carriers can register equally. It's best for the traveler.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u79	It's still a double signal. On the one hand research and on the other hand the outcome is clear, namely removing the stations from the NS. Can the VVD imagine that there are other options, such as changing the rules of the game? Or think of England, where the stations go in the tender and the carrier on a particular route also gets the management of the stations. There are many possible alternatives, such as optimizing the current situation, which are worth investigating. Why is the course of: take it away, then everything is resolved? I don't think that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u80	In fact, what Mrs Dik-Faber is proposing is correct. That's why we want to investigate it. Why should we say very briefly that it should be so and so? First, we want all the facts on the table. We do indeed have a clear objective in mind that we should give the stations a different place. Mrs Dik-Faber also cited the situation in England as an example. If we followed that line, the stations would also be removed from NS. So I want to take a very good look at it. I invite the Christian Union to take a good look at this with us. Then I hope that we can have a fundamental debate on this in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u81	The VVD believes that market forces are the solution. But if you really want market forces on the track, you will also have to open up the main rail network to market forces. Then the NS must compete with Deutsche Bahn and with the French railways, which have a much better position and are much stronger financially. That might mean the NS doesn't exist anymore. Can the VVD imagine a Netherlands without NS?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u82	I have very different ambitions with the NS. I therefore express these ambitions here. I would like the NS to become one of Europe's largest railway companies. Abellio's who we see abroad too.. has just won a tender in Scotland. That's very good, too. That's the challenge we have to face together. Meanwhile, we need to look at how we can improve market conditions in the Netherlands, with only one goal: the importance of the traveller.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u83	So you really believe that the NS can compete without stations with Deutsche Bahn and the French state? Then you're very naive, aren't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u84	I believe that. That is also what the fourth rail package of the European Commission is about. It also says that there must be a separation between station activities and transport activities. The question is how much you're going through with that divorce. This is also the commitment of the European Commission. So the proposal is not that strange.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u85	Please continue with your speech, Mrs De Boer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u86	I will continue my speech. I'm almost done. I have a few more questions. How does the tendering process in Limburg proceed? I am certainly asking that question in the light of the information that came out last Friday. This shows that one of the tenderers who is lagging behind by the NS was excluded from registration on the basis of non-complete and non-timely information and information forwarded to the competitor. What about the tender in Overijssel for the Zwolle-Kampen and Zwolle-Enschede lines? It is common practice for companies that fraud to be excluded from tendering on the basis of the Procurement Act. How can that be interpreted in this case? Can the same kind of situation arise here as in Limburg? How would the Secretary of State deal with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u87	Mr. Chairman. There's been problems on the trail for over ten years, and it's going on and on. We're sick of this shit. While we are talking about the problem of tendering, a committee of inquiry on the Fyra debacle is in progress in another room. But there are also problems such as petals on track, snow, computer failures, trains that are not running or overcrowded and chip cards that are not customer-friendly. Then I almost forget the bribe when buying sprinters last February. Just now the news came that ProRail is again working with someone on far too high a salary. All these problems have everything to do with market forces. Today we are talking about the tender that failed because the NS director seems to have bottled the whole thing personally by passing on information to competitors. As a result, the tender was not fair. Last Friday, the Minister for Finance and the Supervisory Board abandoned confidence in CEO Timo Huges. He quit right away, too. The Minister of Finance has stressed that there is no exit premium for fraud-making top man Huges. But just to be sure, I want it confirmed that there is really no money being paid, no pension payments, no pay-off, no bonuses, no handshakes or any other compensation. I'd like to confirm that. We would also like to know whether people other than CEO Huges were aware of the tender fraud. When was the Ministry informed? When did the Secretary of State take action? I also recall the statements made by Qbuzz's management. D66 also did. I am very curious about the story of Mr Huges himself. I understand that a report will shortly be sent to the Chamber with the rehearsal of Mr Huge himself. To be continued, let's just say. As early as September last year, it was announced that the tender might not be pure. Veolia came up with serious allegations. What did the Secretary of State do with that information? Doesn't her role mean that she has to steer the course of things on the Dutch track? Is the Secretary of State, together with the 100% shareholder, the Minister of Finance, not partly responsible for the operation of the railway as a whole? The State is a 100% shareholder for a reason. On 11 March, the leaked report of the Authority Consumer and Market was published. On 31 March we had a debate with the Secretary of State on this affair. What did the Secretary of State do afterwards, except wait for the findings of the ACM? Are the rulers on top of it, or do they let things go their way? Was the Minister or the Secretary of State immediately reported after the ACM had concluded that tender fraud had been committed? In recent months, the Secretary of State has repeatedly stated that there was a level playing field, despite the fact that the tender was known to be fully dependent on the behaviour of the NS. The NS can easily exploit information and market power to secure its own position as a monopolist on the surrounding railway and stations. The NS is that famous cat on the bacon. That is why our Minister of Finance and the Secretary of State are overseeing business, but they do not seem to be sufficiently aware of this role. How do they see their role in this issue and how do they look back on it, knowing that market conditions can almost impossible lead to a healthy market functioning and knowing that a fair tender is very difficult if the NS itself competes with the contract? All affairs of the past ten years can be traced back to the half-hearted way in which the Dutch track is organized. The EU once had the idea of seeing rail as a market with genuine market forces, but according to the PVV, there will never be a real passenger transport market on the railways. The passengers have no choice at all. You just take the train that's driving at the time. Busy routes are profitable at busy times, but they pay for uneconomic moments when the train also has to drive. Even then, public transport is a loss-making operation, which can only be maintained with taxpayers' money. Train tickets don't cover half the cost yet. The taxpayer pays the other half, but because the Netherlands cannot without a train, we are prepared to pay for it. The rest of the market consists largely of foreign state-owned companies. Veolia is largely in French hands and Arriva is the German state-owned company. For the umpteenth time, as far as we are concerned, market forces on the track have failed. That is why we must stop this impossible market operation. ProRail and the NS can be merged again and be a state-owned company, well run by a minister of mobility. He has to let the trains run in the Netherlands. As far as we are concerned, the NS can also stop foreign adventures, such as driving trains in Scotland. The NS already has enough trouble to drive the trains in the Netherlands with two flakes of snow.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u88	Mr Madlener made the analysis that the cat was tied to the bacon and that there was insufficient supervision. I think I subscribe to that analysis for a large part, but is he going to reward the cheater now by abolishing the game? What incentive do we have to ensure that passengers are properly served? I often sit with Mr Madlener in debates on the railways. We can see that some things are not going well. It is difficult to stimulate the NS to achieve better performance but if everything goes back to the NS, what incentive, which stick do we have?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u89	I am indeed in favour of reversing the split between ProRail and the NS. With that, I'll run the broom through the entire organization. I'm not talking about all the people who do good work, not the conductors who, you'd almost say, risk their lives every day with all that insecurity. I don't want to reward the NS. I want the broom to go through. I also want the roles clean again. The Minister must control business and we in the Chamber must also have something to say about it. Then you have a much purer role and you don't have market forces with all those excesses. From the list I mentioned, you can take all the problems back to the left or right in terms of market forces or the failing market forces. Unfortunately, I do not think Mrs Van Veldhoven is convinced of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u90	That's right. That is where we differ. D66 thinks an incentive is good to encourage NS to achieve optimal performance. That is in the interests of the traveller. I stand by my question to Mr Madlener. He wants to reward the cheater by abolishing the game. Actually, he says it's gonna be okay after that. Afterwards NS will automatically offer the best for the travellers. Isn't that a little naive?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u91	In fact, I think you're the cheater yourself. You have created an impossible situation with your half-hearted market forces. There's a lack of clarity. Who's responsible now? We have two rulers who aren't actually doing anything. We have excesses after excess and we have the Fyra-debacle. I've listed a list of problems at NS that are all the result of your market operation. You're the cheater. Those aren't the conductors. Let's get the company back together with ProRail so that the knowledge is back in one house. Then all those discussions between NS and ProRail about who should do better are no longer there. We in the Chamber have to make sure that the minister steers the company properly. Then we have pure relations and hopefully the trains can ride on time again, even if it snows a bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u92	I note that Mr Madlener NS has nothing to offer but to call into question market forces rather than a real solution...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u93	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u94	...to offer for those who cheat.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u95	Thank you, Mrs Van Veldhoven! I would also like to thank Mr Madlener. I call Mr Bashir.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u96	Mr. Chairman. The invitation to tender in Limburg is a fiasco. A director of Veolia leaked information to Qbuzz, a subsidiary of NS. Qbuzz has adopted this director through a shady construction and under a fictitious name, while there was a competitive clause. In addition, a report by ACM reports several irregularities and breaches of the Railway Act. Infringement of the law, fraud, bribes and tax avoidance via Ireland; market forces on the track have become an incredible gang. The worst part is that there are parties who constantly claim that all this is in the interests of the traveller. What do you mean, in the interests of the traveller? The traveller is the victim of this market operation party, because the province has now decided to grant Arriva the concession that was won by Abellio, while Abellio's offer was a lot better than that of Arriva. The traveler will be saddled with Arriva after all. Why, after so much misery, has it been chosen to continue with the procurement process? Is the choice for the second winner not a decline for the inhabitants of Limburg? Why couldn't the province wait to decide on this debate or at least until the actual questions put by the House of Representatives have been answered? Has Deputy Koopmans, who has been on Arriva's payroll for years, played a role in this? Why did Arriva have to get the concession so quickly, when Veolia was and is the injured party? Is it true that the Dutch taxpayer is now missing a EUR 160 million dividend? We are in favour of reversing this concession. Is the cabinet prepared to do this? Please respond to these questions. With the whole operation of the market on track, the advocates are mainly fooling themselves. It's a ludicrous situation where several state-owned companies roll down the street and fight every point and comma through the judge and ACM. In doing so, I immediately joined ACM; an organisation that plays an active political role itself. Driver Don is actively campaigning for more market forces on the track and against the direct granting of the main rail network. ACM conducts continuous research into NS, but looks away when it comes to Arriva and Veolia. These carriers act as if they are very small players who have to fight against the oh so powerful NS. In reality, their parent companies are many times larger than the NS. Are there any unauthorized cases at Arriva and Veolia? Is it normal for these carriers to sit together in one club, the Dutch Federation of Mobility Companies? It is also curious that Arriva and Veolia initially wrote letters together to the ACM. Why doesn't the ACM ever investigate that? There have been leaked e-mails about conspiracy against the NS. Why isn't the ACM investigating this? Or doesn't that fit into driver Don's calendar?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u97	I'm making a point of order. I think it is really inappropriate for Mr Bashir here to hold a tirade against one of the directors of an authority appointed by ourselves. He's not in the business here. I think it is quite wrong that he should be addressed in this way. I ask Mr Bashir, in the interests of a normal and careful debate, to put his question to those who are accountable here, and not to accuse someone who cannot defend themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u98	On a point of order, it is not customary to ask a question, but I assume that this should be seen as a rhetorical question. At the end of Mr Bashir's speech, I would have liked to point out that in the Chamber we are only addressing people who can reply here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u99	I'm doing nothing but my job. My job is to control the government. There are some things that stand out to me, and I have asked questions about this to the Minister and the Secretary of State. They are, of course, concerned with the answer. As far as the SP is concerned, we need to stop this whole circus of market operation and procurement as soon as possible. Market forces only create legal ruins. NS is a state company, so call it that and trade it. Stop contracting, take care of a main rail network throughout the Netherlands and merge NS and ProRail. Run the trail again, lead the way. The problems on the track speak for themselves. There is even a parliamentary inquiry going on right now. What else does it take to convince the cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u100	I notice that the SP makes a certain turn. How is that possible? In all the debates on this subject, Mr Bashir always jumps out on behalf of the SP to defend the NS. Of course you can. The NS can do nothing wrong and everything is the fault of regional carriers or the market forces. However, when the day was there, the SP was the first in the media to call Mr. Huges to leave. In this debate, the NS is once again defending itself: it has done nothing wrong and everything is up to the others or the market forces. What does the SP actually think? Has the NS done something that is not allowed or is it the fault of everyone else and the market?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u101	I don't think the CDA spokesperson listened to me very carefully. I started an analysis of what happened. I've named the facts. Then, together with Mrs Van Veldhoven, I was one of the first to have finished its conclusions after the publication of the ACM's report. So Mr Van Helvert cannot blame me for not doing my job properly. I will come to the cabinet in a moment to ask why the cabinet, when it had that report much earlier, did not reach the same conclusions as I did and as last Friday. If the cabinet could draw those conclusions on Friday, it could have drawn them earlier, namely when the report became public. As far as we are concerned, we must stop the whole circus of procurement and market forces as soon as possible. It also includes the fact that we stop rewarding the NS boss so highly. Why does the NS boss have to get so much money? Why more than half a million euros a year? Does someone with that kind of income deliver better performance? Why is the income of a State Secretary or a Minister not sufficient for the head of the railways? The SP Group proposes the ministerial salary as a new standard for the salary of the new NS top man. More than half a million is unnecessary. I'd like to get a response from the cabinet. I will conclude with the role of the cabinet in this matter. Has the cabinet given explicit permission to the NS to participate with Abellio in Limburg? Did the initiative come from the NS itself or from the cabinet? When exactly was the cabinet informed of the content of the ACM report? When was the Minister informed? Was this a different version of the report than the final version? If so, what was different about the version that the cabinet had previously received? Why was the conclusion about the departure of a top man from the NS not taken until Friday? Wasn't the same information from the report known before? Why didn't anything happen then? When was the cabinet aware of the investigation that the NS had carried out to an employee who leaked information from Veolia to the NS daughter Abellio?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u102	Mr. Chairman. I start by commending the NS staff who take me to The Hague daily, or to other locations when we are on work visits. These people are committed with heart and soul. I had an extensive conversation with a conductor on the train yesterday. He said he had a terrible heart, and he was full of praise for Huges. He said that this case may not be allowed, but that Huges has done a lot of good things further within the company and that he and the Secretary of State have started a number of moves to bring ProRail and NS closer together. You can't cheat. The VVD already knows this happened at the NS. GroenLinks is waiting until the prosecution finishes the charge and the judge has ruled on it. As I said in the interruptions, according to GroenLinks, public transport is a basic requirement for recreation, school, work and family. However, it also greatly helps the Dutch driver. Suppose 5% or 10% of the people on the train get on the road: the whole of the Netherlands is then fixed. Schultz can't compete with that to get us moving again. So be very happy with this state-owned company. History has already reviewed several other spokesmen, so I'll skip that part. The fact is that parts have always been removed from this state-owned company. There are parts on the market. First the company had to go to the stock market, then it didn't. The House of Representatives and the government had to be put very far away because the market could manage; after that they had to interfere with the leaves on the rails again. I also took part in these debates. For 20 years, the Chamber has not shown a clear direction either. The idea-fix remains that the market generates the best solutions, while it is not a market on which the company operates at all. Read the excellent report that the First Chamber has produced on the progress of a number of privatisations and their results. I would like to know from the Minister and the Secretary of State what the independence of the NS has brought to their judgement. Have the travellers made any progress with it, or are we still working on fine tunes after 20 years to get the level playing field and to get market forces going? How does the Minister see his role as the sole shareholder when he is so keen on the culture and structure of the NS? It's not one wrong apple you take out, then the organization's okay. According to the minister, there's a lot wrong with the culture within the NS. Where was the minister when this culture came into being? Neither has politics been improved by attempts at market forces and privatisation. In its report, the First Chamber rightly notes that attention to public interests and the need for proper supervision of new markets have been completely under-exposed in large independent states. Most of the debates have been about incidents, according to the report of the Supreme Court. So again today, and the applicant for the debate only asks for a factual account. The fact that such crazy complex constructions need to be devised to play on the track shop must give rise to the question whether this is a market. Does this even work? I want to know from the minister today what he expects from the NS. Is she bound with hands and feet and should she do a higher morale than, for example, Starbucks or any other company that has a post-bus quotation here? Should the NS be a shining example from the general interest? Or do we want the company to have a strong wind, competitive and tight operation? In the Lower House there is no question whether the company has filled in the general interest a bit nicely or that it has been morally high. No, figures, satisfaction rates, time driving and costs are being looked at. That's the business approach. As I understand it, it goes with the fact that you need to be able to look up the edges of the law, as the competitors do. But the Minister writes in his letter that he expects the NS not to do so, that she leans back a bit, that she lets herself eat the cheese of bread by the competitors, who undoubtedly look up the edges of the bread. The NS gets two footage she's after. In addition, it will not be clarified how the evaluation will be conducted in 2019, what will happen to the next call for tenders and whether or not it will be allowed to participate in subsequent calls for tenders. So you put a company in an unclear market and an uncertain situation. I ask the Secretary of State and the Minister to reflect on this. We are now in need of yet another amendment to the Railway Act in twenty years. Do they think that it is really clear now and that it is completely clear to the NS what it has to comply with?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u103	Did I just hear Mrs Van Tongeren say that she thinks that in all the debates on the railways we should only ask the NS if she behaves a little morally? Or does she think that we are allowed to deal with the NS on arrangements we make with her about what we offer the traveler?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u104	No, Mrs Van Veldhoven misunderstood me. My whole speech also points to the self-reflection that we have sent away a company with a very unclear message for twenty years. On the one hand, it must be a sharp market-oriented company. Mrs Van Veldhoven asks whether we can deal with that. On the other hand, the Minister expects that the company is morally high, that it does not seek the edges of the law and that it does not apply Irish constructions. All of us, the Cabinets over the last twenty years plus the people in the Chamber, have not given the NS a clear and unambiguous instruction.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u105	Then my question is what clear, unambiguous instruction GroenLinks would like to give to the NS. Is it in line with the detestable return thinking, the hard agreements about what the NS is going to deliver to the traveller? Or are we going to have a little conversation with each other about whether the NS is sufficiently morally responsible? What instruction will GroenLinks give to the NS?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u106	GroenLinks has resisted playing the shop on the track since 1993 from the illusion that the traveller would get better. Each time after this has happened, we have said that if we do it, we must do it right. My observation now is that this has still not been achieved and that it will certainly not be better if, on D66's proposal, we also remove the stations from the NS. Mr. Chairman. This is another piece of my story I've been telling you, so that helps. My time went on during this interruption, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u107	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u108	I'm almost at the end of my story. We would like to hear from the Minister what he is going to do with the recommendations for the state participations so clearly set out in the Court's report. The Minister's ability to participate in state participations and what he has actually regulated in relation to the NS and ProRail has been properly reported. This shows, among other things, that if it is not true, the Minister may correct me if the NS does not have to officially ask the shareholder for an investment of more than 2.5 billion. If that is true, it seems to us to be a hugely high threshold. For example, there are more points that we wonder whether the Minister has made maximum use of his legal powers. How does the Secretary of State view the creation of a level playing field? How does she see her role in that? Has she, as other spokesmen have asked, dropped? Does it want to make improvements, especially in view of the question of how we will ensure that travellers, all Dutch, get better?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u109	I could say that there are enough reports that state that market forces in the region have worked very well and that quality has gone up. Apparently, Mrs. Van Tongeren doesn't want any of that. What does she think of the conclusions in the ACM report?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u110	I shall reply first to that first point, because that was an implicit accusation. It has been decided not to subsidise transport through the NS anymore, also on lines that are less used. It was then decided with the agreement of the VVD that there would be contract transport on those lines. Then it's tendered. So I'm not saying at all: the NS neglected that and let it go; then the other one had to and they did it better. I know the report that shows you're doing better once you go this way for 15 or 16 years and then you do it. Yes, ammehula, but that was never a choice GroenLinks would have wanted to make. GroenLinks says: hadn't done it; you can't play shop there; if you do it, do it well. And colleagues have also said it: look at the same situation in Germany and France, which shows that you are not getting there by splitting it up even further. We would like peace and quiet on the trail.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u111	Now to my question: what does Mrs Van Tongeren think of the conclusions of the ACM report?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u112	The ACM stands for its own conclusions. I have not conducted my own investigation on the basis of which I can say that her conclusions are correct or not. In my humble opinion, this shows that there is still some uncertainty in the Railway Act. On the one hand, you can see that the NS must make a binding offer in the very short term in the sense of "I rent so much space for a waiting space for the drivers" or "I offer this." That's what she's all tied up with. On the other hand, it is completely non-binding. I think that's a little unbalanced. I also noticed that a number of services require a mandatory offer, but not for others, such as the access of disabled people to the train, which seems essential to me. It has been considered that there is a different way of purchasing a service for that in the market. I'm talking about that kind of ambiguity in the law. So that's not a judgment on what the ACM says, but what she shows, I find a problematic part of the whole attempt to play shop on the track.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u113	Mr. Chairman. My group, too, would like first of all to express its appreciation for all those who work very hard every day at the NS to bring many people, including me, to work or private visits. Just now I saw a message from one of the NS staff who said: what is happening is really not going to be in my cold clothes and many of my colleagues. That is why I would like to begin my speech by expressing my appreciation for all those people: the conductors, the engineers and the cleaning staff. We are talking today about the tendering procedure in Limburg. A lot of things went wrong there. That is clear from the debate. Due to these facts, leaving the NS-topman has become inevitable. Like the travelers' organisations, I was pleased with the cultural change brought by Mr Huges to the NS and the steps he has taken in cooperation with other carriers to put the passenger's interests first. This interest of travellers should also be at the forefront of this debate. It is therefore a question of how we can ensure the public interest. It is not just a question of how to deal with competition on the railways, but also of how to ensure that carriers work well together. Of course, the NS should have had its internal procedures in order. That must be done quickly. E-mailing requests for information about invitations to tender is really asking for problems. We need a single point of contact to deal with this kind of information request. If an information request is not clear, too detailed or too little concrete, it must be communicated as soon as possible and not used at the very last minute as some kind of delay tactic. There is also a responsibility for the State as shareholder, concession holder of the main rail network and responsible for railway organisation. In the course of 2014 there were many signals from the ACM, from the Chamber and from competitors of the NS that it was only a question of whether there was a level playing field in the tender in Limburg. The Secretary of State has consistently maintained that the level playing field was a problem for the province of Limburg and that all the necessary data were available. But is it? At the end of June 2014, the ACM stated that the playing field was uneven. In September 2014, a complaint was lodged by the NS' competitors with the Ministry. On 16 October, the judge then decided that it was not for the province to resolve market organisation problems. That was more than two weeks before the tender closed. The Secretary of State was therefore at that time determined on the basis of the ruling of the ACM. Why didn't the Secretary of State intervene at the time? Why did it not respond to the NS's competitors' complaint for months? A report from the ACM was issued on 6 March. Other speakers have also referred to this. That was still a confidential report at the time. The Secretary of State could have made it known to the province of Limburg, but she did not. The report became known before the award took place. The Secretary of State could have informed the province, but that did not happen. Why didn't this happen? You can't stop fraud. You can only try to prevent it by means of a corporate culture that focuses on integrity, clear rules and adequate enforcement if, unfortunately, there is fraud. As far as my group is concerned, the search for the limits of the law must not become the new standard of action. I read that in the letter sent by the Minister to the Chamber. The Minister also states that the NS should not seek the edges of the law as a State participation. But isn't that an illusion? After all, we see that commercial competitors do. Could the NS still be left behind? A more rigorous solution is the rejection of the stations by the NS. In interrupting debates with D66 and the VVD, I have already indicated that it is not a done deal for us today. Please do not allow us to make ad hoc decisions now. I would like to draw attention to the report by the Kuiper Committee of the First Chamber, which explicitly states that the public interest must be defined and that no unwise decisions must be taken. The Christian Union very much wants us to look at the position of the NS widely and not just look at the stations. I'm rounding up. It is in the interests of the traveller that the problems at the NS are resolved. It is also difficult to restore confidence between carriers. Because, to speak in terms of this debate, trust comes on foot and goes by train. In addition, the railway staff must be made clear quickly, including on the discussion on a collective agreement for public transport. How is the Secretary of State going to restore confidence in the sector?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u114	Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State has consistently maintained that the province is about procurement and public transport on the railways. That's only partially true. The Secretary of State is, of course, responsible for creating a level playing field, including for regional rail. The fact that this level playing field does not appear to be there can therefore be blamed on the Secretary of State. However, we can no longer pretend that competition is possible on the regional rail transport market as long as the NS can continue to operate in the current setting. The problem lies in the many roles the NS is currently playing. The competitors of the NS depend on the NS for the execution of the timetable. This does not lead to a healthy market and directly affects competitors. I see three possibilities from a free-minded perspective. A first possibility is for the NS to concentrate on rail transport. All other roles she currently plays, such as station management and associated business and providing travel information, are transferred to an independent third party, e.g. ProRail. A second possibility is that the NS and its subsidiaries will henceforth be excluded from regional tendering. A third possibility is that the government takes back the entire direction of the track as a utility. Clarity is needed. No matter how you turn it, everyone will agree with me that the track will have to be tracked, including the NS on the tracks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u115	I suggest we suspend for dinner break now. We will resume the sitting at 7 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u116	We shall begin with the first-term response from the government. I propose that we allow four interruptions per Member of Parliament in this period.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u117	Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State and I have agreed a certain division of roles. From a shareholder's point of view, I will deal with what has happened, the role of the shareholder and the role of the supervisory board. I will also say how we look at the future and what actions need to be taken in the short and long term. A lot of questions have been asked about who knew what when. We have already exchanged the necessary information in the written reply and in letters to the Chamber. The most important finding is that the malpractices, the breaches of the law established by ACM and the failure to attract a competitor's employee in accordance with the rules took place in the period before we, the ACM or other researchers could have put their finger on it. The suggestion that this case would have been prevented if we had acted earlier is therefore not correct. All signals are of later date, after it had already happened. When has the Minister been informed? We knew in the autumn that the ACM would investigate a complaint about the action of NS in Limburg. Such procedures are more common in the case of tenders, but they often lead to procedures. We didn't know about the contents of the report. The final report of ACM in full scope was only received on 4 June last. This is the version in which all the information was available, stripped of anonymisation. So there's a long time in between. This is partly explained by the fact that ACM is an independent supervisor, which initiates investigations itself, which it first makes known in concept to interested parties in accordance with established procedures. After that, procedures are open. The course of justice, if you would like to speak of a course of justice, thus covers a long period of time. During that period, the departments EZ and I and M were informed, but strictly from a certain perspective, which is different from that of the shareholder: EZ under the responsibility of the Competition Act and I and M under the responsibility of the Railway Act. In doing so, I would like to stress that the decisions of ACM were confidential and provisional, which ACM is not allowed to share with others. The shareholder therefore did not know the content of the report at that time. However, the shareholder knew that ACM had taken a provisional decision, as ACM had made this known on its website. In retrospect, looking back, we have to note that the shareholder should have been informed by NS. The same applies to the Supervisory Board. It was far too late and initially incompletely informed by its own board of directors about the seriousness of the report and the findings of ACM. The same is certainly true of the shareholder. This is one of the things that has affected the trust between the shareholder and the managing director of NS. We've been informed late. The full, confidential version of the report, in which we could see which NS employee played what role, up to and including the e-mails sent by these employees, was only very late, namely on 4 June. Again, that was far too late. The other route, the investigation by the law firm De Brauw, was initiated by the NS itself, because in the process of the ACM research mails came up that revealed something quite different, namely that a competitor's employee had been taken over through a construction, had carried out work, had provided information and had worked on the bidding team of the NS daughter in Limburg. That investigation has been initiated by the NS itself, but has not yet been completed. That is why we have not yet been able to give it to the Chamber, not even confidentially for inspection. That is going to happen, because the Court must be able to see the seriousness of the findings. The investigation has not yet been completed, as there is further hearing and hearing of the parties concerned. One thing is clear, namely that the statements made by Mr Huges, in particular on the contacts he had with Qbuzz's directors, have not been complete. We do not yet know exactly what information has been exchanged in those contacts. It may still be exposed by De Brauw. That's what they're looking at right now. That is why that final report is not yet available. Once that is available, we will also make it available to the Chamber, if it has to be confidential for inspection or with a version that can become public and a version that can be kept confidential for inspection.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u118	The minister says that it wasn't until June 4 that we could do something; we really didn't have any signals before that we could do anything with...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u119	No, I didn't say that. We have to quote each other exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u120	I'm happy about that. In 2011, there was already a quickscan passenger transport, which highlighted the risks of the double-hatting problem. That it was a subject that needed attention, shouldn't it have been known long ago? On 12 March, the Secretary of State was informed by the ACM. On 19 March the Supervisory Board was informally informed. My question would then be: by whom? On 25 April the CFO informed the Ministry of Finance. So there was a month and a half in between. We had an informal discussion with the ACM yesterday to ask her if the Secretary of State could have forwarded the report to the Minister of Finance. The minister just said it wasn't allowed, but the ACM said it was allowed yesterday. It was not allowed to go outside, but it was allowed to be shared between cabinet members. Why didn't that happen? Doesn't that surprise the Minister if he knows that the ACM can?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u121	There are several questions in this speech. Once again, for the sake of completeness, I did not say that we did not know anything until 4 June and could do something. The Chamber has received letters from me before, because we already had an image on parts and acted on them. In the following days, until June 4th, or actually until the morning of June 5th, that image has become more and more complete and more serious. Would I have wanted that information sooner? Yeah, but some of the tests were still ongoing. The ACM is still working on part of the investigation. De Brauw is still digging out what exactly has changed between the directors of Qbuzz and the CEO of NS, and so on. The image has gradually become more complete. As soon as we saw that, we did act. Indeed, the chairman of the Supervisory Board was informally informed on 7 April, I believe by the Management Board. This was about the investigation into taking over employee X from Veolia. According to the ACM, I and M or EZ, who both received that report on the basis of their specific responsibility, could have shared that with us. That's really new information for us. It has been said to the departments that received the report that it was strictly for their own use and confidential, because these departments are responsible for the Competition Act and the Railway Act at issue. I really have a different role as a shareholder. If the ACM says it would have been okay, we'll take notice of that now. That was not the instruction the ministries had when they were given that report for their own use, strictly confidentially. So I am not blaming my colleagues at all. They received a preliminary report from the ACM under those conditions and considered that it should not be shared with the shareholder, who has a different role.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u122	Then I think it is important for the Secretary of State to clarify the way in which this type of preliminary reports from the ACM are normally handled. Are they never shared, or was it treated in this particular case in this way? I think it is right that we should also ask the ACM whether that is exactly what has been said. It is a crucial point why this has lasted so long. The minister says that the Supervisory Board was informed on 7 April about employee X. Then there is still a very long time until the supervisory board went to the shareholder. Or was that much earlier and, if not, why did it take so long?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u123	First of all, on the first point. Mrs Van Veldhoven is right in saying that it is a good thing that we again understand with the ACM how to deal with this kind of thing: can the report also be shared with the shareholder who really has a different role if it is given strictly confidentially and for his own use only to the minister responsible? If that is the case, there is clarity about it, but that is not our impression. Apart from that, the ACM simply has a rather complicated procedure, in which stakeholders are given a concept earlier. They may still appeal and object to it. That's all time-limits. The decision or the fact that there is a decision is already published on the website, but the report is not yet available. That's all very complicated and confusing. The Secretary of State sent the Chamber a letter rather early that the decision was there, but the report was not yet public. The President of the Supervisory Board has been informally informed. That was about De Brauw, so the investigation into the transfer of the employee. We were informed about this quite early, but that investigation was still ongoing. There was therefore no question of it being said at that time that it was quite clear as it was. We sent a letter to the Chamber on 28 April. On 25 April, the chairman of the Supervisory Board informed us by letter on this matter and two days later we sent a letter to the Chamber with the interim report of De Brauw. Again, that is about the whole complex of taking over the employee with that construction. When we sent that letter with the interim report to the Chamber, we did not yet have an overview of all aspects of the role of the CEO of the NS in this regard. We knew that he was once almost and passer-by informed, but not what knowledge he had of it, how many times he had been involved, etc. Nevertheless, we sent a letter to the Chamber on 28 April, in which we said that this was extremely serious. This alone is why what we knew then about the acquisition of that employee was the reason for us to act here. This should never have happened. This is clearly a construction to circumvent the anti-competitive clause. Later more information has been added and De Brauw is still working on it. The complex of facts was getting more and more serious. That was the reason for Friday morning's events. That was, by the way, at the same time as the Supervisory Board. I didn't have to pressure the board, as some have suggested. The Supervisory Board has drawn exactly the same conclusion on the basis of the increasingly negative complex of facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u124	I'll be back on the 4th of June, when something officially came out. The Minister says that at that time something could be done in the official sense. How does that work? You can take back a lot of data, but let me take January 27th. On that day, the ACM announced, by means of a press release, that the Dutch Railways would be consolidated in connection with the award of an invitation to tender that would take place shortly at the time. Hasn't anyone been to the Ministry of Finance thinking about calling the ACM or the NS to ask what was going on, because a shareholder doesn't want it to work like that at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u125	I'm looking for the relationship with the timing of awarding the concession. My information is that that concession was provisionally granted on 10 February. It was not until early March that the decision of the ACM was made confidential to the parties concerned, the NS and Veolia, and shortly thereafter to the two departments. We did not hear about it much later but thanks to the communication on the website. There was no substantive motivation for this, by the way. We did not get the report at the stage either. Then there's just procedure. In that procedure, the NS also objected to the disclosure, because it considered it extremely harmful, but above all against the content. In retrospect, the NS shouldn't have done that. In the end, as a shareholder, we also told the NS to stop the substantive objection procedure, because it would no longer be able to justify that fact complex. However, all this happened later. You're asking for early March. That's what happened then.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u126	Early January.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u127	Just to clarify, on 27 January, the ACM announced its intention to ban NS. This is therefore still before the award by the province of Limburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u128	The ACM did not disclose its decision until early March to the parties concerned and to the two departments under their responsibility. At that time, the concession was not final, but it was awarded. Moreover, the ACM report also states that, since the parties had already made their bid in the tender and the deadline had been closed, the ACM did not consider the whole procedure to be invalid. Therefore, the ACM itself has an opinion on this. We can think differently. It is important to take note of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u129	On January 27, the ACM announced what it intended to do by means of a press release. At that time, the Chamber also requested a debate on this matter. For example, the VNG has a regulation: if an official suspects or sees abuses coming, he has an obligation to inform his alderman. I'm wondering what's going on here. It can't be that in the Ministry no one calls the ACM or the NS? Isn't there anyone from the Ministry who asks if it's true what's in the paper and what's supposed to happen to it and who says the Ministry doesn't want it? Surely it can't be that no one in the Ministry has thought of that or heard that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u130	I can only say that it was known to us in a global sense, without having the underlying material, that this was happening at the time the ACM announced on its website that there was a decision, a negative decision for the NS. Of course, we were in contact with the NS and we were informed of this, but we didn't get the report. In hindsight, of course, we should have. The Management Board should have shared the seriousness of this with the Supervisory Board and the shareholder. There are no fixed rules for this, but the board must at some point assess whether a case is so serious and of such administrative and political importance that it must be reported to the shareholder. That didn't happen here. It happened way too late. First of all, I blame the board of directors of the NS. It has the responsibility to share with the supervisory board the correct information relevant to the management of the company and, if necessary, with the shareholder. That didn't happen at that stage.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u131	I would like to philosophize about the role of the 100% shareholder. Why is the Dutch State 100% shareholder? What's your role in that? Can you reconsider that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u132	It's been since, I think, 1912. Since 1912 we have a nv Dutch Railways, of which the Dutch State is the shareholder. That is because, despite the guarantees of legislation and regulation, market organisation and supervision, the dominance of this player on the main rail network is so great that we also want to steer through shareholdership. This does not mean that I am responsible for the operation of the company. I heard the term used a few times here. Then you have to turn it into an official service. Then you are also directly responsible for the day-to-day operations. I'm not. It's a nv. It is run as a company, but within a wide range of public frameworks and with a clear mandate derived from laws, regulations and the concession agreement. The shareholdership gives me the opportunity to do a number of things, to focus on the big strategic choices, on the big investments. I will come to Mrs Van Tongeren's question later on whether the investment threshold is too high.... and on the appointment and remuneration policy. So we don't send at micro level and day-to-day operations. You can't do that at all. We have roughly 40 state participations, large and small, all of which are bound by laws and regulations and which operate in markets with or without a supervisor. The shareholder steers the main lines and ensures that the NS continues to contribute to the public tasks. However, I am not responsible for day-to-day operations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u133	I would like to continue with this, because I believe that you, as a shareholder, have the power to send home, for example, a CEO or to withdraw confidence. In this sense, you have the power to look into the way in which the company is run. If you find that this is not done in a good way, you can intervene to ensure public interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u134	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u135	That's exactly what's going on here. We have a CEO who made sure it went wrong. In that sense, I find your attitude towards the Supervisory Board very easy: wait for it. There were plenty of signals. We even heard in a TV show that the director of Qbuzz said the leadership was aware. I expect you to take action in your role as an active shareholder in ensuring the public interest and leadership of the NS. What did you do when you heard about those statements from that Qbuzz employee?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u136	First of all, we have acted in the right way to deal with that signal. There was an extremely serious response to that. Attorney's office De Brauw that was investigating this whole affair, who knew what, who had the responsibility and what was specifically the responsibility of the CEO? It has been further zoomed in and has spoken again and again with this director of Qbuzz and then with Mr Huges. That part of the investigation is still going on. We do not have the final report for that reason either. So in response to every new signal we've had, De Brauw has continued digging. I asked very much for that because I want to know exactly what is going on. It is, of course, extremely vulnerable. I strongly believe that culture is really starting at the top. If the top of the NS sends the wrong signals to the different parts about how to deal with confidentiality, with the legal task and with the public task enshrined in the law and so on, it will be sick throughout the company. That's what happened in this case. We don't know if that's happening systematically. That is being further investigated at the moment. Your concrete example and signal has therefore been further investigated by De Brauw and will be included in the final report.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u137	Mr. Bashir...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u138	Why do you have Mr Van Helvert interrupt three times?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u139	He had a clarifying question on his first question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u140	I also have a clarifying question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u141	I give the floor to Mr Bashir.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u142	For a good reconstruction, I have one more question for the Minister. He says that he only received the full, uncensored report on 4 June and that in the morning of 5 June the facts came to a close, after which the Minister was able to draw his conclusions. Can the Minister state clearly what he found out on 4 and 5 June which he did not know before?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u143	Yeah, that's fine to do. The report of 4 June concerned the ACM report, no longer anonymised. So it didn't say anymore: it was an e-mail from an employee of the NS. It was about sending emails and sharing information by the CEO of the NS. That anonymization was over. It was the first time that we received the report without the anonymisation and so we could also see what the CEO's involvement and responsibility was in this respect. The 5th of June in the morning added that the Supervisory Board informed us that we came to the same conclusion that the statements made by the CEO concerning, for example, the contacts he had had and the times when he had contacted Qbuzz's director on this issue could not be correct. We are still looking at who is right about the content of what was exchanged during these contacts. But the simple fact that at that stage, and even during the investigation phase, there had been much more contacts between the CEO and the director of Veolia, means that his earlier statements were not correct. That is a serious matter and it was a reason for the Supervisory Board to withdraw its confidence. The whole fact-finding complex was real enough for me to give up trust in this driver.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u144	So do I understand that the Minister was not informed before 4 June, in any way, about the facts he was informed about on 4 June, even when he was in contact with the NS CEO?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u145	No, I would point out that, over time, so until 4 and 5 June, new facts were added. Some things we knew before. I sent a letter to the Chamber on 28 April, in which we had the first preliminary findings of De Brauw on the issue...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u146	That wasn't my question. My question was in line with the Minister's first answer. The minister said: I didn't know that the CEO was the one who sent the e-mails or at least saw them. That was for him the drop that made the bucket run over. My question was whether that fact was not told by the CEO to the Minister sooner, in any way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u147	No. We did not previously have an ACM report showing with name and name who it was and who had shared certain emails and information. That's in the non-anonymized ACM report we received on June 4th.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u148	The minister didn't have the names yet, but we did know that there were very serious problems with the NS. There was a mock construction set up with an employee. Later it became clear that there was also an infringement of the Railway Act and abuse of power. As the Minister himself has just indicated, investigations are still ongoing. However, in simple terms, the Minister decided on 4 June: I am pulling the plug. Then why did he wait until June 4th? Those irregularities had already been detected by the end of April. Wasn't that the time to say: I'm going to act and play my role more actively as a shareholder, to make sure that the NS complies with the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u149	Sure, and that's what happened. That is why I wrote a letter to the Chamber on 28 April. We have not yet specifically discussed the role of the Chairman of the Management Board; at least that role is also addressed, but our view is that this involvement is limited. But the fact that the one employee was brought in and put away with a construction, that information was shared and that that employee played a role in the bidding team, was clear at that time. We were told that a few days before by the chairman of the Supervisory Board, on the basis of De Brauw's investigation. On the 28th we sent a letter to the Chamber in which we gave our verdict. I gave my opinion on how serious that was and what we were going to do on that basis. In the following days, further facts have been added to the factual complex, more specific about the role of the CEO. That was until those last days. At some point we had to go further and conclude that this driver could not be maintained. Now we're gonna finish the investigation. We must therefore wait for this to happen. Then we can look over the whole thing. There may be further consequences in the human sphere. That's what I said on Friday. I can't see that right now. Once the entire report is available, we can all see it. However, the facts we had on Friday morning were sufficient to know for sure: with this driver we could not continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u150	It was immediately clear to the Minister that the facts in that report were so serious that action had to be taken. That's why he says, "I sent a letter to the Chamber three days later." Doesn't it surprise him that the Secretary of State, who had known about the same facts for so long, didn't feel the same urgency? Doesn't it surprise him that she didn't have the same impulse and didn't say before that this couldn't stay down? She knew it since March 12th.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u151	We're gonna have to keep a few things apart. We are talking about this last part of the debate on De Brauw's report. That's about taking over that employee and the like. The Secretary of State of I and M and the Minister of EZ have previously been informed, confidentially and for their own use, about the ACM's judgment. That assessment was about how the NS dealt with information requests and the binding bid of competitors, Veolia and Arriva. Those were two separate trajectories.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u152	Can Mrs Van Veldhoven clarify which of the two reports she is talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u153	I would indeed like to clarify that. Would violation of the Railway Act and abuse of power by the NS, as stated in the ACM report, not have been sufficient for the Minister to take action? Does he not agree that this should have been something in which the Secretary of State should have had the sense of urgency as the Minister of Finance now does?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u154	Again, I think we should look back on that with the ACM. When can we now act on the basis of a report which is given to us in confidence or which is given to us for inspection? We were just discussing whether the Secretary of State could share this with the shareholder, who really has a different responsibility. Can we act immediately on a report which is still in a procedure of appeal and objection, of which the NS afterward, of course, we have been trying to prevent our reservations about this at that time? These are procedures you can run with the ACM. It is complicated at the stage when the ACM has taken a decision, but not yet publicly, and there are still objections and appeals to be made. Do you get to act all the time? At least I didn't have that information. I think it matters what type of measure you take. One thing is clear: 28 April was clear to me that compliance with laws and regulations, the integrity of this organisation, is not in order and is not guaranteed. That's in the organizational structure, but also in the culture. On the morning of 5 June it was clear to me that the CEO also had a personal responsibility in it, not a formal but a real personal responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u155	Thank you. Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u156	In any case, there are a lot of questions about who knew what when and why I was acting or not acting in my role as shareholder, already answered Mr Madlener in the event of interruption. Mr Bashir asked whether the Minister had given explicit permission to participate in the tender. That was not necessary in this case. The policy on when the NS can participate in regional procurement has been further strengthened. The Secretary of State will say more about that. It was evident, however, that the NS-daughter was allowed to bid on the concession in Limburg. It was not such a large investment that prior approval of the shareholder was required. We've been talking about it. However, we had no objection to it, of course under the assumption that this would be done neatly and fairly by the NS daughter. Following that, perhaps I can go straight to Mrs Van Tongeren's question. She said that the Court's report pointed out the vulnerability of the investment threshold being far too high. That's the old investment threshold. Strictly speaking, Mrs Van Tongeren is right. The articles of association of the NS state that only in the case of an investment greater than one third of the balance sheet total, which is the more than 2 billion that it referred to as "the shareholder's consent', is required. In last year's new memorandum on state participation, we have already found that this is a far too high threshold. We are now working for all state participations to adapt it by statute where necessary. The statutes of the NS still need to be formally amended. Mrs Van Tongeren is right about that. With the NS, however, immediately after the note was published, we agreed that we want to be really known, informed and involved in an investment of 200 million and above. We are going to formalise this in the statutes. However, the agreement has already been made and that is how we work.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u157	I'm glad to hear that from the Minister. This note will have escaped me, but I do have the fine little book from the Court of Auditors in front of me. What is the difference between ProRail with an investment threshold of 35 million and the NS with an investment threshold of 200 million?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u158	The NS is a State participation and is part of the equity policy. ProRail is a policy participation and falls under I and M. ProRail is also funded one-on-one from the budget of I and M, from the Infrafronds. State participations are run as companies. They have their own business operations and are allowed to invest out of their own profits and so on. They should also be able to build projects based on a business case. Nevertheless, I believe that the major investment made by Gasunie in a network in Germany has been the direct cause. That has opened our eyes too. They are very large and also risky investments. As a shareholder, we want to be involved in this. In the end, it is also about public assets built up in this state-owned company. The Court of Auditors' report is an excellent report, but it does not yet include all the new initiatives we have taken in the memorandum on state participation. Strictly speaking, the Court of Auditors may be right in parts. For example, the statutes of the NS have not been formally amended, but we are in the process of making changes. We have long discussed with the NS that in future we want to know and be involved in much lower amounts. The practice has thus already been adapted, but the procedure for amending the statutes and so on has yet to be formally completed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u159	We'd like to hear from the Minister when that's done. Will the other conclusions and recommendations concerning NS and ProRail also be adopted one-on-one? Or has that already happened in the note the Minister refers to?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u160	I am going to improvise, because I do not know all the conclusions and recommendations in the Court's reports by heart. But we are about to have a note-and-paper meeting on state participations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u161	On 24 June there will be a note consultation on state participations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u162	I thought this report was on the agenda there, too. I'm looking at the clerk for confirmation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u163	The clerk nods yes, so I assume that's the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u164	I will make sure that I have all the recommendations of the Court of Auditors in place. Mr. Chairman. Mr Bashir has asked: are there no abuses at Veolia and Abellio; why is there no investigation? Additional research is being carried out on Abellio. We do not currently have any evidence of abuses in other regional tenders. If there were any complaints, it would be up to the ACM to investigate other public transport providers in the region, but the ACM is independent. I have no reason to order investigations there, if I could.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u165	ACM should be a watchdog. She will read the newspaper herself, for example. There is extensive coverage of leaked e-mails from people from Arriva and Veolia or at least from FMN parties, who wrote that they were going to conspire against the NS. Then, of course, the question is why these signals are not being picked up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u166	I don't know if that's true. Again, the ACM is an independent supervisor. So I can't answer that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u167	Does the Minister agree with me that such signals give rise to at least a closer look at the situation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u168	I can't even say that. Again, the ACM is independent and decides itself when it considers that the Competition Act is being infringed or that otherwise cheated is being played in competitive situations. So I can't answer the question. I can't order the ACM to do research on the basis of newspaper reports. Mr. Chairman. The order is now in danger of becoming less logical. Questions have been asked about the role of the Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board is also late and not sufficiently informed. For example, the ACM report was shared with the Supervisory Board too late. That doesn't apply to the route of De Brauw's investigation. The Supervisory Board has always been kept informed of this. The Supervisory Board also informed me. ACM has always been kept small by the Board of Directors. It has always been said: it is all wrong; we are going to correct it all and we are going to object. In retrospect, we should not have accepted this and we should have asked through, but this is the role played by the board of directors. The complexity of this is that the documents were not shared with the shareholder at that stage. However, I insist that it is up to the Board of Directors to inform the Supervisory Board and the shareholder directly and fully about these serious matters. That didn't happen. We then worked well and closely with the Supervisory Board on the routes. The board has the same sense of urgency and is highly motivated to do the necessary interventions. I am thinking, for example, of the extension of the two-headed board, although formally still one-headed, because that is too risky. Mrs Van Veldhoven pointed out that this structure had only recently been created. There was another choice in that that I still defend on my own. Mr Huges has done really good things. Many MPs have said the same thing. That is also true. One of those good things is that he said that the NS should become one company and that he wanted to break through all those different tubes that work side by side. That's why he set up the structure at the top, with an executive committee, as it's called, with, above that, strictly formally, two statutory directors. That's narrow. Compliance and integrity were indeed invested with one of the two statutory directors, but in addition to his role as CFO. Given the situation we have found, and given the size of the company and the risks to it, together with the supervisory board, we believe that a third statutory director should be sidelined. We're not gonna completely break the structure. The renewal of Huges is in itself good, but the functions compliance and integrity are guaranteed at the level of the statutory director.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u169	First, a brief point of order. The Minister and the Secretary of State have answered 195 questions. The answers also give rise to many questions. There's no way we're gonna make it with four interruptions. I'll be brief, but I'll give you this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u170	I made it very clear at the beginning of the debate that I wanted to take a look at it. You haven't touched your four interruptions yet, so just wait and see. I'm looking for a proper relationship. I have listened carefully to the first-term input. I didn't hear a lot of technical questions come back there. At that time, however, they should have been put forward. Let us see where we come from, because there must be some sort of relationship. Ask your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u171	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks for the flexibility, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u172	Well. I said we're looking at it. So I haven't been flexible yet. If you think this is flexible, I'd like to take that as a compliment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u173	It's gonna come. I shall begin with the Minister's justified remark that Mr Huges has also done many good things. It has improved cooperation with the other parties. He really bet on a different positioning of the NS. It is right that we acknowledge this, but it went very wrong when it came to compliance. If the culture is that 80% of the truth is also the truth, it's not going well. Compliance in the company was neatly arranged on paper. About every department had a compliance officer. This is also apparent from the answer given to the questions. If the culture within the company is so that 80% of the truth is also the truth, a study of compliance and possible abuses in other procurements and other persons who may have become involved than by the company itself should be done...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u174	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u175	... or would it be okay for an external agency to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u176	It's done by an external agency.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u177	Excellent. I think that's very important. The report will, I presume, also be sent to the public and will be sent to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u178	It's done by two external agencies. I wrote a name somewhere. At least it's about Alvares. Those agencies deal with forensic accountancy, among other things. On behalf of the Supervisory Board, I think that is important, because I really want to keep the board in position. Those agencies go through the whole compliance, how it is secured and how it is arranged in the company. Then they'll come up with that investigation. I will, of course, send that to the Chamber, confidentially if necessary. I cannot see that at the moment, but the Chamber must have access to it. If Mrs Van Veldhoven wants me to draw this to me, I won't. The relationship is real: the supervisory board oversees the management of the company. I want to keep the council in position. On the basis of the report, we will draw up a final plan on what is needed. Apart from the ideological discussion about market forces or not, I have absolutely no feelings for the argument that, if you have market forces, you get these kinds of abuses. I'm sorry, I don't believe in that. Also with market forces, you have to follow the same rules as in any company. Every company in the Netherlands has to follow the rules. Compliance is standard and must be of high level. The research will only be published later this year; it will not really appear before the summer. Because I want it to be done right. Then I will give the Chamber the report and also inform her of the final plan to ensure the integrity of this entire organization much better.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u179	On that point, the Minister and I agree. That's good. However, I have doubts about the view that the Supervisory Board should be responsible for the investigation. We see a sum of incidents and a cultural problem. In view of the fact that some members of the Supervisory Board have been there for a long time, should we not be careful whether the Supervisory Board was not part of the culture? If you sit on the board of directors of a company for ten years, you will remain completely spared, so I would rhetorically ask the Minister. Wouldn't it be wise, then, to have that investigation carried out entirely independently outside the company, with a fresh look from the outside, under the responsibility of the Minister? Of course, we must then put the Supervisory Board back in a good position by showing it how it is implemented, because that is its role. However, the investigation must be completely independent.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u180	With this kind of thing, it's like this: you have faith in it or not. This is about the role of the Supervisory Board. I have faith in their role. I think they can. I have seen how they have acted on these facts over the past month, as the various facts became clear to them. They have done quite a bit of rücksichtslos. I think they are extremely keen on that. That is why I do not want to take away responsibility for what will be the next steps either. However, as with De Brauw's research, I will constantly look into whether it is being done properly, whether it is being properly decorated, or whether it is being thought of everywhere. Is the role of the Supervisory Board also being considered, for example? That is also part of compliance and integrity. We have also agreed with the Supervisory Board that a third expert will be added to this research office, to watch with them constantly and to comment in the vein of: think about this, beware of this and so on. So there's gonna be some kind of outboard engine to keep the investigation sharp. That third expert shall be appointed in consultation with Finance. So we are very closely involved, but I do not want the Supervisory Board to be "out of bounds," because I would say to them: I have no confidence in it anymore. That's really not the issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u181	The way I read it now, it's still the NS client. Under NS, I mean the company NS and not the board of directors.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u182	Explicitly the board of directors. It also reports to the Supervisory Board in a closed session. This means that the researchers will report their findings to the Supervisory Board without the directors. So they don't have to go to the board first. The board won't be there either. They will report directly to the Supervisory Board. That's the deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u183	The VVD, like D66, intends to launch an external, independent investigation. We attach great importance to this, especially after all the facts that have become known. The question is, therefore, whether independence is sufficiently secured in this way. The Minister's guessing it is. We also read that De Brauw, the permanent house lawyer and advisor of the NS, is also carrying out part of the research. Isn't there some connection between the agency and the company? Another agency, Movares, is also going to do an investigation. Are they not the permanent advisor to the NS? In that case too, we attach ourselves to a truly independent investigation by a company that was not until then the permanent advisor to the NS. This leads to the intertwining of individuals, information and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u184	De Brauw has indeed done assignments for the NS before. You can say a lot about their research, but not that they're not trying to get the bottom stone up. This also happens without anyone being spared. The fact-finding complex which they have uncovered has led to the departure of the CEO. So I have no reason to doubt whether they are doing their job in depth, hard and sharp enough. That report's almost done. I don't think it makes much sense to have that done again, but by another party. That report is very revealing. The other report is carried out by forensic specialists who are not the permanent advisor to the NS and are highly experienced in the field of compliance, integrity and so on. They're gonna take a second look at it. They do so on behalf of the Supervisory Board, but of course they do so independently. It's an independent agency that gets the assignment. If we now say that we do not want the Supervisory Board to be involved, we are asking a question of trust, and I do not think that is right. The Supervisory Board was not sufficiently informed by the Management Board in the initial period. That should have been much more explicit. As the Supervisory Board has received and claimed information in recent weeks, it has acted adequately.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u185	Then the point remains that the CFO was apparently the client of the first part of the investigation. We cannot deny that this investigation has produced such facts that you do not have to wonder whether independence is at stake. We're gonna have to do it with that investigation. However, the investigation itself should not become a subject of discussion. That is why it is so important that independence is guaranteed. I see the Minister thinks it's enough. The CFO has appointed the Examination Office and is probably still involved in the investigation itself. It concerns the whole of the NS and the Minister's words do not lie about it. I'll take it for a while, but the independence must be secured. What about the other desk, Movares? Isn't that desk the NS's permanent advisor?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u186	I have already answered that question: it is not. At the time when the CFO, resulting from the ACM study, was confronted with the e-mails from which the construction of the ex-Veoliamed worker appeared, he took action. That's how it's supposed to be in a company. If you see any abuses, you'll have them investigated yourself. You're not gonna sit on your hands and tell someone to come from outside to take over. The CFO set the investigation in motion by law firm De Brauw. Again, that report is nothing refreshing and revealing. The Ministry of Finance is also involved in De Brauw's investigation, but certainly also in the second investigation. We look along with the mission and look at the way in which independence is secured. We have agreed that a third expert will be added to reflect on the investigation and assess whether it is deep and independent enough. That's an extra guarantee. We made this agreement as a shareholder with the Supervisory Board. I think we should do it this way. I think the quality of the research is the least of the problems in this whole complex. Both ACM and De Brauw's and forensic researchers' research is extremely good.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u187	The Minister just said that the Supervisory Board has been so sharp. I'm questioning that. Given everything that's happened within the NS, you might be wondering who's been sleeping. I hear all the time when the Supervisory Board and the Ministries are informed. However, it is a matter of bringing and fetching. If there were now a lot of companies of this size of which we were 100% shareholders, I would understand. But I think there's only one thing we're so full of. Does the Minister agree with me that it is a matter of bringing and fetching? If the Minister knows that there is a lot at stake, that there is a lot of emotion and commotion about it in the Chamber, isn't that a reason to actively get information?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u188	This is how we start the debate all over again. I have outlined at what point we have received certain information and at what point we have asked for it. I also mentioned the order in which we informed the Chamber and announced the first steps. We haven't been on our hands till Friday. If that's what you think, you're doing the fact-finding complex to use that word again... injustice. It is therefore true that the Supervisory Board should ask questions. The same applies to the shareholder. However, you do this not haphazardly, but on the basis of information and findings that come to light at some point. That's something that's happened over the past few months. Make no mistake: the fraud, the malpractices, the violation of laws all happened in the period before that. It didn't all go on when we already had information. It happened in the months before that. In the last few weeks, these studies have reached full maturity and we have acted.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u189	That's actually the question. It is always said, and the Minister says it again: we have asked on, but you have to do so on the basis of the facts you are getting. However, there are also facts that you can hear in the press or elsewhere that make you aware that something is wrong. That's not something from the last few months. In 2013, a motion had already been tabled in the Chamber requesting that the NS should not take over Qbuzz, because that would be better. In 2014, the province of Limburg adopted a motion asking for a level playing field because the NS did not. She asked the cabinet to act. There are a number of times when the Minister knew what to do. My question is this. Everyone wonders, but nobody dares ask that question. The task of the NS shareholder is very important and heavy. In all honesty, I ask the Minister: does he think, given all the other tasks he has, including outside the Netherlands, in Europe, that he can devote enough time and attention to the Dutch Railways?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u190	It is even worse than Mr Van Helvert suspects. The NS is not the only large company in which the State is in this size. The State is 100% shareholder of a series of companies. That is what the State remains, because there are great public interests in it that we cannot only guarantee by law and regulation. My people are very closely involved in that. They follow that. Once again, we are not responsible for the day-to-day operation, because then you have to make it an official service. These are companies. They need to be run as a company. We bring in people who have those abilities. Part of this capacity is to inform the supervisory board and sometimes even the shareholder in good time when important things are going on or when there are major risks. That has happened too late in this matter. There's no question about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u191	There is another issue: the purchase of the Sprinters. It appears to have been a bribe. Besides the summit of the NS, we also saw the summit of Qbuzz, which said: it was a sort of consultation. It feeds the idea that there is not just an incident here, but that there really is a culture within the top of power abuse, bribery, market manipulation. Veolia filed a report. The State's Attorney General's office is now investigating whether criminal offences have been committed. Has the Minister reported possible criminal offences and does he see any connection between the bribery of the Sprinters and this issue?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u192	That's hard for me to say. The bribery in the purchase of the Sprinters is really a completely different matter. An external consultant was paid for information by a company that might be interested in supplying that equipment. This person had worked for the NS in the past, but was now involved as an external consultant. That is a very different situation from this situation, in which we see, in a procurement process throughout the organisation, up to the top of the NS, that careless, incorrect and even contrary to the law is being done. It all comes together and it all adds up in the picture, but it is a different case. I do not know whether this case has been reported, and I may be able to come back to that in the second term, but that is obvious. In the case-Limburg, the D.A. was informed on 28 April. The district attorney's office is considering whether criminal prosecution should be involved. This is still a preliminary investigation phase. Of course, I'm not going to do that. The D.A.'s office has been briefed by the NS itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u193	So there was no report made by the shareholder, by the Minister. Why not?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u194	That is not necessary if the NS itself has informed the prosecution about the abuses, the malpractices that have been raised there. It doesn't make much sense if I do. Once again, Mr Madlener must realise that the role of the shareholder is different from that of an official service. It is an independent company with independent powers. If things don't go well, I'll take action. That happened last week.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u195	Maybe I'm early with my question. I asked a question in the first place about the role of the CFO now. He was the one who raised everything, but he is now in a difficult position, because he is now both CEO and CFO and CEO of Abellio. Of course, need breaks the law, but it's not a desirable situation. How does the Minister intend to deal with that further?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u196	That answer was still in my stack. I hadn't gotten to it yet. We will find an interim solution to this as soon as possible, because Mr Hoogland is right to say that too much rolling is part of the problem. The solution that we had to reach on Friday is really an emergency solution. We hope to attract an interim director as soon as possible. Then we can solve that again. And of course, new drivers need to come in multiple places. This is going to take longer, but we are looking for an interim solution to this risk. Then, if you don't mind, I wanted to switch to the future: what does all this mean for the NS and for the role, structure and ambitions of the NS? Several Members of Parliament have said that we should look closely at this. Some already made a judgment or a wish in that regard. We have not yet reached that stage, even though it was only in the light of the opinions of the First Chamber. He has said: if you are going to make decisions about this kind of thing, at least do it carefully; weigh all public interests. That is what we will do. This concerns the whole complex of the structure of the NS with its subsidiaries and subsidiaries, which are domestic and foreign engaged in commercial market activities. That's about what those NS-daughters still have to be active in. That's about the fact that the NS also manages the stations. By the way, we must not only think about the buildings or platforms, which are indeed ProRail's, but also about the services. All these things we're gonna face. I will, of course, talk to the NS about this myself, but in the end I will come back to the Chamber to see how the NS would like it and how the shareholder would like it. You also have to think about the question: if you take the stations off, do you take off all the services, such as the information, the electronic posts and all the amenities and services offered by the NS on and around the station? How are you supposed to split it up? After all, these systems are in one system that is switched with all the stations. So you can't just take the stations off in Limburg, as one of the members suggested. At least let us look carefully at that. I think it would be unwise for us now, on the basis of what is going on here, to take decisions on the way in which we set up our rail and rail companies, on the structure, and then to have another parliamentary survey on the question in ten years' time: how is it possible for you to separate this part again or to separate it there again? We really need to think this through. The fact that there is a vulnerability in the way it is now regulated, as several Members have argued, is absolutely true. This vulnerability should in all cases be addressed at least within the company. That's gonna take you a long way. Whether we can get far enough, we are going to look at it now. Otherwise further measures will have to be taken in the structure, in the job definition and possibly in the ambition of the NS or its daughters.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u197	I would like to congratulate the Minister on the way in which he conducts this part of the debate. He refers to care, to the report of the First Chamber and to safeguarding public interests, and says that we should not take an ad hoc decision. My group very much agrees with that. I do have one more question. The letter states that, of course, the NS itself has views and is also working on a vision of the regional rail system. That's just been memorized. How do these two relate to each other? How does the vision which the Minister is perhaps planning to develop relate to that, at least we shall ask him to take account of the vision that the NS is developing?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u198	It may sound a little arrogant, but given this situation, the vision of the shareholder will ultimately determine this, because otherwise the NS will turn into new vulnerabilities because of its conflicting interests. This is done in close coordination with the policy department, because it must also fit into the policy and framework of the market organisation, as I and M have laid down. We will now look very closely at how we prevent the NS from encountering itself and thereby creating new risks in the future. However, I will certainly not deny the NS to develop its own opinion on this, because I think this should be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u199	I understand very well that the NS itself has views on this. I think it's good that we hear them, too. But I think it is very important that the government develops a vision of the positioning of the NS from its shareholdership. Let us not turn the whole system upside down on the basis of this incident, however annoying it may be. Let us organise the system together in such a way that we can prevent such incidents. I hope that the Minister will put this in order for the Chamber so that perhaps at the end of this year, if there is a report from the Fyra Committee of Inquiry, we can discuss it further.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u200	I'd be happy to say so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u201	I too am very pleased with the Minister's answer, but I do have a question, inter alia, on what I said in my first term and also on what the Minister just said. He said: we need to see how we can do this wisely. In his letter, the Minister wrote quite clearly that a 100% state company should not look up the edges of the law and that the Irish construction should not be allowed either. By doing so, the Minister already states that the NS, also in the form of a subsidiary competing on the railways, must comply with a higher moral standard than Starbucks, for example. Is that true or is the Minister going to think about the way we should do it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u202	I am going to think about that. Several Members have also asked for it on the market organization. You can think differently about the market organization. The Secretary of State will say something about this later. The market organisation is now: main rail network, concessions and the NS subsidiary is allowed to compete on some concessions. Within the concession, the NS can make all kinds of choices. We can think about how we structure the NS holding with all its tasks. We can also think about the ambition with which the NS will participate in these concessions in the future. Maybe you should quit altogether. We can all hold that against the light. We can see whether this can be carefully arranged, so in a way that indeed leads to a level playing field and not to all kinds of integrity risks etc. The Secretary of State will discuss the discussion on market forces. Some people would have liked to have market forces and others would have said: had we had no market power at all, because then there would have been no problem. That is a question of order. Now I come to my view on the limits of the law. The NS is a large, dominant player on the track and also a state-owned company. Of course, the NS can't break the law. I also believe that this applies to all companies, but I believe that this is certainly true for companies for which I am responsible as a shareholder. I don't think companies should look up the boundaries of the law. The fiscal construction is an example of this. It's perfectly legal. Nothing bad happened there. It's not fraud et cetera. But the consequence is that the NS pays less tax in the Netherlands and in other places where it operates concessions. You can say: cardigan pocket pocket; it comes back in profit. But that's not how we're supposed to do it. So we have now made agreements with the NS so that this will be phased out. That is my view. In any case, I believe that companies should not seek the limits of the law, but a state-owned company for which the government is responsible, because I am also responsible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u203	I think this is causing a great deal of confusion for all state-owned companies. They simply have to comply with the law like all other companies. It's clear to everyone that you can't break the law, but you have to act within the law. However, there are two types of rules for companies. Ordinary companies are allowed to do anything within the law. But state-owned companies must have a sense that a certain legal construction is allowed and that another, also legal, construction should not be allowed. However, in the Chamber, these companies are charged on the cost per passenger kilometre and on the improvement of the return on capital. They are therefore treated with harsh criteria here, while the minister of these companies, not only from the NS but from all state-owned companies, is asking to comply with slightly higher standards. I am very curious about the conversation with EBN about this. I would like to have a further clarification of those higher standards, because then the state-owned companies will know what they have to comply with from now on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u204	You can't paint that with a ruler. Again, I don't like constructions that look up the edges of the law. If state-owned companies have doubts about whether the Minister will allow anything, they can report to me and I will think along with them. I understand that Mrs Van Tongeren's theorem is: if you have market forces, you get this kind of behavior. I'm fighting that thesis. That is what we disagree on. Competition can also take place in a fair manner. What happened here is unfair. On some points it was in direct violation of the law and on some points the tension with the law had been sought. Mrs Van Tongeren herself said that the Railway Act is not equally clear and clear on all points. We can also say that the ruling of ACM has created further clarity for the future. I believe that NS, with its great, dominant role and an obvious, direct public service mission, should take up that task with integrity. This means, for example, that other market participants should not be dependent on information or a binding bid from NS. I don't think it's the right attitude when the CEO of NS, a large company with a public mandate, sends the signal to his employees: as little as possible, as late as possible and above all not give them an advantage. This public service mission also means that there are services to be provided to others at the stations. This must be done in a fair and fair way. We have a right to information and we have a right to an offer. NS should not do this as minimally and as late as possible, with half figures. That's what NS has to do, because that's her legal assignment. There is always a need to consider whether things are still in accordance with the law. However, I do not think that we should look at the edges of the law. That is my view.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u205	The Minister states in his letter that the Chinese wall should be firmer or higher. However, there is already a Chinese wall in the form of several e.g. in which the activities are housed. It has been shown that this is totally insufficient to ensure a level playing field. That is the responsibility of the Secretary of State, who will say something about it later, but also the responsibility of the Minister. He too must take into account how he deals with it in his weighting. It is not clear to me what the Minister is going to do now. The Chinese wall needs to be raised, but how does he see it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u206	In part, the research of the forensic auditors deals with this. They are going to look very closely at how things are organized, how they work and how they are handled. For example, you can agree that certain activities are housed in another e.g., but if information is constantly exchanged between those e.g., also information that is business confidential and cannot be shared in the context of a bid, then the question is whether it is recorded somewhere that you are not allowed to share such information. An information request from Veolia must not end up with Abellio. The second question is why it is happening, despite the fact that it is not allowed. In this context, it is important to determine whether a company is well structured in terms of structure, whether the protocols, internal rules and compliance are in order. Is this compliance also being respected? Is there perhaps a culture that starts at the top in this case, as we have been able to see on the basis of which it is said: we are doing it anyway; we are going to serve the other parties as little as possible and as late as possible and we are making them a worse offer than we are making our own subsidiary? All these aspects will be exposed in the investigation. This should lead to improvements. I'll let the Chamber know exactly what that's gonna look like.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u207	This means that there may be more rules. But even now there are rules, but they have not been complied with. So even more rules do not guarantee the future. I wish it were. Isn't it better for us to work this out? Can we not look together for and open to new solutions? We have talked about separating stations. The Christian Union spoke about contracting in the way it goes in England. We want to take a much broader look at all the options so that we can deal with the future at once and market forces in the regions. The latter is not the case now, otherwise we would not have had to have this debate. D66 and the VVD are considering submitting a motion together on this point. We will see if we can appreciate that with each other. Perhaps the Minister can take over a number of matters.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u208	I just promised I'd take a broader look. Whatever parts you divide and how you might want to reduce the role of the NS...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Mrs De Boer cannot disagree with that. Her follow-up question is if that's enough. I said that we are going to look at the structure of the company and the tasks. Should the NS still have the ambition to, et cetera, et cetera? I have already promised to do so on questions from Mrs Dik and Mrs Van Veldhoven. In fact, the whole Chamber has asked for a good and comprehensive look at the risks and how to address them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u209	The ACM report also makes it very clear that there is cross-subsidisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u210	Where do you read that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u211	That's what I read in the ACM report. That's just what it says. Abellio has an advantage because certain services and services do not need to be created, because they are already there. That has been said, and that is also mentioned in the report. This means that there is cross-subsidisation. Does the Minister include this in his research into the structure, etc.? How can you prevent that within one holding company? In my view, that's not possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u212	That's what we're taking with us. By the way, at the request of the VVD, we have already carried out an extensive investigation into cross-subsidisation. That's what an AO is planning to do, so we'll talk about it anyway. If we want to create a fair playing field, we have to face the risks in full width. I've answered a lot of questions with that. Mr Hoogland has asked for the distinction between the public, private and hybrid in order to examine these tasks and to see how such division or mixing can be addressed. Mr Bashir asked about the salary of the NS summit. That has been adjusted downwards a number of times. We've established a new remuneration policy. The predecessor of Mr Huges earned €750,000. Mr Meerstadt went to €710,000. Mr Huge's salary was reduced to €499,000 and flexible remuneration was reduced to 20%. On the basis of the new remuneration policy, we will also be looking for a new top man or woman. I know that some groups believe that these should be brought under the Law on Standards, i.e. the beaming standard. The cabinet has a different view on this. We have these companies as companies and we want to attract people who have the capacity to run large companies. So we must also partly look at the salaries in the market, without taking over the overstretched salaries sometimes paid in the market. Mr Madlener asked whether Mr Huges would not receive an early retirement allowance and no retirement allowance, with a whole series of comments. Mr Huges does not receive any departure allowance or any other compensation as far as I am concerned. The Supervisory Board has said that it will follow that line. Mr Bashir asked another question about the role of the deputy Koopmans. Allow me to make a comment on this. I thought that was an unpleasant remark. Mr Koopmans does not play any part in this dossier. He is not responsible for this issue as a deputy, but he did get a sneak from Mr Bashir that things would have gone that way in Limburg, because Mr Koopmans had a position with Arriva in the past. I do not think that these kinds of comments should be made so easily and should at least not remain undisputed. I have no reason to suspect that the decision of the province of Limburg has been influenced by functions from the past by a deputy who is not even responsible for this. Those suggestions are made too easily. This is extremely damaging to the person concerned and really unnecessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u213	The minister says I suggested things. I didn't suggest anything, I just asked questions. Can the Minister put his hand into the fire that whatever he says is right, that there is no apparent conflict of interest at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u214	Mr President, this is too easy for me. You'll have to intervene if things get out of hand. If it is suggested that the province of Limburg has granted the concession to another party, to Arriva, without much delay, because one of the delegates, Mr Koopmans, has had a role there as Commissioner in the past, I find that totally unfounded. That's just a damaging, insinuating remark. Mr Bashir can say that it was not a comment but a question, but I do not think it is chic, I do not think it is fair and I do not think that we should deal with each other in this way. There will really have to be more substance underneath before you bring these kinds of suggestions into a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u215	I would appreciate it if we stopped mentioning the names of people who do not participate in the debate, even if it is an old chamber member and we are used to mentioning his name here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u216	The deputy Finance of the province of Limburg was until the day before he was appointed, Commissioner at Arriva...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u217	This is really complicated for me. Mrs Van Veldhoven also made a comment on this and...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u218	I'm even going to table a motion on this, because I want this sorted out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u219	Let me make a point of order. It is really very complicated to have a debate about individuals who are not here to defend themselves and who are not the subject of the debate. In no way is this individual able to defend himself other than that Mrs Van Veldhoven and the minister stand up for him. If we have to talk about this, it has to be done in a different way, in a way that does justice to the position of this person and not in this way. It's uncomfortable for everyone and it's not good for the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u220	I'll do my best. Then I shall put another question: would it not have been better if the province had waited for the answers sent by the cabinet to the Chamber or, for example, for this debate before deciding on granting the concession to Arriva?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u221	No. The province is the competent authority. It shall decide on the granting of the concession. That is what we have always called the province of Limburg, also as a shareholder or as a policy manager for the market organization. It is really up to the province to decide on a concession in a tendering procedure. In all its decisions, it has been given jurisdiction and it does not have to wait for debates in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u222	I asked another question about the pass at the NS site. I had hoped that the Minister of Finance would have responded to that. Would it be right for the NS to make a pass on current tenders now, until the whole thing is in order? There are also uncertainties in Overijssel, where the award is just before the award.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u223	I have two comments to make. We cannot push the province of Overijssel aside and say that the procedure must be stopped or that it must take a decision. However, we will ask the researchers to look at current concessions as a matter of priority. If they have the impression that the NS has acted unfairly, we will respond immediately. For the time being, we have no indication of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u224	Thank you, that's clear. The province of Overijssel must do it. Of course, it is also the question of what the province of Overijssel can do. The answer to the questions states that the province may exclude the NS if the irregularities can be classified as "a serious error in the exercise of the profession'. That is why I am curious to see how the Minister and Secretary of State Mansveld qualify the irregularities that have now been detected. If they qualify as a serious error in the exercise of the profession, the province of Overijssel has at least a basis on which it can make an assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u225	Then we have to be precise. I have highly qualified the behaviour of NS in the concession for Limburg, but it is very doubtful whether that is sufficient legal ground.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. So I'm not gonna improvise on that right now. We're looking at the behavior of the NS and the NS daughters in the ongoing procedure. Should there be cause for this, we will also inform the province and if necessary we will act ourselves. We do not have that reason at the moment, but we are going to look at it as a matter of priority.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u226	In this case, I think it is not just a question of a legal situation, but also of what is appropriate at the moment. It could help the province of Overijssel or perhaps even the NS itself in their consideration if it is clear how appropriate the Minister, the Secretary of State and the Chamber find it if the NS makes a pass on the tenders until the whole culture is in order. We have seen that this culture is not in order. Does the Minister also think it would be appropriate for the NS to reconsider the tender in Overijssel?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u227	We must realise that we are depriving the province of Overijssel of an option, while it is the competent authority in this matter. Moreover, it does not serve competition in advance, which is then simply narrower on that concession. In whose interest is that? We are now investigating what happened in Limburg. That is extremely serious; there is no doubt about that. But is it a pattern that we have seen in other concessions too, will see or can see now? If so, we'll act on it immediately, but I'm not ready to draw that conclusion right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u228	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Chamber for the questions. I start with the system responsibility I have as a concession provider to the NS but also on the whole rail. As the Minister for Finance has already pointed out and concluded, the events in Limburg are unacceptable. I look at this from my role as a concession provider, but also of course from the interests of the traveller. The decision of the ACM and the NS' internal investigation into the irregularities show that things have happened that are not acceptable. It also shows that the system worked. The ACM acted in this case. I have been asked for my response as a system operator for public transport in the Netherlands. The first comment that struck me was that of Mr Madlener. He made it very clear that we need to act in purity of roles. I think that is a difficult term, but as a system operator, I think it is my responsibility to ensure that everyone takes up their responsibilities and roles in such a way that there is a public transport network serving only one party, the traveller. We know the system of direct award for the main rail network and mandatory tendering for concessions for regional rail transport. This is also in line with the European PCA regulation. I have expressly confirmed that line in the Long Term Track Agenda. Two parties, Mrs De Boer and Mrs Van Veldhoven, have mentioned the experience of decentralisation. According to them, it has had a very positive effect. A better transport offer has been achieved. The amenities level has been extended on most lines and there is quite new material. The regional authorities are best aware of the needs of the regional traveller and know how to match them with the rest of them. I would also refer to the taxi debate, in which we see that all the modalities need to be properly aligned to ensure that everything in the region can be literally secured up to home. There are several role holders in such a system, who together have to ensure that all these concessions add up to an O.V. network. I have already said that 'public transport' is a term that we may not have to use in the future, but rather a network of modalities to serve the traveller. I am also responsible for the quality and continuous improvement of transport on the main rail network. The regional authorities use the decentralised lines, are responsible for ensuring that these tenders are carried out in accordance with the rules and guarantee their importance. Mr Bashir asked about the importance of the citizen and the traveller. Limburg decided yesterday, I believe, to grant the concession to Arriva and Arriva also offered well above the criteria. So in that sense, I think the traveler is well served, when I look at it from the perspective of that traveler. I am also confident that the Deputy and Provincial States of Limburg and Overijssel, for example, which are now up-to-date with the calls for tenders, are taking or have taken very careful decisions. That's exactly how we set it up. The Christian Union has asked for the one-stop shop. I think it's important that it's decentralised. For the decentralised concessions there is that window. The Minister has just said something about Zwolle-Enschede. The call for tenders is ongoing. The NS signed up for this together with Syntus and Arriva. I think it is very important that both Deputy States and Provincial States of Overijssel are put in a position to complete that tender. I very much agree with the Minister of Finance that it is important to give priority to that part of the investigation, to at least put Overijssel in a position where she can make her own choices. That is in the interests of the traveller. A level playing field is part of the competition network. As we all know, that is a tough condition for me too. I propose rules for that playing field and the ACM supervises that. Mrs Van Tongeren in particular asked for that level playing field. I also look forward to improving that playing field at national level. We have also made a number of new agreements on this. I refer to the recasting directives. The NS and ProRail will provide more transparency about the provision of services. Here comes that window again, that is the website and the pooling of information, which the Christian Union in particular has asked for. I also mention the measures under the Better and More Programme of the NS and ProRail and the service desk where carriers and other parties can go for information. In addition, an independent complaints committee has been set up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u229	I have a clarifying question. The Secretary of State embraces the idea of a counter. I think this is really necessary. Looking at what went wrong with this tender, you have to note that the questions of regional carriers to the NS went through the organisation to the highest peak, the CEO. Of course, that cannot be the intention. So somewhere there must be a window, so to speak with Chinese walls around it, so that the requests for information can be dealt with properly there. Apparently, this is not because these requests have passed through different business lines of the NS.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u230	I have to ask Mrs Dik-Faber a few moments ago what she means by that point of contact. There's a complaints committee. I see a point of contact in a website where that information can be obtained.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u231	What point of contact do you mean, Mrs. Dik?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u232	If there is a multi-party tender, some parties are dependent on certain objective data that the NS has and which they can request from the NS. If this happens, the NS must, of course, deal with it purely and it cannot be that such requests will then continue with the entire organisation until they end up with the subsidiary, the competitor of the contracting parties. That is what has happened. So how can we prevent that in the future? Shouldn't there be a window with those Chinese walls?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u233	It is important that each organisation has its own point of contact when it is in a tender. Of course, that does not necessarily have to be the Dutch Railways. It may also be an invitation to tender already invested in another party, which then has to provide the information. So I think it is important that every organisation should ensure that the information becomes available in an honest manner. For example, we have also created a station website for cases where it is about that information. I think that should be invested in the organization and not in a third place. Then I come to the implementation of the recasting directive. A number of parties have asked for this. As far as I am concerned, the recast directive strengthens the position of the ACM and makes transparency about services and services an obligation. Furthermore, where a party offers the services and facilities and has a dominant position, further requirements may be made in the form of a Chinese wall or a Chinese wall. I'm going back to the debate. A number of people have asked me about ex ante surveillance. One of them was Mrs De Boer, who also tabled the amendment. We have had this debate twice, and last week I indicated that it was concluded as far as I am concerned. An amendment has also been adopted. I have argued that I do not think it is right that we should turn a blind eye to European policy. I believe that the system, as we set it up with the role of the ACM, is well designed in this way. It has finally become a narrowed amendment. That is why I did not advise the two amendments that it should not be a national head. In the meantime, the amendment has been adopted and it will have its effect in the law. But I've made that argument twice before. The situation that has now arisen and the information that is available have not changed the argument of the national head. Then I'll get to the ACM. The Netherlands knows the ACM as an independent supervisor. She's checking to see if there's a violation of the Rail Code. The regulator ACM found in the report that the Railway Act has been breached in a number of respects. The regulator designated in the system did his job. The safety net worked, too. A complaint was filed. It was followed by the ACM. This was, of course, done after the behavior or errors had actually taken place, as my colleague has already pointed out. The supervisory board and the shareholder have been able to take up their role, partly as a result of the work of the supervisor. I would like to say the following about whether or not action should have been taken earlier. I wrote in my letter of 18 March that I could not disclose the ACM's report because I was not allowed to influence the course of justice. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Ik kon niet anders dan het voor kennisgeving aannemen.]] I can't, and I don't want to violate those rules of justice either. In addition, I am not involved in the individual cases, precisely because of the role of the ACM. That is what the Chamber itself has explicitly asked for. The CDA Group's remark that I would not have acted, I therefore oppose it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u234	The Secretary of State doesn't fight it at all. She's just saying why she didn't do anything and why that would be right. What's happening now is actually about that. Therefore, hear the following facts: I ask the Secretary of State to respond to them. I will give you an example of a moment when the Secretary of State could and should have anticipated. The province of Limburg writes a letter to the State Secretary in late spring 2014 that she is concerned about the level playing field. First, a director of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs sends him not much later to become director of NS, but that by the way, a letter is sent back to the province, in which he says: it will be okay, the Minister of Finance is investigating the level playing field. In my view, the director referred to the Ecorys report, which states that there is an additional risk of an uneven playing field in these interweaving areas. After that, the Secretary of State himself sent a letter to the province. In that, she states: I feel responsible and I ensure a level playing field. Now there is no level playing field and the Secretary of State says that the system has worked. In my view, that is really turning things upside down and really not showing any involvement. How does the Secretary of State react from that point of view?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u235	Apart from the fact that I'm only halfway through my answer, the following. The way we organized it is the way we agreed. If a party fails to comply and acts in such a way that serious abuses are discovered, you can create any system you want, but then no system will work. The intention is that at the moment when people do not behave in accordance with the agreements that have been made, there can be a complaint procedure and intervention. That's exactly what happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u236	We can mention all the rules and say: these are the rules and that is how we have acted. If an involved Secretary of State, who says that she feels responsible for that level playing field and who gets signals from different sides that there is a fear that there will be no level playing field, then he does not actively take the lead and actively contact interested parties if there are signals, then it does indeed go wrong. The question is why the Secretary of State has not felt the responsibility to contact interested parties actively in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u237	To the question of how the process went, I will reply in this way in my speech. There's two things going on. We have had an explicit debate over the last few weeks on this level playing field, on the recasting directive and on the issues that need to be changed in order to ensure this even better. Then it's about station information and so on. On that point we have acted, also actively. However, the tender itself is a matter for the province. I do not want to take it off and leave the province alone, but what I have just argued is important. Limburg and Overijssel are now being put into their own power and we are allowing the democracy of Provincial States and Deputy States to work, but also the system of a decentralised concession as we have set it up. So I am fighting both points that the CDA points out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u238	Mrs Van Veldhoven also has a question on this point. She just called for my flexibility. I'm going to show it now, but there's an end to that and this is pretty much the end. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u239	If we can stick to "about the end," we'll get there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u240	Of course, you still have a second term. That's what I'm referring to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u241	The Secretary of State just said about the ACM's report that she couldn't do otherwise, that she couldn't make it public. But that wasn't necessarily the question. The most important question is why she did not share it with the shareholder, with her colleague from Finance. Has the Secretary of State checked with the ACM whether she could share this report, which must have been burned in her hands, with the shareholder?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u242	The shareholder has just answered a number of questions. I received a letter from the ACM stating that it was a first, complete, confidential version, intended solely for the Secretary of State and not specifically for publication. The same letter states that the NS and Veolia received different versions of that decision. I took it that way. The Minister of Finance has just indicated that it is a good thing that we have a discussion with the ACM on how to deal with these kinds of sentences. Both I and the Ministry of Finance have understood it in this way, also in view of the fact that there was the possibility of appeal and objection for a number of days and that two court cases were also announced, one on the procedure and one on the content. So I took this sentence very literally. I can't communicate about anything that's under the judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u243	But this wasn't under the judge yet. This report is explosive. The decision states that a state-owned company has broken the law. And then the Secretary of State doesn't want to share that with the shareholder? That seems very special to me. When it comes to such a report, with such conclusions, do you explicitly ask the ACM if you can at least share that with the shareholder? Why didn't the Secretary of State have that reflection?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u244	There's been reflection on the Railway Act. We've been looking at what happened and what's going to be in the final report. After all, there is a procedure under which the NS also has the opportunity to react. That procedure has already started. That is how we have read this sentence. Everything's already happened. We will ensure that the process is as pure as possible. That is why I was displeased with the fact that Veolia sent me the report. Veolia has also been given confidentiality. I think it is good to deal with this carefully and therefore wait for the steps to be taken. That's what I informed the Chamber on March 18th.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u245	If you saw all these things separately, as the Secretary of State now answers the questions separately, you would indeed always say: that's right, the rule is so; it's a good thing the Secretary of State did it this way. But things are not separate from each other. It concerns a series of events and a series of bodies and people who have called on the State Secretary because they are concerned about the level playing field. The ACM, which gave the confidential report to the Secretary of State, had already announced on 27 June 2014 I say it out of my mind already that there was no level playing field in Limburg. The report by Ecorys following the investigation commissioned by the Minister of Finance states that there was a risk of infringements in relation to the interrelated issues. With this background and in view of the appeal made by the Province of Limburg and the regional carriers to the State Secretary, I ask the Secretary of State why she has remained passive. Where was her involvement? Why didn't she actively try to prevent something?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u246	I've already answered that. I think it is important that Limburg be placed in the position to run the tender. We have also discussed a number of interventions in recent weeks. In particular, the recasting directive was included. Mr Van Helvert himself has been there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u247	The Secretary of State doesn't answer my questions. She's just saying that there are some rules and points to what we've shared here. I would like to give another example to the Secretary of State, with the question of how she responds to it. The ACM sent the Secretary of State the report. That was confidential. There were also black lines in it. At least I don't know if there were any black lines in the Secretary of State's report and if she couldn't read anything. At that time we had the report, which was not yet public, on our desk too. When I asked for a debate, how long do we wait until we do something? The Secretary of State then, with the entire history, also chose not to do anything. In dealing with the Railway Act and in dealing with the amendment, the Secretary of State also said: we know that there is a report in the drawer on legal infringements of the NS, but I see no reason to do anything extra for the position of the ACM.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u248	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u249	How is it that the Secretary of State, with the sum total of all these things, has not been conscious to say: I must act actively here myself?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u250	I understand that I must recall part of the previous debate, at least with a few key words. The recasting directive puts the ACM in a stronger position. There is also more transparency about the information. That's what we talked about last week. Of course, that fits exactly into what happened here. It is about clarity, transparency and the question of where to find information. This is without prejudice to the possibility that a party may not operate in accordance with the rules. I just heard Mrs. De Boer say, if you could just bail it out with more rules, you'd know it was fixed. However, that is not the case. That's what the ACM's for. The results are shocking and very far-reaching. Especially when it comes to the organisation of the NS, the Minister of Finance has also argued that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u251	The Secretary of State is also trying to convince the Chamber of Representatives of the way things are going, but I still have a question about the facts. On 12 March, the ACM sent the still confidential decision to the Minister of EZ and the Secretary of State for I and M. On 31 May, the Minister of Finance will receive the decision. However, the decision will not become public until much later. Why wasn't there a call to the ACM on 12 or 13 March, in the vein of: this is a very solid report, at what time can we come out with it? However, I understand now that there has been a proper wait until this was possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u252	Well, "wait and see." It concerns a period of 10 working days for appeals. I told the Chamber in those ten days by letter that I didn't want to interfere with the course of justice and that I couldn't make the report public. I immediately informed the Chamber about that. Finally, ten working days later, on 27 March, the NS appealed against the disclosure of the decision. All this time, it is uncertain whether that is actually right and the NS can take certain steps. Subsequently, the ACM made the decision public on 3 June, after the NS had withdrawn the appeal against disclosure. I have just indicated that we are talking to the ACM about the way in which reports of this kind are handled and with these kinds of phrases in the accompanying letter. I think that is right, but if there is a period during which an appeal can be brought and if that appeal is eventually brought, the case will be brought before the courts. I think it's a bad thing, then. That's how I always stand when you make information public at the time. That's not my role. The ACM and the NS will then be discussing this report through the judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u253	If you follow the strictly formal reasoning, no appeal has yet been filed on 12 March. If I understand correctly, the Secretary of State has not yet made an attempt to find out how quickly she can do anything with the ACM's report. Meanwhile, the tender takes place in Overijssel. I am also thinking of the firm words of the Minister on this matter. It's a very serious matter. If the Secretary of State looks back, wouldn't she have preferred to call the ACM on 13 March to see if there was any way to act with the report? Or would it, on another occasion, just wait three months until the time limit for the appeal is over or perhaps the appeal has been withdrawn, when there is a call for tenders at the time?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u254	I have already indicated that I think it is important to talk to the ACM about how we deal with confidential information that we receive in this way, with such texts, how the roles can be kept clean and how you do not act improperly, in such a way that legal proceedings can be obstructed. The report is dated March 6th. I think I got it a few days later. I then informed the Chamber as soon as possible about the report. I have also outlined the framework for the way in which I have dealt with things. I thought it was important and important for the Chamber to be aware of how I deal with such reports. In this sense, Mrs Van Tongeren has a point, because the question of how we deal with it is very important. If something is written in the vein of "This is purely for you," you may wonder if you should call about it. We will discuss this in consultation with the ACM, because regardless of the care you need to see what can be done. I'm gonna get back to the ACM. I know the ACM as a careful organisation when it comes to hearing and hearing again and making decisions public, because that is what processes and procedures are for. In the end, the supervisor found in the report that the Railway Act has been broken in a number of respects. The ACM checks whether there has been an infringement of the Railway Act by the railway undertaking NS and not whether there has been an infringement by specific persons. In the description of the events there were e-mails of persons. De Brauw's investigation has looked into what officials they were, which has just been discussed with the Chamber. A number of parties, including the Party for Freedom and D66, have asked about the different hats of the NS. Is the NS aware of these different hats? The Labour Party has asked the Minister of Finance for information on this. From my role, I think it is important that the Long Term Track Agenda states that "the NS is the social service provider on track, with passengers on one, two and three. The NS should also show the behavior appropriate to a high level of social responsibility." I think that is the link to the actions of the Ministry of Finance as shareholder, because that has not been the case here. We have just talked about the remaining regional tender Kampen-Zwolle-Enschede. I hope that will be clear soon. I have some specific questions to answer. Mrs Van Veldhoven asked how I deal with preliminary reports in general. I made it very clear how we do that. It is good that we agree with the ACM on this. Mr Van Helvert asked if the decision of the province would have been different if the ACM decision had been known. I cannot enter into the decision-making power of the province of Limburg. However, as is well known, Arriva has now been awarded the tender. Mrs Dik-Faber asked why no contact has been made with Limburg. This is to the ACM. I've already said that everyone has purely operated in their role. Limburg was the interested party. Indeed, there have been several versions of the ACM report in circulation, with parts that were and were not blacked out. In the end, the final report has become known at the time of the final decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u255	Mr Van Helvert also calls for my flexibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u256	This is my fourth interruption? Oh, my fifth... Thank you for being so flexible so far. On the question of why no contact has been made with the province, the Secretary of State says: she was interested and so on, and so on. So do I understand that the culture is apparently as follows? If we know that something is going wrong, but according to the rules we are not allowed to tell each other as fellow directors, from minister to deputy, is culture that we do not tell each other and just let it go into the soup with open eyes?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u257	There's got to be something wrong with me. I get the impression that Mr Van Helvert has a worrying assessment of the Limburg representative for transport. I don't share that appraisal. Limburg has acted very professionally in this tender, has handled this very well and has taken steps transparently, also with its own Provincial States. That is also the place where that had to be done, and I think that I value that situation differently from Mr Van Helvert.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u258	This is the worst answer I have heard from the Secretary of State today. The answer she is giving now is really bad. I'm very disappointed. The province of Limburg has gone well through the tendering process. We all know that, because that is what we can conclude from the reports. All parties agreed. So that was not my question at all. It is in the Hague that we know that something is going on and that there is fear of an uneven playing field, but that we are not doing anything. We all know. We hear rumors about reports or even have reports in the drawer saying it's not going well. However, the Minister does not report that to the deputy director, which is why we are simply letting it go. Is that the culture?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u259	The debate on the level playing field has been held in the Chamber. I had her with the Chamber when we talked about the recasting directive. At that time, I indicated how I look at the level playing field and what steps had been taken. Mr Van Helvert was present at that debate. It was also asked whether the outcome would have been different if we had known all this beforehand. The answer to that is no. Mr Bashir asked a question about the relationship between the previous reports on collusion between the FMN and the NS. It's up to the ACM to deal with that. The ACM must check whether there is an infringement of the Competition Act. With regard to the NS and the invitation to tender in Limburg, the ACM established this. As regards possible collusion between transport companies, the ACM is or has not yet established the investigation. It is up to the ACM, and as far as I know no complaint has been made. Mr Madlener has asked me several times whether I am prepared to reverse the split between the NS and ProRail. He and I know that we fundamentally disagree on this idea. This has not been chosen. When the Long Term Track Agenda came into being, we discussed the structure long and comprehensively. Mr Madlener knows my position. It was asked whether we believe that the NS should become a state-owned company or continue to privatise it. Mr Bashir and Mr Klein have asked questions about this. These questions were answered by the Minister for Finance. I think I've run out of questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u260	I have one more question about the level playing field. There will be a note at the end of the year showing how the cabinet looks at the playing field and how we arrange it in the Netherlands. Now I believe that this level playing field also applies to those who take part in it. Does the NS have the same chances in France and Germany to win tenders as the French and German state-owned companies in the Netherlands? In that case, you really have a level playing field.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u261	I see someone beside me nodding yes, but I cannot judge whether that is really the case in France. The Minister says that he does not nod yes about equal opportunities in tendering in France. That's what I suspected. I can't judge what's going on in France. I trust that European procurement rules will be followed and that each country will have its own watchdog. That would initially be my answer: yes, because it is regulated in this way in Europe. If a party such as Abellio competes in France or another country and there is no level playing field, I assume that a complaint procedure will be initiated. I assume that in that country there is an ACM-like body to deal with the complaint and assess the grievances.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u262	The Secretary of State says to assume that, but I ask her to take a good look at that, since it is also about having equal opportunities. There is, of course, a huge difference in the home market. Of course, the French and Germans have a huge advantage. It is very easy to push other parties out of the market. If the Netherlands opens up the market to these types of companies, but the French and Germans keep their markets closed, there is no level playing field at all. I ask the Secretary of State to take a closer look at this and to check whether there are equal opportunities for the NS in those countries that are trying to get here on our level playing field...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u263	They're counting on our level playing field.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u264	Exactly!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u265	With the extension of Mr Madlener's explanatory statement, I can answer 'yes'. Abellio has won a tender in England and Scotland and also in a Scandinavian country. The market in Germany is open. There the central lines are tendered in a different way, but regionally there are simply tenders where other parties can compete. These are European procurement rules. In that sense, the answer is 'yes', just when you look at how it is organized and who drives where in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u266	Two of my questions have not been answered. The first question concerns the rumours in the media that if the NS were to win the tender in Limburg, it would pay the staff according to the NS collective agreement. That reward is higher. The reaction of FMN to this would be that this is an undesirable situation, because then there could be cross-subsidisation. I don't know if the messages are true. I read it in the media and it goes around. I think it would be a good idea to clarify this. I also think it is right for the Secretary of State to state that this is an undesirable situation should it arise.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u267	I'm not talking about the salary payments to employees. That's what the organization's about. You also call it a rumor. I don't have a single picture of the context of the rumor. I can't answer that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u268	That disappoints me a little bit. Procurement must have a level playing field. If there are rumors about cross-subsidisation in this kind of way, I find that a difficult point. To be honest, I found the Secretary of State's answer a little too easy. Would she perhaps take a look at this at another time and put it back to the Chamber? This seems to me to be an undesirable situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u269	Research has been conducted into possible cross-subsidisation. The Minister of Finance has reported on the results: there was no question of this. Like I said, I leave paychecks to the organization itself. This is a nv. So I can't answer that. Research has shown that cross-subsidisation was not an issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u270	I've asked the Secretary of State what she's going to do actively to ensure the level playing field. Since Friday we have a new reality. Whatever happened, we certainly don't want to see any of this happen again. How are we looking at the ongoing tender in Overijssel? Did the Secretary of State contact the board there? How better do we ensure that this doesn't happen anymore? How do we check that cases that came to light last week do not occur in the current calls for tenders?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u271	Very serious incidents have one automatism: everyone is very alert at least in the first period after that. In this sense, what has happened not only has the attention of the cabinet, but also of all parties. Further investigations will be carried out by the Supervisory Board, which will also be shared with the Chamber. A number of facts or observations will be added. I think it is important that the province of Overijssel should be placed in the position where it can assess whether the tender actually went well. It has been promised that the ongoing research will be given priority and that Overijssel will be informed as soon as possible, so that it can make a good weight of this with its own Provincial States.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u272	Are we in the position where we are going to look at how we are going to secure the level playing field in the area of rail? Does the Minister have any other measures in her mind to change that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u273	We have had debates on this recently. In order to put the ACM better in that position, I think it is important that we first anchor and monitor the rules on information about stations and so on. However, it is important, pending the information that may be forthcoming, that we do not end the discussion here at all. Each time it will be necessary to review whether there is a level playing field. This must be a tough condition for the rail market, which in itself is a fairly typical market.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u274	This has put an end to the government's first term. I suggest that we proceed straight to the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u275	Do you think I could have a 15-minute suspension?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u276	This is unusual. I see people shaking no. Shall we do five minutes?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u277	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u278	I'm suspending the meeting for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u279	I would ask the members of the Chamber and the members of the Cabinet to take their seats so that we can begin with the second term on the side of the Chamber. I give the first floor to Mr Van Helvert of the CDA. Speaking time is two minutes, including reading motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u280	Madam President. Suppose you're a traveler or staff member of the Dutch Railways, you're on that trail tomorrow and you've seen this debate. Of course, all Dutch people have been watching; you can imagine that. Then you might think as a staff member: the NS is doing its best; I like to work for the NS; we have a government that is next to us and behind us; we have seen that the government has fired the director. And then what? Then we see that the Minister, and certainly the Secretary of State, is hiding behind systems and procedures in order not to have to do anything on his own initiative. They're just reacting. There is no proper answer to the questions as to why nothing happened and what exactly was known. This is not the last debate on this. Today, the people, the staff and the travelers got zero on the record. In order to continue our search for what really happened and then to be able to make a flight forward, I submit the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it has been found that the NS has committed abuse of power and has injured Veolia in the run-up to the tender of public transport in Limburg;]] [[Whereas an overview of all information shared between the ministries, the NS, the ACM and the province of Limburg is needed;]] [[calls on the Government, the Chamber, to send a summary of all information shared between the ministries, the NS, the ACM, the Province of Limburg and other interested parties and of what has been done with that information in the ministries as soon as possible but not later than 1 July of this year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Helvert and Van Veldhoven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28165-200]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u281	For the last five seconds, I would like to say that I am very sorry that I am missing a little involvement in the cabinet to resolve this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u282	Mr. Chairman. The NS has played a whole series of incidents and it has also come up. If your ambition is to be an active shareholder, you have to act on it. The Minister shifts part of the responsibility to the Supervisory Board. Part of it is justified. But then you have to make sure that the supervisory board is really sharp. However, this supervisory board was unable to prevent the series of incidents. The Minister still expresses his confidence in this Supervisory Board, but in fact he says that he is going to use an outboard engine in the investigations in order to be safe. I welcome that, but I think that a structural outboard engine would be needed for this board of Commissioners, which has been here for so long and is therefore part of the culture. That is what my group is concerned about. In any case, we want the House of Representatives to be well informed about the progress of cultural change in the NS. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that a number of measures have been announced to put internal business culture in order, such as increasing Chinese walls and an intensive cultural programme to improve compliance with internal rules in procurement;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Chamber of the progress of these improvement measures by means of a half-yearly progress report until internal procedures are in order,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Veldhoven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28165-201]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u283	Now I'm going into the follow-up. The Minister shares the importance of the independence of the investigation. Then I wonder why we have De Brauw do this, who also represented the NS in the ACM procedure. I believe that the Minister and I are very much in line, but I am still tabling the next motion for a resolution on that investigation. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that further research is being carried out into internal business culture and procedures within NS;]] [[Whereas it is important to ensure that researchers are fully independent and therefore the NS cannot act on its own as the sponsor of this research;]] [[invites the Government, as the sponsor for this investigation, to have it carried out by informing an independent agency and the Chamber about research assignment and execution,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Van Veldhoven and De Boer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28165-202]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u284	I still have a few closing sentences. I am pleased that the Minister has made a commitment to find a structural solution to this structural problem for the future. I say to the Secretary of State: let this also be a learning moment about how to handle reports that the ACM says are sent confidentially. They can go to the shareholder.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u285	Mr. Chairman. The NS needs to get to work, and we need a new board soon. We are pleased that the Minister will come up with an opinion on the looming errors in the rail sector. Specifically in relation to the structure of the NS, what is best for travellers in the medium term will be reported. The results of the parliamentary survey should also be taken into account. It may sound crazy, given the heat of this debate, but there is a need for peace and regularity on the track.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u286	Mr. Chairman. Following these words, for the sake of clarity, I would like to echo Mrs van Veldhoven's words on independence. I'll file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the recent irregularities in the procurement of public transport services in Limburg had a crucial role to play in sharing information on the stations/services under the management of NS;]] [[considers that to solve this cultural change alone is not enough, but that the perverse incentives should be removed from the existing system;]] [[Considering the need for clarity and transparency of the different activities of and within the NS, how these activities relate to each other, the legal context and the financial flows between these activities;]] [[whereas it should be clear what the net financial effects are for the Dutch State;]] [[calls on the Government to carry out, as soon as possible, an independent external investigation involving various options, including the separation of the stations/activities of the NS and the contracting of stations and routes together, and to involve the House of Representatives in the task to be formulated,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members De Boer and Van Veldhoven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28165-203]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u287	This motion surprises me somewhat. Last year an investigation was carried out into the separation of stations. In addition, six variants were examined. I know the VVD Group as a group that is very committed to lean and mean things. Why do we have to investigate what was already investigated last year? We know that we disagree on this point and that we will not agree on it either. The VVD Group will continue to say that the investigation is not good enough if it does not find out what it wants, namely the separation of stations. Where does Mrs. De Boer want to go? We already know the opinion of the VVD Group: it wants to get rid of NS's station activities; these activities must be privatised.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u288	Mr Hoogland is asking a very fair question, because there is already an investigation. Only now we are dealing with a whole new context. What happened last week is not nothing; we will all agree on that. We must therefore look more broadly, also given the new reality, what we are going to do with the station activities. Moreover, there is cross-pollination, cross-subsidisation, within the activities of NS. In other words, this is concluded in the ACM report on the basis of the wording of NS employees. The report referred to by Mr Hoogland states that this is not the case. In view of the new reality, we therefore call for a new investigation. We really want to take action to move towards a situation where there is full and equal opportunities in the market.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u289	I have a similar question. How does this help to improve the transport of passengers or citizens? As my colleague has already said, this has already been investigated. I assume that the VVD Group also agrees that the culture of the NS needs to be restored at the moment and that clarity needs to be established. What does it help to do over and over again that we have been pulling parts of the rail for 20 years? This way the NS can never really get on steam. Does the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats not agree with the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u290	No. Mrs Van Tongeren rightly points out that this is about the traveller. We see that public transport has progressed with leaps and bounds in the regions where calls for tender take place. Quality has improved considerably and the number of passengers has increased, while transport has become cheaper. Now it appears that the situation of market forces is not working properly. This is due to the looming error in the system, because the NS, as the provider of all those station activities, is also a competitor in the acquisition of contracts under those rail concessions. There's a loom error in the system. It was found that it provided too late and incomplete information. Since there is no proper market operation, we think it is very good to investigate how to deal with these station activities in the future, so that you can get that perverse incentive out of it. That's good for the traveler.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u291	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u292	That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u293	Mr. Chairman. Mr Huges, the CEO, was sent away by the Supervisory Board and the Minister for Finance. That has proved to be right. Everyone supports him in that. Fortunately, there are not several board members who were aware of this incorruptible matter. The Ministry did not appear to have any role in this either. I'm glad of that, and I'm glad of that. There will be a further investigation, even with hearing again. I'm curious to see what's coming out of that, but for the time being, there are no other serious abuses at the Ministry or at the NS summit. That reassures me for the time being. In that sense, this debate has not become very exciting. I am also very pleased that the Minister of Finance has promised that there will be no penny of schemes, no pension payments, no payments and no handshakes. Let me just mention the list, that there are no advantages going back to the left or to the right. It's just a pay cut, that's all. It's your own fault, big bump. I am pleased that the Finance Minister has made a clear commitment to this. There will also be research or a vision of the future about how the railways continue in the Netherlands. As far as we are concerned, market forces are not the way to look at the railways. We don't think there's a real market. I shall table the next motion for a resolution on this matter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the rail market consists mainly of competing state-owned companies and cannot therefore be called a genuine market;]] [[noting that the market forces pursued by the EU on the railways have failed;]] [[calls on the Government, the path of market operation and procurement on the track, to regroup the NS and ProRail and to place them under the direct responsibility of the Ministry,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Madlener. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28165-204]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u294	Mr. Chairman. Law violations, fraud, bribes, those are tough conclusions, with big consequences. There are consequences for the traveller, because he gets a worse offer. There are consequences for the workers, because they have worked hard and won the concession and ultimately they do not get what they deserve. There are consequences for the taxpayer, which would receive an additional EUR 150 million, because of the EUR 2 billion involved in the concession and the return on the concession. This also means less dividend for the State. This is all due to how we organized the system; with market forces between state-owned companies, that doesn't work. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is no normal rail market, but that there are several state-owned companies trying to get each other to win a concession;]] [[Whereas rail procurement is more in the interest of lawyers than of travellers;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up a plan to phase-in the regional rail concessions back to the main rail network, taking into account the wishes of provinces,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bashir. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28165-205]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u295	And then I have another motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that NS is 100% owned by the Dutch State;]] [[having noted that the retired president-director of the NS earned more than half a million euros a year;]] [[whereas such income is not socially justified by NS because NS's turnover and income are generated by travellers' money and because NS is 100% owned by the State;]] [[calls on the Government to adapt NS' remuneration policy in such a way as to ensure that the new President of NS earns a maximum of the ministerial salary,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bashir. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28165-206]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u296	Mr. Chairman. I'll file the following motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the government as the sole shareholder in the NS should be more aware of its role as a supervisor;]] [[Whereas the General Court of Auditors has made recommendations on monitoring State participations;]] [[calls on the Government to implement the measures proposed by the General Court on ProRail and the NS as soon as possible and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is not sufficiently clear which services NS should provide to competing rail transport operators in the context of procurement;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the extent to which the laws and regulations in force should be clarified in order to clarify for all carriers which goods, services and information NS or NS subsidiaries are required to supply in the event of calls for tenders and concessions on regional lines,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28165-207]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28165-208]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u297	I agree with rest and regularity, but I cannot help mentioning purity. Toilets in the trains would also be very nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u298	That sounds almost like the bioindustrial comment, the cleanliness of the toilets! I have another question for Mrs Van Tongeren. She finds it unclear which services all need to be provided. What does she base this on?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u299	On the first 25 pages of the ACM's piece, where the ACM gives a further interpretation of the law. That interpretation has never been reviewed by a judge. However, it is the ACM and the appeal to it has been withdrawn. However, further clarification is provided. If that is necessary now, it is clear from that alone that those articles in the law of which I am not aware are not sufficiently clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u300	In my view, it is very clear that the NS must provide all the information it has at its disposal and necessary to make a good offer independently, impartially and simultaneously to all parties. What's unclear about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u301	Should you or should you not make a bid if, for example, you need a waiting area for drivers and there is also a room for commercial hire within 150 meters of the station? According to the ACM, that is not the case. Should you or should you not offer access for disabled people at a competitive price on the platform? According to the ACM in this case, no. You're not gonna get that out of the law. That is a further interpretation of that. There is a degree of case law. I would like to make that clear. Perhaps there are more articles that could be clarified further.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u302	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister and the Secretary of State for all the answers to the questions of the Chamber. One important question that I have asked is that of the Secretary of State. How will the confidence of the carriers be restored? We have debated this evening the importance of the traveller clearly on the retina, but something has really gone wrong in the tendering process in Limburg and, in my opinion, the confidence between carriers must be restored. What can the Secretary of State contribute to this? I have a motion and I'll read it to you now. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the situation in Limburg gives cause for rethinking the position of the NS in areas where it has to cooperate with competitors or where competitors depend on NS, such as stations, co-operation and timetables, payment systems and travel information;]] [[Whereas the Fyra Committee of Inquiry will produce its final report in the autumn, which will undoubtedly address the position of the NS;]] [[calls on the government, in the public interest in autumn, to submit a note to the House of Representatives with advantages and disadvantages of the current positioning of the NS and possible optimisations and alternatives, so that a fundamental debate can be held on this issue;]] [[calls on the Government to involve the positioning of railway companies in other EU Member States,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28165-209]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u303	Mr. Chairman. As far as I am concerned, the position of the NS in relation to procurement was central to the discussion. It was also about an equal position on the whole playing field, as has been mentioned several times. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the NS currently has many different roles, which means that NS' competitors are not only competitors but also dependent on the NS in terms of the performance of the concession;]] [[calls on the government to achieve a level playing field;]] [[invites the Government also to inform the House of Representatives about the consideration of different directions of solution,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Klein. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28165-210]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u304	I don't need to play detective and investigate what happened, but it was very interesting to attend this evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u305	Thank you. This brings to an end the second term of office. The directors have indicated that they can respond directly to the motions submitted. I give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u306	Mr. Chairman. I don't have the motions yet, but that's what's gonna happen now. I'm concentrating on the motions, because that's where the whole discussion is going. The first motion, in part No. 200 is disappointing for us, but you don't have to care. I believe that we have sent four letters to the Chamber and we have answered more than 180 questions. In this debate we have also answered questions such as 'who knew when and why', 'who informed you and who did not', etc. At the end of the debate you will then have to come to political conclusions, at least that is obvious. This motion is actually going back to the beginning of the debate, because the authors want to get the information again. We have answered all questions about all the times, reports and information. I do not think this motion gives any added value. That's why I don't recommend the motion. If, in the opinion of the proposers, questions have not been answered, we are happy to answer them. But to ask for all the information we have already provided, in a general sense, once again, goes too far. That has no added value. I'm dissuading the motion. In the second motion, in part No. 201, the government is invited to inform the Chamber of the progress of improvement measures on a six-monthly basis until internal procedures are in order. I'll leave the judgment to the Chamber. I don't mind. This may suggest that we will not be coming back to the Chamber for six months, but we will gradually inform the Chamber about investigations that are still ongoing and are being completed. We'll inform the Chamber about that. We will also inform the Chamber about the conclusions we draw, for example about the organisation's organisation's compliance and integrity. We will come back to the Chamber on all this at regular intervals, until the Chamber finds that it has finished the progress reports. I'd be fine with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u307	That half-yearly was indicative. The point is that we are kept regularly and well informed about the steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u308	We would be happy to do so. So I'll leave the verdict to the Chamber. Then I come to the motion on part No. 202 by Mrs Van Veldhoven and Mrs De Boer. This motion concerns the investigation of internal business culture, procedures and compliance. This has already been awarded to Alvarez & Marsal, an independent research firm. Alvarez & Marsal conducts this investigation on behalf of the Supervisory Board. It reports directly to the Supervisory Board and can do so independently. We've been watching the assignment. If it gives the authors of the motion additional guarantees for the quality of the investigation, I am prepared to act as co-customer. I'll say "counselor." I do not think that we should push the Supervisory Board out of its responsibilities and assume that responsibility. I am prepared to bear the responsibility for this investigation as well. I understand if the proposers want to appeal to me about the quality and results of the research. So I'm willing to be a co-contractor. If we can add the word "indeed," I'll leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u309	I am looking at Mrs De Boer, but I am very pleased with the Minister's commitment. Let's add that and continue the case in that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u310	And then we will also inform you about the research assignment and the execution, because that is what the motion also requires. Of course, I have no objection to that. I shall now come to the motion by Mrs De Boer and Mrs Van Veldhoven on item No. 203. Mrs Dik-Faber's motion on item No. 209 I would also like to deal with this because I believe that both motions deal with the same part of the debate. The Chamber simply wants an opinion from the Cabinet on what is going to happen to the NS, the structure and layout of the NS, the ambitions of the NS and what the NS is going to be and will not be active in, and all to address the major risks that are now demonstrably exposed. The cabinet comes up with that view. That will of course be after the summer. I think that's what both motions are about. In my view, this does not require new, independent, external research. I simply think that, after discussing it with parties that have a view on it, including the NS and other carriers, but also the provinces that also have a responsibility and commitment to it, the cabinet should come up with a view. We are not going to do this narrowly, we are going to do it widely. We will show where the vulnerabilities are, as I understand Mrs De Boer and Mrs Van Veldhoven's motion. We really need to look at how the different activities are structured and how they relate to each other, to the legal context and to the money flows. That's how you expose the risks. So we'll show you all that and describe it. Then we'll walk through various options and pros and cons to see how you could address them. I can also promise that the position of NS Stations and the idea put forward by Mrs Dik-Faber with regard to the procurement of stations and routes will be taken into account together and described with the advantages and disadvantages, without any reference to this outcome. So we're really going to look at the different options to address those risks and make sure that there really is a level playing field, including from the design and role and task concept of the NS. Then we come up with a cabinet position. So we will have a broad approach, but we will have a cabinet view. In the end, we will draw a conclusion and the Chamber will then be able to hold the debate on the basis of the broad letter we send to it in order to determine whether it shares our conclusion. That's how I'd like to do it. The only aspect of Mrs De Boer's and Mrs Van Veldhoven's motion that I would not like to accept concerns independent external research. There's a lot of research going on. If it is necessary to deepen certain aspects, we can have further research on this, but I am not going to outsource this task entirely. I don't think that's right either. The cabinet must identify where the vulnerabilities are. Are they in the structure, in the establishment or in the task concept of the NS and how are we going to address them? So I think it's an assignment to the Cabinet and not to an independent external investigation agency, although I don't rule out the fact that we still have parts to investigate. I am also prepared to discuss this with the Chamber. If she says she wants certain aspects to be deepened, in addition to the reports that are already there, I am prepared to do so, but I am not going to outsource this broad task, vision development, if one wishes. That is my only comment. If the proposers agree, I can make the motion in part No. 203 judgment room. For Mrs Dik-Faber's motion on item No. 209 is the same, because it is also about the broad assignment to the cabinet, the advantages and disadvantages, positioning, alternatives and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u311	Both motions are of the opinion of the Chamber with the comments made by the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u312	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u313	I had a quick consultation with the co-subscriber. We are considering the deletion of the motion for a resolution on external investigations, but we do attach great importance to the rejection of the previous investigation. Given the new facts that came up last Friday and the conclusions that the ACM draws, we also want to understand the money flows. So we really need to get a lot of facts on the table. If the Minister is prepared to carry out that investigation himself, I warmly welcome it and if more research is needed on parts, it must be done. Let us not get out of the way of all this, but look at how we can manage things properly for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u314	Agreed. I am now dealing only with the motions in part Nos. 206 and 207 The other motions are more about the organization of the market and the like, which is discussed by the Secretary of State. The motion in part No. 206 is about remuneration policy. That motion actually states that the NS should be subject to the Standards Act. The government's view is that this applies both to the government and to semi-public organisations, as laid down in that law. State participations are companies. We really chose the form of enterprise. We are, for certain reasons, the sole shareholder, but it is a company and must therefore also be run as a company. There is therefore a separate remuneration policy. This policy is already very moderate in relation to the past. We'll use that remuneration policy. So I'm deceiving the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u315	I want to ask you about ProRail. Today there was news that an external has been hired for an amount that is many times higher than stated in the law on the standards of top incomes. Should ProRail comply with that law, according to the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u316	I'd like to leave that question to the Secretary of State. This is a policy area and it is covered by the Secretary of State. I think it is right that she should take that up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u317	The question is therefore for the Secretary of State to come back to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u318	I don't have any information about it either, so I can't answer the question either. The motion in part No. 207 belonged to Mrs Van Tongeren. Mrs Van Tongeren had the report of the Court of Auditors in hand and now wants to introduce unverfroren. My request to her is to hold that motion and to hold the debate first on the report and the state participations. If she does put the motion to the vote, I'll advise against her. Then it is a quickie, which I do not mean disrespect.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u319	I was told by the Minister that he himself already has some of the recommendations in the note. Anyway, I'll hold the motion and then we'll deal with her after the debate. I thought the need was for the man and that we should settle this quickly with regard to ProRail and NS, but apparently the Minister thinks that these two weeks are still possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u320	At the request of Mrs Van Tongeren, I propose her motion (28165, No. 207). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u321	Mr. Chairman. I'll deal with a few motions first. I have two further questions to answer and I would like to make a final comment. First of all, I should like to comment on the motion on part No. 204 by Mr Madlener. I have just said it to him and we have talked about this several times. To be honest, I also expect, knowing Mr Madlener, that we will discuss this a number of times. However, we have taken a number of decisions in the Long Term Track Agenda. I therefore advise against the motion. In the motion in part No. 205 is requested to draw up a plan to phase-in the regional rail concessions back to the main rail network. There is a similar answer to that. We discussed at the Long Term Track Agenda how we set it up, what agreements we make and what we give to the NS in private for what period. It would be a very big step to undo the decentralisations. We have confirmed our policy in the Long Term Track Agenda and I see no reason to revise that line. I therefore advise against this motion. The Van Tongeren motion in part No. 208 deals with investigations into the laws and regulations in force. I think it's important that you investigate the possibility of clarification. That can also help to give rest and regularity. I would have expected Mrs Van Tongeren to combine cleanliness and toilets. I've got that in my head right now. I don't think there's a problem with an investigation. I shall therefore leave this to the judgement of the Chamber. The motion in part No. 210 by Mr Klein I must advise against. Last week, in a debate and also in a VAO, we looked at how to deal with a number of issues. We have made a number of choices in that and we have put a number of things differently before the law. So we have actually just had this debate. That's why I don't recommend the motion. Two further questions were then asked. How can confidence be restored to carriers? The other day, on television, I heard someone from the union say that the world of procurement is a rock-hard world. In fact, that means great tensions between a small number of parties and tension whether you win the tender or not. I think it is important, and I have to quote Mr Van Helvert, who said here first in the second term that the traveller is at the forefront. Eventually, we'll do it for the traveler. At the moment, I do not have an opinion on the way in which everyone fills it in, but all parties must stand together for door-to-door mobility. This means that the NS must take that role seriously, but also the other carriers and all other parties involved, including ProRail, for example. For this we work together in the NOVB and the National OV and Railway Table. I see a lot of results on the latter. I think the NOVB should do a better job. I hear the cri de coeur of the Christian Union. It is important that we show each time that we have a common interest and that there is no party with an individual interest within this playing field. In that sense, I will continue to send it. I have included this in the concession for the railways that I myself am dealing with and what I have agreed on. I have heard the Christian Union well and I will work for it. I do not think that any party should escape that goal. Then the interim at ProRail, about who was news today. The remuneration of the interim management is not covered by the remuneration policy. Furthermore, ProRail's remuneration policy is covered by the WNT. I have also reported this in connection with the remuneration of the CEO, who has been at issue here. The agreement is entered into by ProRail himself for the interimmer. In this context, an interim financial director has been used in connection with a staff change and reception for a limited period of time. As a shareholder, I do not have to grant permission for this, but as I have already said: ProRail within the WNT. As shareholder of ProRail, I will also draw attention to this in the management of ProRail.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u322	I also understand that this is a report from PwC, at ProRail. Does the Secretary of State have anything else to tell us about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u323	If I knew what report it was about, I could make that assessment. So I'm gonna start by looking for a report from PwC. I'll check what that report is about, whether it's internal to ProRail and whether I should share it with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-26.u324	The votes on the motions tabled will take place next Tuesday. I would like to thank everyone for their interest and the directors for coming to the Chamber.
