ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-6.u1	I would like to welcome all those present in the Chamber, and in particular the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and the Environment. Seven speakers have spoken for the treatment of this law. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Smaling of the SP. As he walks in this direction, I would ask Members to take into account in their interruptions that there is a great deal of pressure on the plenary agenda. I would therefore like to limit the scope for interruptions and ask Members to put their questions very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. This bill has been long, but very short compared to the period when the KNMI already exists. It was founded in 1854 by Buys Ballot. That is not the first one, because in Amsterdam the Buys Ballotstraat ends on the Galilei plant Sun. Then you're in good physical company. In that sense, the KNMI is therefore a patient institution. However, the patience of the KNMI is under pressure. This bill is an expression of that. At the KNMI, I think 99% of people think it's just about the weather. However, if you treat the gas extraction in Groningen, you will find that the KNMI also has a task in the field of seismology. So it's much wider than many people think. The KNMI has several tasks, which are of course specified. But what is important to my group in the light of the legislative proposal is that the institute is part of a disaster infrastructure, as is the RIKILT Institute, which is the State Food Quality Institute in Wageningen, the Netherlands Forensic Institute and the Netherlands Vaccine Institute. This is also reflected in the report Verstand op safe van het Rathenau Instituut. That's what I want to focus my contribution on. This disaster infrastructure is a chain of governments, inspection services and public knowledge institutions that can act directly at a critical time. This is what the SP considers to be a crucial role of the KNMI, and in our view this relates poorly to a role as a market player, in which words such as "output control" and "contract financing" are dominant. There has been a discussion around the KNMI about improper competition, but this does not sufficiently address the question of whether market forces are desirable in the first place. The cabinet has no intention of rejecting KNMI tasks to the market, as stated in the explanatory memorandum. That is true now, but if the bill is adopted, it is of course the question that remains in place in a subsequent cabinet period. So I ask the Secretary of State what is worth saying that the government does not want to reject tasks. What is the critical mass of the KNMI if other tasks are placed elsewhere? The explanatory memorandum states: "The activity portfolio will be maintained, but its financing will change." Well, we've seen that. If you look at the past few years and what's left in the barrel, you can see that the funding of this institution is getting quite a bit cut off, not to mention that the institute seems to be getting more or less turned around. I asked written questions about the Rathenau Institute report about a year ago. I asked the Secretary of State: do you share the Rathenau Institute's concern that the core tasks will be compromised? Those questions were answered by the Minister of Security and Justice. He replied: "No, on the contrary. Private funding is important for maintaining sufficient expertise and capacity to carry out the (legal) research tasks." Why is private funding essential to maintain expertise and capacity? That's not linked to the fact that funding is private, is it? It is particularly important in this case to maintain public funding. Since 2013, the KNMI has also no longer had a programme board, because demand-driven work has started. How's that working out for you? Is that desirable in the light of what I have just said? I have noticed a comment from the Council of State: there is no clear justification for what problem the legislative proposal provides for a solution to. You can't get it much stricter from the Council of State. Wasn't this an immediate reason for the Secretary of State to withdraw the bill? If not, will it consider doing so today at the end of the discussions? In response to this comment by the Council of State, something is said about the necessary flexibility, but yes, what is flexibility worth when dealing with an institute that is essential for some of the security in this country? Finally, the question of whether this bill complies with the state's duty of care in accordance with Article 44 of the Constitution. The Union of Water Councils points to the important risk that in the event of a disaster or the need to act quickly, waterboards and safety regions will be in a different position compared to Rijkswaterstaat. Is that desirable? You run the risk of losing time, because all parties who have to act in case of a calamity first have to give their explanation of the type of information they receive, while only one thing counts and that is performance. The Rathenau Institute's report contains a number of conclusions and recommendations on the KNMI and similar institutes. So they go a little further than just the KNMI. They are very important conclusions and recommendations about the importance of these institutions, what they are supposed to do and what the Empire has to do to ensure that these institutions do their job properly. I'm asking the Secretary of State to respond to that. I shall come back to this in a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-6.u3	Mr. Chairman. Some time ago, we were shocked by a report in the media about a proposal from the VVD to restrict or send KNMI to the market because it would give too much information on climate change. This message has shocked GroenLinks to such an extent that from that moment on we have begun to explore the tasks of the KNMI. As Mr Smaling said, for example, the KNMI also has an important role to play in aviation safety, in events, in predicting wind power and advice on what people should do with their roofs. The latter applies mainly to entrepreneurs with business premises. I was very surprised about that. However, Mr Smaling also said that we see this possibility again in the legislative proposal. Either you say it's an important government task that needs to be well secured and funded, or you say it doesn't matter that much, because someone else can predict the weather and this can also be bought into the market. On a TU Delft website, for example, it is proud to announce that he is a preferred research partner of Shell. The same applies to TNO's website where it has been on the front page for a long time, although it is now hidden in a footnote. Those facts and the fact that in the report of the Research Council for Security on the gas issue in Groningen, where the KNMI is also an important research partner, it is stated that all these organisations are in a kind of group think, should also make the VVD realize that these are tasks that you cannot give to the market and that you absolutely must guarantee good and public. Whose KNMI is it, anyway? Citizens, businesses and governments need that information. It is still largely funded by the public. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, it should be financed publicly. This knowledge is essential for the safety of citizens, but also of businesses. The scientific independence of what the KNMI delivers must be secured. This independence must also be felt by the KNMI so that, for example, it dares to act in the event of such an earthquake and dares to ring the bell in time. That's one of the things KNMI hasn't done. It saw trends and it knew there were opportunities for heavier earthquakes, but also the KNMI did not feel enough self-confidence to do so. According to GroenLinks, a public and independent guarantee is therefore essential. Why then, in this law, is the freedom to lay down tasks with the most appropriate organisation? Can the Secretary of State explain what the "most appropriate organization" is? Has she considered the impact of this on the functioning of the KNMI? Why do we even want this? Today we see more and more that the real execution goes by AMvB. Then there's no involvement of the Second and First Chambers? How free does the Secretary of State want the hands? If you wanted to do this for once, why didn't you just choose a legal treatment? I was just talking about the report from the Security Research Council. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, the KNMI should have taken the initiative of an integral and independent scientific research project at the first moment from my head in 1995............................................................................................................................................................................... So the KNMI didn't ring the bell at the time. This could happen again in one of the areas in which it has an important role for safety. How does the Secretary of State know that KNMI, if it rings the bell, is now confident, as is the feeling of independence and the idea that its funding will not be compromised? Then use the best technology. In Groningen, the NAM, that is Shell and Exxon, pays for the extension of the measurement network. I think it's okay to leave the account with the NAM, but she also decides what's going to be. The best technology to measure is not used. There'll be better terms for it, so I'll explain it amateurically, but I've been told these are tilt meters. A new measuring network is now being laid down, but that best available technology is not being used. Would the KNMI have chosen to do so if it was completely independent? Or does the NAM say in a financial negotiation: it shouldn't get much crazier; after so many years of natural gas extraction, this is pushed down our throats, so we have to build something like this but the best technology is too expensive for us? And why isn't such a measuring network in Overijssel, Woerden or the Gas Storage Bergermeer? Are these choices made by the KNMI itself or are they prescribed by the market? Then the disclosure of information. As stated in the report of the Research Council for Security, there is a great deal of distrust in Groningen about everything that comes from the government, including the measurement data. With great regularity, an earthquake intensity reported at German measuring stations and initially at the KNMI is adjusted downwards by the KNMI. I've asked questions about that. How is it that the Germans measure something that is always a few points lower in our case? At that time I was told that the standard is lower because it used to be so calibrated, and this remains so because then data will remain comparable. But with the Groningen people, that's a great distrust. People have also drawn my attention to the fact that sometimes after a long period of time, with retroactive effect, the KNMI changes an earthquake, both its location and its strength. There may be a very good reason for this, but there is great distrust in Groningen. Also, there is no possibility for others to adjust the measurements and the research setup. How are those data compiled and how does it work down? Checking the contents of the test report. None of that is public. Hence also the amendment by GroenLinks to make the information and the research set-up step by step, I understand that it cannot be made publicly accessible at once. The Gasquakes Portal of the Groninger Soil Movement is one of the few places where you can follow this well in real time. This is important for the citizens and for everyone who studies earthquakes, not only in the Netherlands but also abroad. This portal was mentioned by Saskia Stuiveling of the General Court as the best example of an application of open data in the Netherlands. It was simply shut down because the KNMI had to tinker with the systems for some financial-technical reason. If you don't keep track of a system like this every day, those readings are suddenly worthless. If suddenly there's a hole of a few months in there, the data is no longer usable. So as far as GroenLinks is concerned, more priority should be given to keeping track, including for the people who use it, and better communication about it. On this point, we have tabled an amendment to ensure that it becomes a basic task of the Minister to ensure that the data collected and measured are accessible on a public platform in good time and free of charge and that priority is given to it. Not only should they be accessible, but also the research set-up should be made public, so that others, if they wanted to, can reproduce research and recalculate it. For climate research, this Secretary of State has done its best, but the plan was to stop the CO measurement at the KNMI mast in Cabauw, while countries around us say that climate change is becoming more important every day and that those who do not only want to calculate but also want to be able to control and measure. It is not just about CO but also about methane emissions that you get from dredging, from peatlands or from larger droughts. Not all of that can be calculated, you should measure your calculations with a number of measurements. So can the Secretary of State ensure that these measurements are permanently funded by the government? Then geothermal, a clean source of energy. The KNMI has geophysical information as well as the ability to collect geophysical information, bringing the ambitions with geothermal energy closer. The production of geothermal energy between 2008 and 2013 is 42% below the expectations of the government. I have spoken to a number of entrepreneurs who say that this is often because they do not get all the information available. Now I understand that part of it can be competitive if you're an oilman or a gasman. Then you're gonna compete directly with Shell and Exxon, which is why they don't want to share that data. But a geothermal farmer is not in direct competition, so can it not be considered whether the information that can greatly help their operations can be made available? A miscarriage of geothermal energy is really very pricey, the more you know about the subsurface and share it, the better it is. So we also have an amendment on that. GroenLinks wants a strong and truly independent KNMI. As Mr Smaling said, it may be an option to consider that the Secretary of State is withdrawing this law. If not, he said very much that he hoped that the amendments tabled by GroenLinks would be accepted.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-6.u4	Mr. Chairman. Time for a completely different sound, namely that the whole KNMI can just go to the market as far as we are concerned. We do not want to privatise the NS, because there is no real market there, but there is a real market in weather forecasts, especially when it comes to aviation, for example. In this respect, although this law is an improvement, it does not go far enough. With GroenLinks' objection that we just heard of independence, I think: yes, how independent is GroenLinks itself? Because, of course, politics also controls with subsidies. GroenLinks simply believes in human climate, and that needs to be established. Of course, that is not independent at all. I think that a lot of people have no confidence in GroenLinks as a grantor who says: go and show us our ideas. As far as we are concerned, therefore, the KNMI can be privatised. This law does that a little bit, that's good, but that doesn't go far enough for us. I will also table a motion on this subject in the second term. We received a beautiful letter from another company, MeteoConsult, founded by Harry Otten, who know old people like me as weathermen. That company is very successful in Europe with weather forecasts, also for the air. Now this law gives the KNMI a monopoly on this, so that Harry Otten is not allowed to do so. I think that's weird. There's just a market here. There are Dutch companies that can and do this and that do not get a chance here. I don't think so anymore, because here's just a market. We support the commitment in this bill, but it does not go far enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-6.u5	Other parties may be able to offer weather reports. How important is it for the PVV that information about earthquakes, for example, is completely independent of any commercial activity?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-6.u6	I am concerned about the quality of the information. Independence through funding has not always been demonstrated. If GroenLinks grants, what about independence? GroenLinks exerts enormous pressure to allow the results to be the way the party wants them to be. So I have as much distrust of the government as I do of market players. Of course, we have to look critically at the information that is provided to us, but I think a company like TNO in Delft seems quite independent. I'm not putting that in the dock like GroenLinks just did.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-6.u7	That is an interesting comparison, because TNO will of course receive a basic funding from the Empire. Will Mr Madlener now privatise the entire KNMI? Does he think that certain tasks, such as providing information on earthquakes, should be properly guaranteed? Does he think it is logical that the Empire should continue to provide some sort of basic funding for this, so that there can never be any doubt about independence?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-6.u8	Basic information may also provide parties other than the government. The government may find it necessary to finance this research, but the question is who's going to do that research. This bill states that the KNMI will do so, but the PVV suggests that other parties such as TNO or Meteoconsult should also be looked at. That last batch does, so why don't you watch that? Why does the KNMI still have a monopoly in a number of areas thanks to this law? The PVV doesn't need that. In the statement that independence is guaranteed if the government does anything, I have my doubts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-6.u9	Suppose Mr Madlener is about to get on a plane. It's incredibly bad weather. A lot of flights have already fallen out because of too much storm. They can't take off. Mr Madlener has De Telegraaf lying on his lap and reads that Schiphol has just purchased his weather reports from a certain Spanish weather company that offers the cheapest weather reports. Is Mr Madlener going on that plane with cheerful spirits?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-6.u10	When the KNMI issues a code orange and nothing comes, while I sit in my garden waiting for something to happen, I think: well. I trust that an airline will look critically at the safety of the pilot and the passengers. An airline needs such information. It's gotta be perfect, too. Those parties other than the KNMI alone can provide them. That is why I would welcome the possibility for airlines to opt for those who provide the best information. I trust the airline rather than a law stating that the KNMI must provide certain information. Let that airline choose. She makes all kinds of considerations herself, including with regard to pilots.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-6.u11	I think the PVV is the first to request a debate when an airplane crashes due to a weather report provided by, for example, Seville again, because that was the cheapest. Maybe I'm doing this company a huge shortcoming, but okay. I do not believe that the PVV is okay with purchasing weather reports from the cheapest provider.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-6.u12	Dropping planes? I think airlines are very well able to buy the best information, whether it comes from Meteoconsult of Harry Otten or from the KNMI. I think several parties are capable of providing good information. The KNMI is not flawless. I told you, we get occasional weather alarms that shut down the NS trains, which I often think were based on a failed prediction. The KNMI doesn't predict the weather flawlessly. The KNMI should simply be able to compete, also for quality, with, for example, Meteoconsult. I shall table a motion to that effect in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-6.u13	Mr. Chairman. There are a few subjects that everyone knows about: football, politics and weather. The daily forecast of the weather is always in a warm interest. Since 1986 weather prediction has not been an exclusive task of the KNMI and commercial weather agencies do so. Since then, the position of the KNMI in the Chamber has been questioned. The bill we are discussing today is actually a conclusion to that discussion. For the CDA, it remains important that, apart from the weather talk, social security is at stake. Weather alarms, earthquake risks, weather forecasts for air traffic and warnings for road smoothness are aspects that affect all of us. So that must be well arranged. In the run-up to this law, the seismological investigation according to the CDA has been underexposed. The report of the Research Council for Security on the extraction of gas in Groningen clearly showed that the KNMI was left behind with its predictive gift of the increase in the number and severity of the earthquakes in Groningen. Statistics from the CBS indicate that the number of earthquakes since 1995 has doubled every 5.5 years. Why didn't the KNMI establish this? The earthquakes have a very big impact on the inhabitants of Groningen. They are rightly concerned about the safety of their children, their parents and themselves. They're suffering from damage and unrest. What could the KNMI have done to prevent this? In a hearing in this house, the KNMI indicated that there was not yet sufficient statistical evidence that the earthquakes were the result of the higher gas extraction. The number of earthquakes remains relatively low in the eyes of statisticians. In 2013, there were 133 quakes in Groningen. In view of our inhabitants, couldn't the KNMI have sailed more sharply to the wind and picked up the clues? How does the Secretary of State view this? What does it give the KNMI on this important point for the future? Due to the large impact of the role of the KNMI in the gas extraction file in Groningen, the CDA has a number of questions. How is it that the KNMI was not aware of the strength and consequences of the earthquakes? Who funded the research of the KNMI into the earthquakes in Groningen over the past 20 years? Was and is the independence of the KNMI sufficiently secured? Can the KNMI also advise provinces and municipalities on the risks of earthquakes? This week, the KNMI had to apologize to the Groninger Soil Movement, because it hadn't displayed detailed information on the website for weeks, because it didn't see this as critical services. At least that's what the KNMI said to the Groninger Soil Movement. This is what the CDA thinks is a blunder of the top shelf. It doesn't contribute to restoring trust. How will the KNMI in the future reflect all these critical data so transparent that control is possible? GroenLinks also gave extensive attention to this issue. In the Netherlands, knowledge about earthquakes has become very important in recent years. I wonder if our knowledge institute that is about earthquakes, the KNMI, is sufficiently equipped for this. Can the KNMI handle the increase in measurements, data treatments and reports? The CDA finds it remarkable that the work of State supervision of the Mines did not lead to more rigorous analyses until the end of 2012. This is what the KNMI should have done on its own. I would like to hear a reflection from the Secretary of State on this point. What was the underlying cause? The House of Representatives has said that it wants to be able to follow all the steps in the calculations used in the risk analyses sent to the Chamber next week. The CDA wants these calculations to be placed one-on-one. It is the calculations that were actually the starting point for the Loppersum cluster, where the gas extraction has been significantly reduced, now 100%. We want to see the same calculations for the other parts of the Groningen field. We would like to receive a commitment on this from the Secretary of State. We also want to know whether the independent committee has been able to monitor this process. The importance of transparency in this respect should not be underestimated by the cabinet, the NAM, the KNMI and the State surveillance of the Mines. We understand, of course, that this must be a co-production, including with Minister Kamp. He's also responsible on this file. Perhaps the Secretary of State and Minister Kamp will see how this information is sent to the Chamber. The Minister for Economic Affairs is currently considering whether it might be better to set up an institute for subsurface and seismology. I would like to hear to what extent the Secretary of State is involved in the plans prepared by the Minister. Is the present bill equipped to invest seismology tasks elsewhere? Could the Secretary of State also explain the impact of the cuts in the KNMI agency on seismological tasks? Does the Secretary of State agree with the CDA that priority should be given to developing expertise in the field of earthquakes? The CDA has found that aviation meteodata are provided exclusively by the KNMI. Another provider has indicated to the Chamber that it could be cheaper. Can the Secretary of State address these costs? How could the KNMI offer something cheaper? Will the ACM also check with the ACM to see whether the tariffing keeps pace with the market and, if so, how? Is it also conceivable that other parties will perform the weather tasks on behalf of the KNMI? I would like to receive a response from the Minister on this point. Furthermore, we are very curious about the answers to the questions the SP has asked about the Rathenau report.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-6.u14	Does the CDA really believe that the essential security of aviation safety should become a commercial task whereby companies undermine each other in order to provide the cheapest service to aviation? If something goes wrong with a plane, a lot of people are dead right away. Isn't that something to lay down with the government?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-6.u15	The primacy for security lies with the government. For aviation, we therefore initially see a task for the KNMI.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-6.u16	Then I do not fully understand Mrs Mulder's contribution. I thought I heard that other providers were allowed to offer in the aviation sector as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-6.u17	We have seen that it can be cheaper with other providers. Mrs Van Tongeren probably saw the same thing. This does not mean that we should have the cheapest supplier, but we must take a critical look at the costs that are being incurred. The ACM makes calculations, for example about the stamp price on the postal market, but the ACM also looks at other issues, such as the auction for radio frequencies. These are all things that are subject to calculations. This has to keep pace with market conditions. The CDA thinks that's important.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-6.u18	Mr. Chairman. Fortunately, we in this house cannot decide on the most desirable weather. If that were possible, the President's desire to limit the number of night meetings would probably be a hopeless mission. However, we need to talk about securing as reliable a weather forecast as possible. That is interesting and important for every Dutchman. It is important for safety in general, but also for air and shipping. Knowledge of climate and seismology must also be well and independently safeguarded. The relationship with the problems in Groningen has already been established by other colleagues. For years now, we have the KNMI for all these tasks. The Royal Decree of King William III established the KNMI on 31 January 1854. Professor Buys Ballot was the first headmaster. Since 1897 the KNMI is based in De Bilt. The Buys Ballot Law on the connection between wind and air pressure makes the weather forecast possible. The KNMI was one of the first institutes in the world with storm warnings and weather maps. The KNMI has become an independent and authoritative reference institution in the areas of weather, climate and earthquakes. It is an institute that provides excellent service. As an agency, it is a public organisation and has no commercial functions and objectives. The previous cabinet has decided to apply the public tasks related to meteorology and seismology to market forces. The Rutte I cabinet has linked this to a substantial cut and has decided that greater independence must be created for scientific research. The current cabinet intends to amend the KNMI Act within the lines drawn by the Rutte I cabinet. The PvdA has three comments to make. First, the new law allows the KNMI to be gradually privatised in the long term without the intervention of the Court. Secondly, the new Act introduces market forces for services offered by the KNMI to local authorities in the field of risk mitigation or mitigation. Thirdly, the definition of public tasks in the legislative proposal is limited. I'm gonna walk past these three points. The bill doesn't include the KNMI. Not the KNMI, but according to the bill, the Minister himself must take care of the tasks set out in the law. Like the Council of State, the Labour Party does not understand the problem for which this is a solution. The explanation given by the cabinet to this choice makes us even more concerned: the argument of flexibility and the ability of the minister to delegate the tasks to the most appropriate organisation means that we are giving the cabinet the opportunity to market the basic tasks of the KNMI without intervention of the Chamber. The cabinet does not intend to do so and will almost certainly designate the KNMI in the ministerial arrangement, but they still want the KNMI out of the law. With regard to the aviation meteorological services that the Cabinet intends to include in the Aviation Act, the Cabinet also states that it intends to entrust those tasks exclusively to the KNMI. We believe that the KNMI as a renowned public institution with an indispensable role in security policy should be enshrined in the law. We have tabled an amendment to that effect. The Empire will be provided with the services to be organised by the Minister free of charge. For other governments there is a delivery obligation, but those other governments are not required to purchase. They may also contract private weather agencies. The new law introduces the principle of benefit for these other authorities: they must pay the full cost at the KNMI. We doubt whether this will create a level playing field. This cost also includes costs for public services. Private weather organisations don't have those costs. Does the Secretary of State agree with us? If so, does it consider the austerity entered to be real? If this could make other organizations much cheaper, wouldn't it be a lot of customers? I come to our second point. The Labour Party believes that the same information and advice should be taken into account in security policy by all parties involved in disaster response in so-called GRIP situations. There is often already a problem of co-ordination due to the multitude of the parties involved. This problem should not be exacerbated by allowing parties to work with information from different sources. We have also tabled an amendment to this effect. We want the KNMI to continue to be subject to a reduction obligation in GRIP situations. Also Rijkswaterstaat gets his information there. In the event of imminent dangerous weather, it is important to obtain precise and unambiguous information. You must then know without discussion how exactly what angle and with what force the wind blows and for which locations taking precautions is necessary. The number of GRIP situations is so small that it cannot involve large amounts. A solution could be to continue to provide services in these situations free of charge, as at present. We do not believe that this is the least bureaucratic solution, but we have no fundamental objections to applying the principle of profit. If it is really necessary, a ministerial arrangement could envisage a flat-rate contribution to obtaining services from the KNMI in GRIP situations. This contribution could then be declared to municipalities or the RUDs. After a number of years, it could then be considered whether the actual level of that flat-rate contribution is in line with the services actually provided. The third point concerns the fact that the waterboards lack the provision of level management services in the obligation to supply public tasks. We ask the Secretary of State to justify why this important information is lacking in the obligation to supply. Finally, we believe that it is sensible that the Cabinet should, by means of a letter of amendment, ensure that the Supervisory Board ensures the independence of services and scientific research. We look forward to the Secretary of State's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-6.u19	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Mulder said that politics and football were probably the most discussed subjects besides the weather. I would have said children and football myself. Maybe there's a fact-checker somewhere in the room that can figure out who was right for us. Reliable information about the weather is very important: for myself, when I consider whether I take the bike or the tram in the morning, and for the barbecue next Saturday after the football tournament of my son. But weather information is of course also important for much more serious things: for farmers who depend on the weather for their country and for people who get on the plane. In particular, this is of course true for people at sea or for people who may have to deal with extreme weather. As long as I can remember, the information on the weather comes from the KNMI. However, in recent years other household names have indeed been added, which we will all recognize. This law governs the position of the KNMI and the tasks of the government in the field of weather, climate and geology information. The Secretary of State takes the KNMI out of the law, but she also says that nothing will change in practice. The KNMI is just going on with what it's doing. But that may change quickly, because as the proposal now states, the Secretary of State could decide at any time to abolish the KNMI. But the Secretary of State says again: I don't intend to. This leaves me with the question of the added value of this proposal. In itself, D66 can support a movement in which the tasks to be carried out by the public authorities are examined closely and which tasks can be carried out by the market. D66 is fine with you looking sharp at that. But it is of two and one: either nothing happens or you don't have to change anything either you have plans or you provide for it in the future. But then you must also involve Parliament in that consideration and not do so through a ministerial arrangement. If the Secretary of State wants to change anything, I'd like to hear from her what possibilities she sees. I saw a small point of reference, namely that there may be a European approach and a more European integration of the various weather services. That could be a reason to say that you don't want this to be as such in the law. However, the debate on the proper safeguarding of public interests must be conducted in this House. Then we can see if we agree with that cut. D66 has tabled an amendment to this effect. Actually, the amendment is in preparation. However, I would like to await the answer of the Secretary of State. I also see the amendment tabled by the Labour Party. As far as I am concerned, therefore, it depends on the direction of the debate. Then I come to the independence of the investigation. For D66 it is very important that the research into weather, climate and earthquakes is carried out completely independently. When policy decisions are made on the basis of data or reports from the KNMI, there should simply be no doubt about their independence. It is therefore very good that the Secretary of State should not give instructions about the methods and results and that there should be a supervisory board to monitor independence. However, I still have two questions. Is it also covered that a researcher, within his research assignment, can decide for himself what exactly he wants to investigate? And can the researcher always decide whether an investigation will be published? Is it possible for an investigation report to remain in the drawer without the Minister's agreement? I would like to receive a clear answer to these two points. I would also like an appreciation of the Secretary of State for the question of whether the removal of the KNMI from the law puts pressure on independence. I would very much like to hear what she thinks about that. How do we ensure, in any way, the independence of the KNMI? The Research Council for Security has recommended that research into soil movements be conducted more closely. A number of colleagues, particularly from the CDA, have rightly referred to this. In an earlier debate on gas extraction, D66 has also advocated the introduction of a more integrated research institute. Is this one of the possibilities of flexibility in the performance of the tasks transferred? Is that one of the other brackets why the Secretary of State wants to take this something else into the law? I was looking for that and I like to hear it. Then I come to the development of knowledge about earth movements and the possibilities to predict what will happen. Does that knowledge receive extra attention within the KNMI? Is the Secretary of State further in consultation with her colleague from Economic Affairs on how such an institution could be designed? At the moment, of course, not all the knowledge we need is at the KNMI. If that were the case, we would not have to think about the design of that institute. This knowledge is partly at universities and partly at TNO and it is therefore an important recommendation that this knowledge should be more integrated. What's the status here? The legislative proposal distinguishes between the basic tasks that must always be done and the additional tasks that must be carried out at cost. The rest can then be left to the market. Basic tasks include warnings for such bad weather that it could disrupt society. However, according to the Secretary of State's proposal, this must be paid for if the disruptive weather is to occur in one region. Then suddenly it's customization. A weather alarm for the whole of the Netherlands is a basic task, but a weather alarm off the coast or for North Groningen is tailor-made. Customization means asking for it and signing a contract. I think that's kind of weird. The government itself sets the example of the flood problems in 2012 and the extreme drought in spring 2011. Is it possible that the KNMI will see a major problem coming but will not do anything with it, because a municipality, a water authority or a province does not know that it is necessary to ask the KNMI for that information? In other words, is it possible for accidents to happen because information is not provided in time? If so, of course we should not want to. That is also why my group has tabled an amendment which provides for the KNMI to inform the relevant public authorities and public authorities as soon as possible in the event of real risks in order to ensure that timely measures can be taken. In such a situation, the KNMI cannot wait for a double-signed contract on the cost compensation, because this is simply part of the basic tasks of the KNMI. I also miss the Minister's responsibility to inform people about earthquakes. But not only that, because I also miss her responsibility for our volcano. Yeah, the Netherlands has a volcano and it's on Saba. The people of Saba, of course, are also entitled to information about an imminent volcanic eruption. Can the Minister explain why this duty of care is not part of the law? On this point, too, I am considering tabling an amendment. The government includes aviation weather data as a basic task in the law. This is partly related to European cooperation. I understand that, but isn't that just as useful for shipping? Or does it have an impact on the data now provided to the shipping sector? I ask the question, but I don't want to say that it should. First of all, I would like to know why a distinction is made between the aviation sector and the shipping sector. After all, they are both very international.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-6.u20	Mr. Chairman. The intention to reposition the KNMI was launched a few years ago. The VVD is in favour of a small, powerful government, which deals with core tasks. The starting point for the VVD is that everything that the market can do is left to the market as much as possible. As an agency of the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Environment, the KNMI will now deal with basic tasks that are further defined. These include the maintenance of the international and national measurement infrastructure. After all, people or companies cannot shoot satellites into the sky themselves. Other basic tasks are the provision of open data on weather and climate and the provision of safety advice, for example to aviation in the event of disasters. Commercial parties may, for a fee, use the data of the KNMI for services to be developed by them. New services are emerging at a rapid pace and this is of added value for our companies and our people. Many are interested in the weather forecast. What's the most talked about? I think that's it again. An integral cost calculation also puts an end to unfair competition by the KNMI. That is a good development and that is why we support the proposal. This morning I read in the Dagblad van het Noorden (Dagblad van het Noorden) a number of colleagues also talked about the fact that the KNMI did not publish detailed information on earthquakes on its website for weeks due to technical defects. That was customary until 27 May. Has this been corrected? Can this information still be published? Openness of information by an independent institute such as the KNMI is important here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-6.u21	I heard my colleague from the VVD say that she thinks open data is important. She also argued that the Groningers are very interested in the information about those earthquakes. Does the VVD then agree with GroenLinks that the information collected by the KNMI about these earthquakes should be properly unlocked and accessible to citizens, but also to any other researchers who want to look at that information?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-6.u22	As far as I know, that has already been the case and was the case until 27 May. People who are regularly familiar with this on the website have rightly called the doorbell when it has not been the case in the last few weeks. That is why I asked the Secretary of State if that information could be published.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-6.u23	It would be very nice to complete that dataset. However, it is not yet possible to check the design of research. I was just trying to explain in my contribution that Germany and Denmark consistently measure those earthquakes a little higher than the Netherlands. The KNMI applies a form of correction to this. We don't have any insight into how that happens. GroenLinks would like to make that information available to citizens and other researchers. Is that what the VVD wants?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-6.u24	As far as I know, that information is available. It's on the KNMI website. This has not been the case in the past week, and it must be restored. I honestly do not understand very well where Mrs Van Tongeren is going with her question. I am not aware of the fact that Germany and Denmark seem to give higher values.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-6.u25	This brings to an end the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-6.u26	Mr. Chairman. A lot of questions have been asked. I'm going to do my utmost to meet you by being short. I leave the look-back for what it is, because a number of people have already looked at the history of the KNMI and of Buys Ballot. The new law regulates the tasks of the government in the areas of weather, climate, seismology and other geophysical phenomena, both in the European part of the Netherlands and in the Caribbean part of the Netherlands. The law has a different design than the current law on the KNMI. This bill no longer mentions the KNMI as an organisation. To avoid all kinds of questions and interruptions: I will discuss the amendments separately in a moment, and I will therefore embrace the amendment to bring the KNMI back into the law separately. These tasks will be entrusted to the Minister, who will then hand them over to the KNMI. Establishing my duty of care in the field of meteorology and seismology in law and its organisation in a ministerial decision provides greater flexibility and clarity. As far as I am concerned, this is an improvement on the current situation. In this way it is also regulated by Rijkswaterstaat and the ILT. The law describes the basic tasks and the scientific independence of the research is secured in two ways in the legislative proposal. The Minister of I and M refrains from giving clues. This task shall be entrusted to the management of the investigations. In practice, that's just the head of the KNMI. There is also an independent supervisory board that guarantees the quality of the research. There are relationships with the weather companies. In recent years, between the submission of the legislative proposal and its discussion, it is, in practice, clear how things are positioned. In practice, a lot has happened. Why another KNMI? That is not asked by the elderly, because they are attached to the KNMI. I can be brief: there is simply a need for a reference institute that warns us and informs us when there is a dangerous or society-destructive weather. At the KNMI, public authorities, the Empire and other public authorities can, at any time, obtain information in the field of security, public order and population care. In addition, the weather companies obtain their measurement data and model information from the KNMI. The important starting point for drafting the bill is for me to create clear relationships with those weather companies. I, too, spoke to those weather companies. That was quite a while ago, and now I see that this has been very well done. The starting point is that the KNMI is there to deliver products and services to the Empire, such as weather warnings, scientific research and the general weather forecast. In addition, the proposal explicitly provides that decentralised government organisations may also use the KNMI in the event of dangerous weather or society-disrupting weather or in the event of disasters. In order not to distort the relationship with the market, governments pay the full cost of the KNMI in the purchase of services, in accordance with the Market and Government Act. I'll get back to you in a few minutes for some people. Mr Smaling ended fairly consistently. He asked, "Why don't you withdraw the bill?" I believe that the legislative proposal is important for ensuring the proper performance of the tasks of the KNMI, such as data collection, which then takes place in one place. In addition, the bill provides for a clear separation or, reworded, a demarcation of what is going on at the KNMI and what is on the market. I need this law for the future resilience of this model. With that, I can organize that. In that sense I say: unfortunately I mean: unfortunately for Mr Smaling, perhaps I am not withdrawing this bill. Mr Smaling wondered whether the bill complied with the obligation of care under Article 44. Of course, we have an important duty of care in the field of meteorology and seismology, and the KNMI plays an essential role in this. The legislative proposal addresses this duty of care by explicitly stating in Article 3 that these are tasks which fall within the minister's duty of care. The Minister is therefore responsible for carrying out these tasks. For this purpose, the Minister calls on the KNMI. Mr De Vries of the Labour Party has asked whether, without the intervention of the Chamber, duties can go to the market. No, tasks can't just be privatized. The Minister of I and M remains legally responsible for the proper performance of the tasks mentioned. Where aviation meteorology is concerned, one provider may be designated under international conventions. For example, this could also become a European partnership, but this role remains secure as a public interest. Mr Smaling asked: what is it worth that the KNMI will not reject tasks? The tasks to be carried out in the air are simply contained in the bill. They are also dedicated to the Ministry of I and M. The way in which these tasks are carried out can be flexibly arranged under ministerial arrangements. In doing so, safety authorities can simply contact the KNMI. Mr Smaling asked if it pleased that there was no programme board. Indeed, the programme board no longer exists. The joint public clients of the KNMI give guidance to the KNMI through a client council. In this way, the overall work package of the KNMI is monitored and the coordination between public organisations is also ensured. Demand-driven work has led to a slight change in the task package, but the overall size has remained roughly the same. Mr Smaling had a question about the Rathenau Institute. The questions were answered earlier by a colleague. The report refers to the old situation of the KNMI, before 2013. A lot has changed since then. It is precisely the strict division between basic funding and external tailor-made assignments that ensures that the security tasks are properly secured. How do I handle the Rathenau report? Mr Smaling even had it with him. The report, as I see it, pays a great deal of attention to public security. It needs to be secured, too. That's important. As I said, much criticism is based on the situation before 2013. I believe that the concerns of the Rathenau report have been met with the other organisation of the KNMI and the strict separation between the basic safety tasks and the additional tasks. Ms Mulder asked if the KNMI could offer aviation meteorology services at a lower cost. The cabinet is aware, I know that there are companies that say that aviation meteorology services could be offered at a cheaper price. This is about offering part of that service. However, this offer lacks costs that allow a good comparison. If they are taken into account, there is no significant difference in the cost of the service between the private parties and the KNMI. A number of questions have been asked about the market, government and the provision of services to local authorities. I shall come back to the quakes, the anchors of the KNMI, aviation meteorology and finally to the amendments. I have already said that the KNMI supplies basic products such as weather warnings, scientific research and general weather reports on behalf of I and M. It does so in the context of the legal tasks. A measurement infrastructure has also been built and maintained for this purpose. The fact that the KNMI carries out these tasks is therefore legitimate and logical. There is a social need for a single-tone voice especially in society-destructive and dangerous weather. In addition, there is no market for strategic or fundamental research in the field of climate and seismology or for maintaining measurement infrastructure. Companies are free to make use of the data for weather reports and other weather-related products provided under the basic tasks. In the context of respecting existing market conditions, with the support of Dutch weather companies, I have formulated a number of principles and limitations for the provision of weather-related products and services by the KNMI to government organisations outside the government on the basis of the "no, unless" principle. Local authorities can therefore only directly contact the KNMI in a number of specific cases, including in relation to target group specific warnings for hazardous or societal destructive weather. The same applies, for example, to requests from the cooperating partners in the security regions in the context of public policy and security. I shall come back to that in response to the amendments, because Mrs Van Tongeren has also paid particular attention to them. In all other cases, local authorities can contact the weather companies. In the case of extreme weather conditions, local authorities can always contact the KNMI, albeit for a fee. There's no forced shopping. The KNMI, as an independent authority, may be requested by all public authorities to test weather-related products and services of others, but it will be reluctant to deal with this. Mr Smaling asked for private funding. In recent years, the tasks have been reorganised so that essential safety tasks are still well secured. It is precisely the non-critical daily weather reports that can be handled perfectly by the market. We see this on a daily basis, for example on television. Mr Smaling asked whether it would be desirable for water boards to be excluded from the KNMI for day-to-day management. They can go to the KNMI for emergencies. For daily policy, the element of security does not play a role. Market parties can provide this information to water boards. Water boards can simply decrease the basic data at the KNMI, as can other governments and market players. Mr De Vries spoke about the level of management. Waterboards can use the KNMI in crisis situations. For day-to-day level management, this safety does not play a role and market players can provide these services. Mr Madlener spoke about the privatisation of the KNMI. That was not the case and I do not think it is desirable for various reasons. As part of my duty of care, I think it is very important that I can call directly on a reference institute such as the KNMI. Moreover, most tasks cannot be privatised because there are too few market players interested in and equipped with the performance of those tasks. I believe that the measurement infrastructure is the best example of this. The business case for private companies is directly based on the free availability of those open data for the previously mentioned measurements. There would be complex and extensive external effects on large parts of society when it comes to weather alarms, earthquakes and aviation meteorological services. As far as I am concerned, it is not wise to privatise the KNMI.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-6.u27	The Secretary of State states that the essential tasks for security must be financed by the public and that other tasks can be financed privately. Then I'll get in the way of the earthquake measurement network, which is privately funded by the NAM. I assume that the Secretary of State and I agree that this is a rather essential task for security. How does the Secretary of State look at this and how do we get such a measurement work to the best available technology? The NAM pays, but we also want to know what is going on in Overijssel at the Gas Storage Bergermeer, of which the NAM says to find a lot of money to put down such a measuring network?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-6.u28	On the quakes and the questions that have been asked about them, I will come back separately.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-6.u29	Can I conclude from the State Secretary's reply that, which is not in the law but what she is saying now, the KNMI has a delivery obligation for level management?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-6.u30	If there's a call, the KNMI will pick up and answer. In this sense, the KNMI can provide that information when the waterboard needs it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-6.u31	Then my question remains as to why a lot of other matters of concern in the event of emergencies are covered by the law, while the level management is not included in the law as an obligation to supply.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-6.u32	Level management is a task of the waterboard. There is no immediate question of safety. We leave that task to the waterboard as well. I talked to the KNMI about this. If there are calamities, there can be a call to the KNMI, which I believe is getting about a thousand calls a year from local authorities, all of which are just answered. Then you should not think that that is a neat average of three per day, but if something threatens or is at issue and a local government or a security region wants information, it will join the KNMI in a short time, and then the KNMI also answers those questions. The KNMI also deals with the waterboard if there were calamities there. Mr Madlener wondered why the law gave a monopoly to the KNMI and how independent that could be. Citizens' security is a public matter. For day-to-day weather information, the market is up; I think Mr Madlener is happy about that, because that is what he wants. But there is no monopoly in that sense. Independence is guaranteed by the proposal. Mr De Vries asked whether I agree with him that the KNMI is expensive for local authorities. The cost of services to local and state authorities is determined in the same way, with the same cost model. Local authorities do not contribute to other tasks of the KNMI. For all customers of the KNMI the cost is calculated in the same way. This also secures the level playing field. Furthermore, we have been asked how the cuts will work out for the seismological research. This research is funded by the Department of Infrastructure and the Environment, customised by the Department of Economic Affairs. There's a growing line in this. Questions have been asked about the earthquakes in relation to the report of the Research Council for Security. I have taken note of that report, I am impressed by its care and I take it very seriously. Like Minister Kamp, I feel very involved in the care and safety of citizens in Groningen. The report contains two recommendations which the KNMI takes very much to heart. Recommendation 4 of the report recommends that a research programme be set up in which an integrally independent scientific and applied research into the problem is carried out. Following this recommendation, KNMI, TNO and a number of universities are developing a research programme in collaboration with the Ministry of Economic Affairs. I believe that Mrs Van Veldhoven also made the link with this. Those parties study the impact of the tremors in relation to the structure of the subsurface and the reduction of gas extraction. Independence is secured in two ways through the present legislative proposal. The KNMI has the legal right to set its own research agenda without political interference in the way research is carried out. That's important. The question was how independent the investigation was. I think it is important that research is kept independent. That's what science and researchers are for. Secondly, the Supervisory Board of the KNMI monitors the scientific quality and independence of the research. The letter of amendment to this effect has been added to the legislative proposal. The OVV report also recommends increasing transparency and dialogue and communicating about uncertainties. Here's what I'd like to say. The KNMI has developed a clearer communication on monitoring and research efforts and on their results, including uncertainties. This is also included in the objectives of the research programme of KNMI, TNO and the other parties, which I have just mentioned. I think that is very important, because people want facts. People want to be able to rely on the KNMI as a reference institution in this case. Knowledge in my view also makes it partly clearer for the people in Groningen. I will come back to what happened to the system of the KNMI, about which something was in the newspaper this morning. Mrs Van Tongeren asks whether I am sure that the KNMI will now be calling the bell in relation to the gas quakes. The KNMI has reported regularly and consistently on the gas quakes in Groningen. This communication focused primarily on relevant government organisations and bodies involved. Therefore, the report of the OOV rightly notes that clear communication on insights into potential risks with affected citizens and the general public is a matter of attention. It's gotta be better. That is what the KNMI takes to heart. Efforts and results in the field of monitoring and research, including uncertainties, will be clearly passed on to stakeholders and stakeholders, if not already done.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-6.u33	There are two possibilities. Or, as a scientist, you see something that you can't scientifically make quite hard, and in a vague conclusion you send it up in the hope that something will happen to it, or you see that something can have huge consequences, for example for the people of Groningen, and put big red dots on your piece of work. In 1995 the KNMI noted in a report that there might be a relationship between gas extraction and earthquakes, but did not put red flashing lights on them. How do you get such a culture change that next time the KNMI will?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-6.u34	I'll leave that to the KNMI. The report of the Research Council for Security has been discussed and embraced firmly within the KNMI. I think it is important to act as transparently as possible. The KNMI should do this better or better. It's up to the institute to decide how it's going to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-6.u35	I agree with the latter, but the Secretary of State must see to it that it is done. It didn't happen in the past. Within organizations, changes do not happen on their own. What will the Secretary of State do to ensure that this desired cultural change is underway? Is she going to lay down some things in the law? I'd like to put this to the Secretary of State in a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-6.u36	I do not know whether there should be a huge cultural change within the KNMI or whether it should be much more aware of the fact that other groups should also receive certain information. Is there a need for cultural change? I don't know. I think it is important that it be anchored. I'll talk to the Supervisory Board about it, among other things. I think it is important that they monitor this. In the end, we will see how this is taken up in annual reports and in the actions of the KNMI. The report of the OVV is strongly embraced. I thought it was a good report, the result of serious and thorough work. The KNMI has also learned its lessons. This will have to be demonstrated by behaviour, including information, research and communication. Ms Van Tongeren asked if the KNMI would have chosen another best technology if the KNMI were independent. Monitoring earthquakes with seismometers and accelerometers is the best technology that is currently being applied. Tilt meters show only one displacement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-6.u37	A quick question, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-6.u38	You should have both: a measurement of the displacement and that other measurement. That's the best technology. The NAM has opted for one measurement and in Groningen the scientists say that the tilt system should be added.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-6.u39	I'm not an expert on seismology. I think there's a seismologist here today. Yeah, I even got him in the picture. I think it is important that the debate on the best technology is conducted by experts. I am certainly prepared to send Mrs Van Tongeren a letter explaining the measurement systems. When two non-experts start talking about the best technology, it gets very complicated. I do not want to do that, because I believe that the dossier should be handled with all due care, also in view of its weight.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-6.u40	I am very pleased with this commitment from the Secretary of State. Perhaps she can also take into account the aspect of private funding, because that is, of course, the crux: who pays, determines.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-6.u41	Let me start with the technological aspect. I'm gonna see if I can run into the private funding. If that is not the case, I shall come back to Mrs Van Tongeren's question later. In any case, I think it is important that we provide a good technical and substantive answer. Ms Mulder asked why the KNMI had not seen the increase in earthquakes since 1995. It has been established by the KNMI and reported in several reports and scientific publications. Mrs Mulder then asked what the KNMI could have done to prevent unrest, despite the scientific uncertainties. The KNMI has acted consistently and reported earthquakes. The research results are available to the public, but I will come back to the OVV report. The KNMI should communicate its research results more clearly. That was clearly from the OVV report. I have just said how I judge that and how I think it should be done. Mrs Mulder asked whether the KNMI could handle the measurements and the data treatment of the earthquakes. Why hasn't there been sharpness since 2012, she adds. The monitoring and procedures of the KNMI comply with international standards. The measuring work is constantly being expanded, which means that smaller and smaller tremors can be measured. In this sense, the KNMI can indeed handle the measurements of the tremors. Mrs Mulder asks several questions in this line. Because of the importance of the questions and the dossier, I think it is important to answer all the questions one by one. That's why I'm going through the whole line of questions. The KNMI would not have sufficient vision of the earthquakes. The KNMI has consistently measured and reported the earthquakes. Knowledge of earthquakes and gas extraction still needs to be built up. That is also happening, because it is an ongoing process because the knowledge in the world and in the Netherlands was not available.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-6.u42	The Secretary of State has answered many of my questions, for which I am grateful. I specifically asked the Secretary of State to reflect on the fact that due to the SodM at the end of 2012, the importance of the earthquakes and their impact on the inhabitants of Groningen really came to light. Actually, the KNMI should have. How does the Secretary of State reflect on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-6.u43	The KNMI is independent in terms of observations and research and cooperates with different partners. The OVV report has given very clear new indications regarding transparency and cooperation. Those recommendations should be followed vigorously. I know that this dossier has also been discussed extensively with Mr Kamp. I am actually answering the questions very much from the KNMI. I do not mind that in itself, but when it comes to the broad dossier, it is relevant that there have already been several debates with Mr Kamp. I would like to stress this very briefly from the KNMI.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-6.u44	Mr Kamp is then the Minister for Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-6.u45	Oh, sorry, Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-6.u46	It doesn't matter, I'll just help you with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-6.u47	I understand that we are holding most of the debates with Minister Kamp for Economic Affairs. However, because today it is specifically about the KNMI and because it was also mentioned in the report of the Research Council for Security, I found it relevant to refer this point specifically to the Secretary of State. She says that this cooperation should be much better. At the same time, it indicates that communication from the KNMI to residents and governments should also be improved. There must be steps in this direction. Knowing that research is still being carried out into a possible new knowledge institute, bringing together all the knowledge of the various parties, does the Secretary of State consider it necessary to deal with this law in its entirety already? Or does she say: perhaps we should wait a little longer, because that will have great influence on this? How does the Secretary of State view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-6.u48	I was going to answer that question, but I can do that now. A file builds up, in this case the quake file. The debate on this is taking place in the Chamber with Minister Kamp. So is the KNMI. An institute develops into a file. Through the report of the Research Council for Security, people will fill out their own role differently, e.g. sending text messages after tremors. I think that's important. That's a form of communication from the KNMI. When it comes to the implementation of a new institute and who has what role in it, I think it is important to talk about it. I'll talk to my colleague Camp about it. We need to see who's doing what now and where you can best invest it. In this case, I'm very careful. The situation in Groningen is quite unique. Worldwide, there are no or hardly similar situations. I think it is important that, if we take steps now, we take those steps well thought out. I can imagine people living in the area wanting answers quickly. But I can also imagine that the moment you bail that out, you look very closely at who does what in a new institution and how things come together. I'm still having that conversation with Minister Kamp, from the KNMI.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-6.u49	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-6.u50	I come to the anchoring of the KNMI, aviation meteorology and the amendments. The question is why the KNMI cannot be anchored in the law. I have actually already replied to that, but I shall come back to the amendment in a moment. The same goes for Mrs Van Veldhoven's question. In that sense, I could have skipped it, because I shall return to the amendment on that too. I'm joining aviation meteorology. Mr Madlener asked why we did not let them choose for themselves. The continuity and quality of services are of exceptional importance for Dutch civil aviation in terms of safety, efficiency, capacity and the environment. I have discussed this with air traffic control, the KLM and the Ministry of Defence. They have now indicated that they do not see any reason, either financially or qualitatively, to choose another party. In addition, they see operational risks when switching to another provider, including in terms of security, continuity and capacity. The question about aviation and shipping is a logical question. For the continuity and quality of service to aviation, it is important to place the service with one party. This is also an international obligation for aviation. So that is just what an agreement is about. Ms Mulder asked if the KNMI could offer the aviation meteo service at a cheaper price. I have already said that the cabinet knows that private parties from the business community say that this can be cheaper. However, these costs are not well comparable. If you make those costs comparable, you can see no significant difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-6.u51	Mrs. Mulder, I'd like a quick question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-6.u52	Then the ACM will check whether it is really always market-oriented. Otherwise it may be 'just like' or 'just like' and then we will have discussions about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-6.u53	I think that the ACM and the Competition Act are the basis for making sure that there is always a proper calculation and calculation. If one of the parties does not think that is the case, it can also go to the ACM. What does the ACM do? He's investigating that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-6.u54	That's why the security deposit is very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-6.u55	I come to the amendments, first of all the amendment to item No. 9 by Mrs Van Tongeren. The amendment draws attention to the importance of collecting seismological data for research into indicated earthquakes. I recognize the importance of investigating these earthquakes. It is very topical and it is a very important task, but research into indicated earthquakes is an integral part of seismology. More than 70% of the research carried out by the KNMI in the field of seismology is currently on indicated earthquakes. The bill regulates all that research into seismology and thus the desired research into indicated earthquakes are public tasks. That makes this amendment superfluous. In that sense I therefore advise against it: it is not necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-6.u56	Mrs. Van Tongeren, I'd like a quick question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-6.u57	If we all recognise how important it is to regain the confidence of the Groningen people in the government and if we know that a WOB procedure, which is possible with all government data, is quite complicated, what would be against actually anchoring it in the law? Then the Groningen and other scientists will know that they can access it. The Secretary of State says this doesn't actually collide, because it already does. Then why wouldn't you want to anchor this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-6.u58	The bill already provides that research into seismology and thus those desired investigations are public tasks. So we would say: it is settled, but just to be safe, we say twice that it is settled. That is why I said that the amendment is superfluous. In that sense, I advise against it, because it is already anchored.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-6.u59	In the opinion of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, this amendment anchors it more firmly and gives the Minister an active role in this area rather than a passive one: what is there must, in principle, be public, as we have said for all datasets. Again, I do not understand why the Secretary of State would not want this, because this is not against her interests. She actually wants this too and this just makes it firmer and clearer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-6.u60	I'm sticking to my reasoning: arranging something twice doesn't make it better arranged. It's supposed to take care of it once. I consider this amendment to be a breach of the rules governing mining activities and the alignment of tasks between TNO and the KNMI. That is why I do not recommend this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-6.u61	We just heard the Secretary of State say that all the information about the earthquakes is public. That information is about our Dutch subsurface. That's exactly the kind of information people need when looking for heat in the same subsurface. The KNMI has that information. Part of it is company-confidential. What is against making it available to the people who are going to produce sustainable geothermal energy?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-6.u62	We're watching from the KNMI right now. This law is also about meteorology and seismology. I tried to indicate that this is being arranged in another place, namely in the Mining Act. I think this is intersecting. That is why I reject this amendment. The content of the amendment should be regulated in the Mining Act. That is what I am trying to explain to Mrs Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-6.u63	The Secretary of State therefore proposes that GroenLinks arranges the making available of this information from the KNMI at a subsequent treatment of the Mining Act, rather than the law on the KNMI.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-6.u64	Or, and how the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance wants and can regulate that, I leave it to that group. However, I would point out that as far as these data are concerned, the advisory task is laid down in the Mining Act and that this is not currently a public task for the KNMI. That's what we're talking about right now. I come to the amendment to item No. 11. This will ensure that the design and results of scientific research are made public. I think this is important: public sector information is important and that is why the Cabinet also has an open data policy. This amendment specifically monitors the publication of the design of scientific research. This can also help to ensure the independence of the investigation. The legislative proposal already provides for research results to be made public. It is established practice that the research design is also made public when the research results are made public. I have nothing against it in itself if that is explicitly reflected in the legislative proposal. I leave the amendment to the judgement of the Chamber, but in the way I have described it now. The amendment in part No. 12 by Mr De Vries, on the provision of services to local authorities in the event of social dislocation and calamities. This amendment obliges local authorities to take services away from the KNMI in the event of disasters in which it again plays an important role. At present, the KNMI receives around 1,000 requests for support per year from local authorities in society-disrupting weather. This is the case, for example, in extreme weather conditions, such as at Pinkpop and during the large fire in the recycling company in Moerdijk, but also in local calamities, such as a local fire in a supermarket. This shows that, even without this obligation, local authorities themselves decide to consult the KNMI in the event of society-destructive weather and calamities. This amendment introduces the freedom of local authorities to make their own choice for a service provider. This does not fit in with the purpose of how the law has now been drafted: not mandatory weather and shopping. This amendment is also a derogation from what has been agreed with meteo companies. I therefore advise against this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-6.u65	In my speech, I referred to GRIP situations. When it gets really exciting, it is important that participants in a calamity consultation have unambiguous information from one source. I asked if the Secretary of State agrees with me. If that's the case, you're gonna have to take care of that purchasing obligation in this law. Otherwise, each government can go back to consulting its own supplier and then there is no clear information.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-6.u66	In practice, this situation does not appear to exist. The question is whether, in the spirit of the Trade Act, I am being accepted as Mr De Vries' amendment. Let me put it this way: if this amendment were to be adopted, there would have to be objective standards and then you could ask yourself whether that should be GRIP. In any case, it must be objectively determined when there is a calamity. That is why I am looking at the amendment in this way. I also do that because I see the practice of the 1,000 phone calls, the behaviour and what Mr De Vries wants right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-6.u67	I understand that, but I am therefore considering explicitly mentioning a GRIP situation in my amendment. Whether that's gonna be GRIP-2 or GRIP-3, I'm gonna have to figure it out. When it gets exciting, in my opinion, the information really has to come from one source. The Secretary of State has not yet responded. Of course, when all these government servants are sitting together in the emergency meeting, they should not get into another fight about what the right source is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-6.u68	So that doesn't seem to be the practice. The practice is to act there and to call the KNMI. That is the practice, and that is why I am sticking to my reasoning to discourage the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-6.u69	I am glad that this amendment is not recommended, because the idea of the PvdA that only one source would lead to quality seems to me to be very out of date. You guarantee the quality by allowing scientists to compete. The Secretary of State says that the free choice of local authorities is important. Choice also means choice in price, which in turn means monitoring a fair playing field. Does the Secretary of State agree and how will it ensure that other market players can compete fairly with the KNMI?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-6.u70	I have just answered exactly the same question from the CDA Group, namely that there are no significant differences in the cost structure. If a party were to say that there is no level playing field and there is no fair competition, it could be indicated to the ACM. After all, the ACM is the body to be addressed. Mr. Chairman. The amendment in part No. 13 regulates the position of the KNMI in the law. As the PvdA Group pointed out, the KNMI is a renowned institute that plays an essential role in the security of society. Therefore, there is no policy plan to outsource KNMI services, such as weather warnings, general weather reports, aviation meteorology or scientific research. The present bill disconnects the Minister's duty of care from the way in which the duty of care is carried out. This brings added value, because it harmonises legislation and regulations. Designation of the implementing authority at a lower level in the regulatory framework makes the legislative proposal easier to implement and more flexible. That makes the bill future-proof. It is also a reason not to designate the KNMI at law level. Since there are no policy intentions to outsource the services of the KNMI, the amendment does not bring about any material change for me and I can leave the opinion on the amendment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-6.u71	I find that really incomprehensible. The Minister has long thought about the bill and finally chosen not to include the KNMI in the law, so that perhaps there is not now, but perhaps in the future the freedom to choose someone else. I can imagine that there is no need for this now, because the KNMI is doing very well. Then why does the Secretary of State suddenly include it in the law? After all, another State Secretary will no longer have the option of choosing someone else. Why this essential turn of the Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-6.u72	As I said, the amendment does not bring about any material changes for me at the moment. I can therefore leave the opinion on this amendment to the House.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-6.u73	I repeat my question. If a next Secretary of State decides differently and wants to consult or perhaps order someone other than the KNMI, is that still possible if this amendment is adopted?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-6.u74	Yeah, well, then there could be a change of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-6.u75	I'm on the other side of the coin, but the question is a little bit the same. What possibilities will be lost if we put the KNMI back in the law versus the solution proposed by the Secretary of State himself first? What were the advantages of this, which she proposed and did not immediately start to leave the KNMI in the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-6.u76	I just indicated what the added value was. It harmonises the laws and regulations in relation, for example, to agencies of my ministry such as Rijkswaterstaat and the ILT. These agencies are also designated in lower regulation. The designation of an implementing authority at a lower level makes it easier to implement and more flexible. The other argument is that there is no policy idea. That is what I read in the amendment and I hear even more clearly in this debate. That is why this amendment does not change it. I have described the added value versus the material consideration. In the amendment to item No. 14 is proposed to inform the public about soil movement and volcanic activity. This is already the practice of the KNMI, although this has not been formally established. In this context, mandatory support at the request of administrative bodies is also appropriate. I think it's a nice proposal. There is also a need for the government to provide citizens with the best possible information and advice on the geophysical phenomena and consequences. Therefore, the proposed research programme of the KNMI will include the question of how the society in Groningen can be better informed about the recorded tremors, their impact and the associated scope of action. I leave the opinion on this amendment to the Chamber. For the amendment to item No. 15 is the same argument as for the Labour Party's amendment on designation at law level. I should've done it all at once, that's how I realize it now. I also leave the opinion on this amendment to the Chamber. In the amendment to item No. 16 is proposed free of charge to administrative bodies in the event of dangerous or social destructive weather or calamities. First of all, I'd like to mention that "free of charge" doesn't exist. If so, then I can imagine that a number of other things are the other way around. The bill requires local authorities to pay for this service. This creates a level playing field with meteo-business life. That's exactly what we agreed to with them. The principle of profit is the starting point of the legislative proposal: the user pays, even if it is another administrative body. In this sense, free support runs counter to the principle of profit and the purpose of the bill. That is why I do not recommend this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-6.u77	In the division between basic tasks and tailor-made tasks, the bill actually indicates that these custom-made tasks must be paid for. It is a basic task when there are general warnings for the whole of the Netherlands, but it is custom-made when there is a flood in Limburg. It's really about society-destructive weather or calamities. Then we're just talking about a basic job, aren't we? Then it's a national responsibility, isn't it? Then it wouldn't be appropriate to say that it's something regional, something specific? That is why I am asking specifically for only those serious situations. I'd like to see if we can put the word "free of charge."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-6.u78	There are 1,000 calls a year from local authorities, among others, about local situations, such as a supermarket fire or what happened last year on Pinkpop. It'll be charged. There's been a line drawn, and I want to leave that line there, too. The moment we extend that understanding, we do not do justice to the purpose of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-6.u79	I find it difficult to understand why a storm that could possibly affect the whole of the Netherlands will also come up with a lot of calls about it, and a storm that affects half of the Netherlands is tailor-made. In fact, that's what the Secretary of State says. So it is not in the seriousness of the situation that can be expected, but in the number of people it affects. Isn't that an arbitrary dividing line?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-6.u80	Because of the way Mrs Van Veldhoven now formulates it, it seems as if one resident is something more important than another. Of course, that's not what we're talking about here. I think Mrs Van Veldhoven knows that, too. A dividing line has been drawn after which local authorities fall for this category in the group of customization. Those calls also take place and will be answered, but they will be charged.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-6.u81	This put an end to the government's first term. I really have to suspend at 2:15. Do you think we could have completed the second term? It's hard for me to estimate that. I see you think that's possible. Then we'll continue with the second term immediately. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Smaling of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-6.u82	Mr. Chairman. I'll be helpful. I started by saying that the bill was referred to by the Council of State as a solution to a non-existent problem. I am still of that opinion. One of Mr De Vries' amendments makes it a little better, because it will bring the KNMI back into the law, but it still raises the question of whether the legislative proposal is really necessary. I asked the Secretary of State about the financing of the KNMI. That's what we're worried about. I had prepared a motion for that, but I would like to hear from her how she sees it. Is the Institute being reduced to an absolute minimum or is there any possibility of reviewing the financing of the KNMI and making sure that it is sufficient for the maintenance of this institution? I have one motion and it's about the report from the Rathenau Institute. That is a somewhat broader motion, which is not just about the KNMI. I hope the Secretary of State can embrace her. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the KNMI belongs to a group of institutions dealing with regulatory science, a form of scientific research that derives its relevance from a policy context;]] [[Whereas the KNMI is part of the disaster infrastructure and is therefore part of a chain which should be able to act on the basis of uniform data;]] [[Considers that the Rathenau Institute, in its report "Safe Understanding," makes a meaningful analysis of the value of public knowledge institutions such as the KNMI for the safety of the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the Government to respond comprehensively by the end of 2015 to the conclusions and recommendations drawn in the report on Understanding Safe, in particular on key tasks, financing, quality control and independence,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Smaling. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33802-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-6.u83	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I should like to express my surprise and disappointment that this debate has shown that the Secretary of State is now leaving an amendment to the opinion of the Chamber, which reintegrates the KNMI into the law and thus does not allow the successor of this Secretary of State to choose another institution. That was precisely the profit of this law. This would remove some of the legal tasks from the KNMI and eliminate automation. That does not mean that the KNMI could not get the assignment, but it does mean that a choice can be made for the best party. That profit may now be removed from the law. I am very sorry to hear that. I hope the House will not support that amendment. As far as we are concerned, the KNMI is being privatised. That doesn't mean they stop working, no, that means they get orders from the government, for example. I'm confident the KNMI can handle it, too. Let's be honest: the weather forecast has become a global science, and more and more parties are doing so also for Dutch territory. That's fine. The KNMI should be able to stand on its own feet as a market player, as MeteoGroup does successfully. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas there are now sufficient market players to carry out the traditional tasks of the KNMI;]] [[calls on the government to privatise the KNMI,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Madlener. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33802-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-6.u84	Mrs Van Tongeren has been present again, so I give her the floor for her second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-6.u85	Mr President, I apologize. I'd actually be in another AO right now, and I was trying to figure something out. Thanks for the coulance. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Research Council for Security concluded that the KNMI had a cautious attitude to conducting research into earthquake risks from gas extraction;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the desired cultural change is achieved at the KNMI and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the magnitude of earthquakes in the Netherlands is determined differently by the KNMI than by institutes in the neighbouring countries;]] [[calls on the Government to ask the KNMI to re-examine its current method of determining the magnitude by reference to the method used internationally,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33802-19]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33802-20]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-6.u86	I will conclude with a question about maintaining or extending concrete measurement points for greenhouse gases, not only CO but also methane, for example. The Secretary of State has solved that for one year. Does it see it as a permanent task for the government not only to calculate it, but also to measure, as in the countries around us, the state of our greenhouse gas emissions?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-6.u87	Mr. Chairman. I have another supplementary question; I did not manage to put it by interrupting. Is the Secretary of State prepared to look very carefully together with the Minister at how we might do this with such a new seismological institute? How do we bring together all this knowledge about earthquake cases? Does the Secretary of State still want to wait for this law? Does she think she needs more time to do so? Or does she think that all this can be done, because we can still settle this? I had prepared a motion for a resolution on this, but I think the Secretary of State can very well answer this question. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the risk analyses carried out by State supervision of the Mines in 2013 for the Loppersumcluster should be the starting point for the risk analyses for the entire Groningenveld and the small fields;]] [[Whereas research data should be comparable;]] [[Calls on the Government to monitor the independence, transparency and presentation of the research data and risk analyses and to indicate how these calculations were made in comparison with the 2013 risk analysis of State surveillance of the Mines of the Loppersumcluster,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Agnes Mulder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33802-21]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-6.u88	Mr. Chairman. The Labour Party is pleased that the Secretary of State embraces our amendment to leave the KNMI in the law. I say to Mr Madlener: we do not hope that it will ever be necessary, but if there ever is a moment, the Chamber must be able to take a decision on it, and it must not be implicitly taken by a ruler. We consider it important that the House remains committed to this. With the inclusion of the KNMI in the law, we also arrange that the door to privatisation cannot be opened. For the rest, I welcome the answers of the Secretary of State regarding its independence and its assurance. In my view, this is reassuring in relation to the earthquake problem. However, I am left with the fact that in the case of the GRIP situation, I shall be voting in favour of my amendment. 12 so that that term is also called "a team from all different sources gets information. I do not think that this is acceptable, and that is why I am maintaining that amendment, with the amendment that will be made later. With regard to the latter, I would like to say the following. I understand from the words of the Secretary of State that I do not have to worry about the obligation to supply level management: if a waterboard asks for that information in the event of a calamity, it will be delivered.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-6.u89	Mr. Chairman. It's been a long time since we've been treating this law. I have to say that, even after this discussion, I still have a little bit left to do with the question of what the greatest added value of this bill is. I have asked the Secretary of State a number of times: why are you doing this, why are you doing that? I'll let it work on me. I do not have any further motions, but the amendment on society-disrupting situations that could also occur in part of the Netherlands is a very important amendment for me. Let me see if I can focus on something else, so that it is clear what it is about and not, as the Secretary of State actually says, take down too much of the system of the law, because I am only concerned with the particular situations. Perhaps that will help to make the whole bill even more attractive. I have one further question, namely the financing of the measuring mast in Cabauw, the mast for measuring climate data. There has been a discussion about this for some time now. Can the Secretary of State inform us about the state of play on this matter? That is not necessarily necessary now, in this debate. If we can get a letter on that, I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-6.u90	Just to be safe, I'll check on the VVD spokesperson. I understand she didn't want to speak anymore. That's right. Then there is an end to the second term of the Chamber. The Secretary of State wants to suspend for one minute. We're gonna suspend, but don't call.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-6.u91	Mr. Chairman. A number of motions have been tabled and a number of questions put. I'll be back on Cabauw in a minute. I shall begin with the Smaling motion in part No. 17 on the report Understanding on Safe. That's an interesting question. The advice of the Rathenau Institute has already been largely realised by the KNMI. The report is from 2013. I understand there has been a reaction to it before. That would mean that the cabinet would respond to it for a second time. I do not see the added value of that at the moment. That's why I don't recommend the motion. I hear someone shouting that the motion in part no. 18 is a very good motion, but I still have to dissuade her. Mr Madlener knows how I feel about the privatisation of the KNMI. The Van Tongeren motion in part No. 19 concerns the wish of a cultural change at the KNMI. There are two flavors. I have indicated that I think it is important that the KNMI anticipates the way this dossier develops and that it looks more broadly at the way it communicates. The Supervisory Board must ensure that this is done. That road has been set in motion. If I may read the motion in this way, I see her as a support for policy. However, if I am expected to bring about a huge reorganisation and organise everything at the KNMI which is not on the agenda, I must advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-6.u92	I have seen Mrs Van Tongeren, who tabled the motion, nodding at the first explanation. Then the motion is support of policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-6.u93	That's right. The Van Tongeren motion in part No. 20 is about a re-evaluation of the method of determining magnitude. It's not a question of recalibrate. The KNMI measures accurately because it is closer to the quake. The KNMI already works according to international standards. That's why I don't recommend the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-6.u94	We have received an explanatory letter in which the Minister admits that there will be a review. Historically, we already do. The Secretary of State has promised that she will send another letter. Can this subject be included in that letter? After all, Minister Kamp has already reported that in the Netherlands there is a different calibration than in the neighbouring countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-6.u95	I don't have a problem with admitting that. If an answer has already been given to which this is a supplement, I can agree. As a result, I am not getting any more excited about the motion. In the Mulder motion in part No. 21 the government is invited to monitor the independence, transparency and presentation of the research data. I have just indicated how important I think it is that this is anchored. This is already monitored by the Supervisory Board and by international reviews. That's why I don't recommend the motion. Then I'll answer the questions. The question about the financing of the KNMI will be included in the letter I have just promised. I hope that Mr Smaling agrees. I have already indicated that I attach great importance to the measurement facilities of the KNMI, including the Cabauw measuring facility, which we are financing. A working group chaired by the head of the KNMI is currently examining the establishment of the measuring facility in Cabauw. This working group also advises on the financing of CO and methane measurements. I expect this advice after the summer and will forward it with my appreciation to the Chamber. Mrs Mulder asked whether we should wait for this law to be introduced. As far as I am concerned, the answer is no. I think the introduction of the law can continue. The dossier referred to by Mrs Mulder will develop further.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-6.u96	The amendments, the legislative proposal and motions for resolutions will be put to the vote next Tuesday. I thank everyone for being here.
