ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u1	A warm word of welcome to the Minister. I'm glad you're here. It's a little quiet tonight in Box K. We had hoped for a few more people, but things were a little different. There are 13 speakers from the Chamber. We have a number of sick and therefore it is a bit quieter than budgeting. The first speaker is Mr Smaling of the SP Group. He has 18 minutes of speaking time, but does not have to make up for that time. That's not an obligation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u2	Mr. Chairman. Last year I was the first to be here at the opening of the debate on this budget. Then I sang the chorus of the song "Happy Together." That gives me a bit of a harsh feeling, because now only the Minister is in trade-K. It was a crazy day for all of us, especially for Secretary of State Mansveld who made the decision to end it. She let us know this afternoon. Without starting a whole discussion on this subject, I would like to say as a personal note that I have had a very pleasant cooperation with Wilma Mansveld and that it is therefore hard for me from a personal point of view that this has happened. But then you'll be called a political mollusk pretty soon, because politics is a hard job and this is part of it. She'll be fine. I'm sure of it. Without going into detail about the Fyra or ProRail, I would ask the Minister whether she is prepared to say more in a general sense at the beginning of her first term about whether it is not time to say goodbye to twenty to thirty years of privatisation and self-determination without overlooking the consequences. After all, we have over and over discussions about ProRail, NS and soon also about this parliamentary survey. Is the Minister prepared, for example, to review and let go of the recommendations of the parliamentary inquiry conducted by the Upper House in 2012? Because if there is one moment to say that NS and ProRail need to be regrouped and merged into one utility in public hands, then it is now! The big question with regard to this budget is whether the Minister is in the process of completing its Infrastructure and Space Structure Vision. Or is it looking at what has happened every year, how quickly things develop and whether a change of course is needed? The budget is a cutout of this larger policy, but should you not look at what is going on? The Infrastructure and Space Structure Vision contains two and a half pages of general analysis and thirteen topics follow. That's not much. On complex and comprehensive topics such as infrastructure and the environment, you should keep an eye on whether you are still up to date. Especially by the end of a cabinet period, that might give a little extra color to the time you're on the buttons. That overseeing, I actually miss a number of things. I therefore ask the Minister to respond to this. I see, for example, that energy policy and climate/CO policy are very mixed up. I see an energy agreement with a lot of CO components, the coal plants and all the benefits they enjoy first. As a result, many gas plants have been placed in the mothballs. Last night, two leading figures in that field were still discussing each other at Nieuwsuur. That is a pity, because we are always discussing these issues in different bodies, but there is a great deal of overlap. Moreover, there is a climate summit at the door, and already you can see that exemptions are provided for for ship and aviation. Already you see many benevolent companies, but also many greenwashing companies that are effectively obstructive to ensure that their interests will not be damaged by the climate summit. I am missing two major points in this year's budget, namely the Urgenda pronunciation and Volkswagengate. Maybe those are from such a recent date that they couldn't be recorded anymore, but I do miss them. We have been concerned about these matters over the past year. In the meantime, I read in the budget text that there is a focus on things that you might wonder if they are going to work, for example the new ETS Directive. The budget document states that key elements in the review of the ETS Directive are the "enhancing annual emission reduction, the means of protecting the internationally competitive industry and simplifying ETS regulation." Those are three very different things, which are partly conflicting. You could also say that in the first half of 2016 you decided to spend your presidency mainly on pulling a dead horse, that ETS, which is not working. At the same time, I see intensifications on the road, air, rail and water, but I do not see any choices, or at least insufficient choices. I do not see how supply and demand are aligned and what are the policy choices that ensure that supply and demand shift towards less energy use, less CO emissions and better land-use planning. I also miss the question of how to get as many goods as possible that are suitable for transport by water from the lorry in the inland waterway vessel. Those are the challenges. In May, for example, there was a report in Metro or one of the magazines that 1.6 million cars will leave the door in the next ten years because young people have more affinity with a collaborative economy. Recently it was again in Metro that Dutch people suffer from asphalt addiction. That kind of thing requires an analysis. I also expect the Minister to do something about it, because those are the things we need to talk about here. We will therefore table a small amendment of limited size in order to gain a better view of the so-called modal shift. I do not know how you say that in Dutch, but it means that the chairman decides not to come here by car, but by inland waterway. Now we think that shift of modalities is invisible. I also miss a clear contribution from the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Environment to the energy agreement. We talk about wind on land, but we talk about wind on land with the Minister of Economic Affairs. In Drenthe, Groningen and other parts of the country it is largely a question of integration, as well as of acceptance and enthusiasm among the population. These are things I and M naturally think are better at, because it has more to do with group and area processes than EZ. But I and M are absent on that file.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u3	First of all, I would like to welcome the new spokesperson of the SP to this committee, but I also have a question for him. He says things like: an asphalt addiction, people have to leave the car and everyone has to take the train. Is the SP still going on bullying the driver and always yelling that all the people driving aren't doing well? Or is the SP finally going to take a new path and finally record it for the driver, who might also vote SP?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u4	Let me point out that we are not against the car at all. Besides, I was quoting something that was in Metro. My intention of this piece of text was to indicate the contradiction between two different messages. One says that young people no longer need the car. The other thing says: there is a huge response to the widening of roads and people are getting back in the car. So it was not a judgment of value, but rather a question to the Minister as to how she points out these various reports in the press.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u5	We know the SP as a party that always wants to bully the driver, with higher taxes and it is always against the construction of new roads. I can really hear the new spokesperson going on like that again. The reality is that more and more elderly people stay mobile because they can still drive, fortunately. Young people often get a little too expensive, but a lot of young people still want to get their license and get in the car to be mobile. Would it not be better for the SP to worry about the affordability of the car rather than always frustrating the construction of roads?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u6	I think both Mr Roemer and Mr Bashir have gone before me and they are not the least of them to accuse of enmity against the car. At the same time, I think it is in the interests of all of us to ensure that there is as little air pollution as possible. The Long Fund also shows that people live significantly shorter lives because of air pollution and that this increases the cost of care significantly. So I don't see what's against doing everything you can to get people without loss of comfort or without being on the road for half a day, from the car to another means of transport, without it being your intention to bully people. Another point is electric driving. There's a whole battery of second-hand electric cars coming out of the lease. Mr Groot of the Labour Party has tabled a good motion on this matter to the General Financial Reviews. Maybe the Minister can say something about that motion. These are the ways to speed up desirable developments. If I am well informed, this falls within this minister's sphere of interest. When I talk to EZ, I feel like there are all kinds of barriers in legislation around everything that has to do with smart grids, neighborhood batteries and experimental zones. I refer to the Electricity Act, the Gas Act and other legislation. We have also discussed this in detail in the context of the Environment Act, and I think that we have created space for this in the Environment Act. Can the Minister give us and the EZ colleague some help in this? I come to the maintenance of the waterways. We were uncomfortablely surprised by a report by the General Court of Auditors. It has given the strong warning that there are serious shortcomings in the maintenance of waterways and points out that the Minister wants to close the gaps with money that is actually intended for later. So you're raging money for 2020 and then you're going this way to close that hole, which would be about 400 million. Moreover, it is a reproach that the method of accounting of Rijkswaterstaat is closer to the Middle Ages than to 2015. Last year it appeared that there was too little money for the road network. Recently, there was also a shortage of hundreds of millions in the rail sector. Now there appears to be insufficient money for the waterways as well. What are we going to do about this? How does this kind of cost relate to the Minister's expensive parade horses, such as the Blankenburg tunnel and the widening of the A27? These are the things we usually discuss at the MIRT. The Inspection Environment and Transport was fairly central in the attention this morning, because the director had said at the hearing in the framework of the Fyra survey that it was her responsibility to complete a process. It took me a while to get a certain picture of it anyway, but the abstraction of course radiates from it. The ILT didn't see a train inside. How's the ILT coming? I see no less than five domains, on a wide range of themes. Is there enough knowledge? I doubt that when I hear from companies that the inspection is calling or that it is convenient to visit. When the people of the inspection arrive, they check lists. Companies want to spar with the inspectors. This also makes the work for inspection more enjoyable. The same applies to other inspections. Should we not even consider whether we can coordinate the ILT, NVWA and other inspections? In the teflon issue in Dordrecht, which has recently been asked questions by both the Labour Party and us, it appeared that the labour inspection and the environmental inspection work side by side. Perhaps the inspections are simply too busy, because we send them everywhere. I refer to the pyrazole issue in Limburg, drug discharges, quays and cabotage issues; you name it and the ILT are asked to do so. How can this be improved? Asbestos continues to concern us, because especially asbestos-containing roofs erode. An inventory study was carried out in 2014 on behalf of Gelderland and Overijssel. At 45% of the sites the intervention value under the Soil Protection Act has already been exceeded. Recent fires in Roermond, Wateringen, Harlingen and Rijswijk make you shudder if you know what asbestos can do. Our fear is that we are not going to make 2024 with the current budgets. When it comes to private efforts, for example, you run into farmers at insurmountable costs. They will immediately go bankrupt if they have to replace their large roof surfaces. In addition, after the ban on roofs containing asbestos, there is no longer any possibility to take out insurance against upholstery. Money is needed, but a broad approach is also needed. The provinces of Limburg and Overijssel have taken the lead in this. Limburg's making its own money. Our State Group in Overijssel has drawn up a plan that addresses all aspects: from good phasing and dealing with clean-up companies to asbestos processing rather than burying them in plastic bags. I also call it the development of earning models, by linking asbestos off and sun on it. As far as the latter is concerned, I would like to offer the Minister a plan. No money is being asked at the moment, but it is something that can hopefully contribute to the way in which we look at solving the asbestos problem. Maybe she can respond to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u7	I accept it and make sure it is distributed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u8	What acceleration can be achieved on top of the 75 million that has now been used to speed up asbestos up to 2020? In the area of waste treatment, a lot of steps have been taken in recent decades, but things are still emerging. People who are ahead and who are trying to reduce their waste generation have noticed that they can sometimes produce 80% less waste. Of course, these are motivated people who have the opportunity to do so. What is the Minister going to do to help the G-4, the big cities, to properly separate? We can't do it in the disadvantaged neighbourhoods yet. In the National Government there was a great article recently entitled Big City Divorce Bad. What do we want? What are we gonna do? Will waste incineration plants continue to import foreign waste at a rapid rate? Will heat grids continue to run on that foreign garbage in those AVIs? Which way do we want to go with the whole waste sector? Mr Hoogland has asked written questions about the opening of Dordrecht station. I think this is so important that I also want to report it here. Can Dordrecht also stay sufficiently unlocked with the Merwede-Linge line, which runs well? At my request, a letter has been drawn up on how the authorisation of plant protection products by the Ctgb can be better balanced with the Water Framework Directive. I still have the question of how to put that European on the fork. There is clearly a discrepancy that has not yet been resolved with the letter. I come to the Lane of the Environment in the Environment Act. Is there enough money to develop it in time? I am somewhat concerned about that. That's as far as I'm concerned about the Environment Act. I hope the Minister will be treated in the Senate before the end of the year. Here it was a reasonable pleasure. I refer to three motions for resolutions on the previous budget debate, which I wonder what happened to them. Firstly, the Smaling/De Rouwe motion (34000-XII, No. 19) on more maintenance and less construction. The budget bundle says that there is an annex which gives us an overview, but I did not find that annex. I also mention the Smaling/De Boer motion (34000-XII, No. 20) on the removal of restrictions on inland waterway transport from the Rhine Commission. I have not been able to find that motion in the budget document at all. Then there is an old motion by Paulus Jansen (33750-J, nr. 15) about pilots for hot tap water. By allowing tap water to flow into buildings at a lower temperature, you can save a significant amount of gas. There was supposed to be a pilot, but I didn't hear if there was any interest in it. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u9	You're gonna have another interruption, so you cheered too early.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u10	I have just been waiting for Mr Smaling's entire contribution. I am very curious about the SP's vision of the transport sector. I ask that because the SP has submitted a counter-budget. We appreciate that very much, but the counter-budget shows that the SP imposes an additional half a billion on the transport sector in the vehicle tax. How does the SP view the future of the transport sector?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u11	The transport sector is of course important. I have just tried to point out that there are different modes of transport, but I assume that Mrs Visser is primarily referring to freight transport. We have a second Maasvlakte, which requires improving transport possibilities by road, rail and water. Mrs Visser knows that we prefer to maximize transport by water. With the VVD we have made our efforts to make the most of inland waterway transport. Our accent is very much in that direction. If we propose to increase the burden on road transport, this also serves an environmental purpose.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u12	The VVD is also very keen on freight transport and that is why this SP proposal surprises me. The rate for an average transport company is four and a half times higher. That means a lot. I always hear the SP making a fervent plea for transport companies and international transport. It is said that people with foreign plates take away our work and we must act against it. How should this be rhymeed with four and a half times as high a Dutch holder tax for the transport sector? How does this relate to the position of the SP against the disappearance of work to foreign license plates? How can you say that you have a heart for the transport sector?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u13	That's a fair question. I am not a tax expert, and I promise Mrs Visser that I will come back to this in the second term if she agrees.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u14	Mr. Chairman. In his first contribution as spokesman for the Infrastructure and Environment portfolio as successor to Mr Bashir, Mr Smaling welcomed the fact that it was a bit strange to be standing here today after the presentation of the Committee of Inquiry's report and its conclusion by the former Secretary of State of I and M. We have already had a debate on this, but I would like to dwell briefly on it, because we have worked with this Secretary of State until today and have sought solutions to make the Netherlands more accessible. The VVD Group also thanks it through this way for its cooperation in recent years. As Mr Smaling has just pointed out, the world and, above all, the transport sector is not standing still. The Netherlands is on the move anyway, because we have taken the Netherlands seriously in the past period. Under Rutte II, 400 kilometers of additional asphalt has been achieved, including through the opening of the A4, the opening of the N35 and the broadening of the A7, which is being worked hard. A start decision on the A15 was also taken at Sliedrecht. But we continue, around Schiphol and with the A1, the A6 and the A9. Recently we discussed the Blankenburg connection and the possibility of new connections such as the A12 and the A15. We are also talking about the A13 and the A6. Freight transport is a very important element. The Maxima canal at Den Bosch is widened. We are finally going to broaden the lock at Terneuzen and the tendering process for the sea lock at IJmuiden has started.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u15	Something is happening, and that is mostly what has been decided by its predecessors. Anyway, we're also happy with what's happening. The reality is, however, that the money is now exhausted. We are also out of money, because the VVD has made a huge cut in a number of billions on the Infrastructure Fund. Is she gonna return that money now? How's she gonna do that? Until 2028 the money is gone and nothing can actually happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u16	At the General Financial Reviews, the VVD tabled a motion by Mr Harbers for the extension of the Infrastructure Fund. That is absolutely necessary, on all the modalities of the infrastructure. The VVD believes that it is right to do so when the economy attracts. Indeed, the VVD has had to take a number of measures in the biggest economic crisis since the 1930s. Now we see that exports are increasing, that investment is increasing and that employment is slowly increasing again, and then we return that money to the people who are most heavily taxed. We are also doing this year with 5 billion relief.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u17	What is increasing is, of course, the traffic jams. I do not hear Mrs Visser say that something is going to happen after 2028. The traffic jams are increasing today and until 2028 it's... still...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u18	That's a little math, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u19	Eighteen, 19 years? It's so far away I can't even calculate it!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u20	You really need to prepare it better!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u21	Yes. 2028 is certainly very far away and I don't even know how old I am, but I really expect more from the VVD. Mrs Visser comes up with a story that something is happening, but traffic jams are increasing and the VVD's investments are still totally out of the question, while the money tap is open to post-taxes to Brussels, with which they build our roads in Spain.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u22	It is a pity that Mr Madlener can count less well today, but let me help him. I call these projects precisely because something is happening. I also mentioned a number of important links for the coming years. As far as the VVD is concerned, it doesn't stop there either. Mr Madlener is right to point out that congestion is increasing, and that is because the economy is attracting again. That is all the more reason to continue with the reduction of charges and, as far as we are concerned, that also means more money for infrastructure. Unfortunately, this cannot happen in the coming year, but if the economy continues to grow, there will be more room for manoeuvre and we need to look at what more infrastructure can do. We have done so by tabling a motion to the General Financial Reviews, because we have indicated that we need to think about it now. You are right: now it takes an average of 15 years for a road to be built. Fortunately, we have just passed the Environment Act, because that will only take seven years. That's a big difference. It does mean that we have to start thinking and investing now. I would like to have you on my side to make more money go to asphalt.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u23	I thought the VVD liked to call in the careful way she manages the housekeeping and wallet. In 2025, my daughter, who is still in primary school, is now widely graduated. At least I hope so. However, Mrs Visser says that it is her solution to the problems of money in the infrastructure fund to see if the money that should actually be available in 2030 could be used by now. According to the VVD, is this carefully managed housekeeping? Do you really want to bring forward money from the distant future to spend it now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u24	I didn't say that at all. The VVD thinks we should start thinking about 2028. We once extended the MIRT Fund because we thought we might be able to bring the Olympic Games to the Netherlands. That is why the deadline was chosen until 2028. For some doom-thinkers, the world may end after 2028, but that certainly doesn't apply to us: the world will go on, just like the infrastructure world. That means we have to start thinking about what we're gonna do. That is why we have said that the MIRT, but at least the Infrastructure Fund, should be extended. As far as we are concerned, however, it is not just an extension and we are also going to look at an extension. This is not yet happening this year, but we too are very well aware of the increase in congestion and the need to do something about it, namely to extend the MIRT Fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u25	Then we agree that we both think that in 2028 and beyond, money will be needed for the mobility needs of the moment. The possible choice to extend the infrastructure fund is therefore not a solution to today's issues, because it would be very careless to spend that money now. Major deficits have been observed in the infrastructure fund. If Mrs Visser does not allow the money to be brought forward, what is the solution, in her view, to the deficits identified, for example, by the General Court of Auditors?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u26	It is a pity that Mrs Van Veldhoven was not present at the legislative consultation on budgetary research, because at that time we spoke explicitly about the observations made by the General Court and how they relate to the observations made by the Ministry and the infrastructure fund. It's very clear. In 2010, Rutte I found that there was 3.8 billion in overdue maintenance, both on the waterways and on the railways and on the roads. Then it was said, "We're gonna fix that. We are going to do that by filling part of the free investment space from 2028 with it. Secondly, we are going to make sure that this does not happen again. We are going to ensure that, in future, every new decision will include structural arrangements for the corresponding replacement and investment needs in management and maintenance." The Chamber went along with that. The Chamber has said that we are doing this free investment area, but especially from 2020. The Court has done so with the argument: "Dear Minister, we do not want delays in projects. We want all projects to continue." At that time, the Minister was told to consider whether the methodology used up to 2010 could solve it every year. Does that deserve the beauty prize? No. But has he been working on it? Yes. Does that mean that there should be room for management and maintenance? Yeah, absolutely. That's what you have to do structuralally. That's why I said it was a good move. We must continue to do so now. This shows once again that the MIRT Fund needs to be expanded. After all, you need both management and maintenance and new investments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u27	A brief factual remark. I understand that it is easy for the VVD Group of 40 to be present at all debates. Smaller groups do not always succeed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u28	You're excused.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u29	I still find it odd that the VVD pretends that there is no climate change, no energy agreement and no verdict in the climate case when we talk about roads, asphalt and cars. All I hear is that there is a growing need, the economy is attracting and so more asphalt. I would ask the spokesman to reflect on that. Like GroenLinks, does the VVD think that the climate judgment should simply be carried out? If so, does the VVD accept that this will have consequences for how we in the Netherlands will organise the transport, also by road?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u30	The answer may be pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u31	No, that's the big difference between the VVD and GroenLinks. Our perception of how people should move is different. We do not believe that people should be obliged to enter the State. We believe that people have freedom of choice when it comes to mobility. The Urgenda debate has been strongly held here. My colleague, Mr Dijkstra, also present in this Chamber, said on behalf of the VVD that the judge sat on the seat of politics. We agreed on an energy agreement with each other. We are therefore on the right track, for example for the mobility sector. It has made tremendous efforts and is on track to achieve the objectives.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u32	I note that the VVD clearly does not consider it necessary to execute a judge's judgment. I would then like to hear an explanation of how the transport part of the energy agreement is now being rapidly completed in the light of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u33	Mrs Van Tongeren did not pay attention to the rule of law either, because the government is also taking steps in relation to the climate judgment. Until then, we have made a number of agreements with each other, which, as I know, are simply implemented. The transport sector is working hard and is committed to this. All kinds of agreements are being made on this subject. One green deal after another is closed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u34	Name one.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u35	There are already 155 green deals for the transport sector. What are we going to do to ensure that CO emissions are reduced? I hope that Mrs Van Tongeren will support this. I refer, for example, to the long lorries, the ecocombis. They reduce CO emissions by 10% to 15%. Europe, for example Germany, wants to protect its own trail. I expect Mrs Tongeren to make an effort in Europe to ensure that this sort of thing is dealt with. It is about innovations in the Dutch transport sector that are helping this sector forward and that are simply profiting. The transport sector in the Netherlands is doing very well and is on track.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u36	I hear Mrs Visser talking about a series of projects on the road that will be carried out in the coming years. That is of course very nice; I am happy with that too. It also identifies the bottlenecks that exist in the regions. We see that the trains are overcrowded there. In the written questions it has become known that the investments add up to 1 billion. We are only talking about what is absolutely necessary. That sounds like a lot of money, but it's a Blankenburg tunnel. Should all these regions now wait until after 2028 for the necessary investments to be made in the railways?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u37	Such a list has been given from the region in terms of road wishes and projects and congestion. So I know the wish list. We have the MIRT meeting, in which we deal with these specific issues. I therefore assume that Mrs Dik-Faber of the Christian Union is also in favour of extending the Infrastructure Fund. So far, I have only been called upon to support the expansion of the infrastructure fund. That's just good news.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u38	We are going to talk about it, but I have not yet received an answer to my question. Should the regions wait until after 2028? Does the VVD come up with a proposal to increase indeed, to find room in the budget and to ensure that people in the region no longer have to sit on overcrowded trains? Are we gonna put things in order there, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u39	Mrs Dik-Faber knows me as someone who looks at the space available for MIRT projects and at what is possible. We always look at what can be done with an open eye. But there's a money pot, and if there's no room, there's just choices to be made. We are discussing the various projects with the other groups. I can mention a number of other projects, not just in the region. I mention, for example, a large project around Schiphol. At Schiphol Airport, you're almost tossed off the platform. For example, there are a number of projects, including road projects and lock control projects. So I still know a number of wishes and demands from various quarters, things that people say are really necessary. As far as the VVD is concerned, this demonstrates the usefulness and necessity of investment in infrastructure. We need to re-examine whether there should be more money there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u40	On this point, I would like to support Mrs Visser of the VVD. The CDA certainly agrees with this and sees the difficult balance: there must be money, and where does it come from? As for the traffic jams, here's what I'm gonna do. The CDA has always said that we will be in more trouble as soon as the economy attracts. The KiM now makes that very clear. The Minister was also present at Pauw in connection with this problem. Maybe the CDA and the VVD can find each other in this. Does Mrs Visser not think this is a subject where we should actually send the Minister of I and M to Minister Dijsselbloem with the message: listen, we have a problem, and if we do not have more room for this, we will simply miss a lot of money in the future, we will lose money because of congestion? Can we hang out in there together?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u41	The motion tabled by Mr Harbers to the General Financial Reviews on behalf of the VVD is also intended for this purpose. The motion, which has been adopted in Chambers, is intended as a support to get this subject on the agenda. We will have to make choices in the end. After all, we do not have a money tree here where we can pick out some money. This indeed indicates that the traffic jams are increasing. It sounds crazy, but that's a good sign, because it means the economy is attracting. For this reason, the VVD has made a commitment to ensure, together with the PvdA, that the country is helped out of the crisis. For this, some measures have been needed which have been a little less fun, but now it is time to look at the future and make room for investment in the future possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u42	I support the VVD in that ambition. I am not very good at calculating this evening, but I do know that the VVD, in addition to getting money from the Infrastructure Fund, has increased the burden on the motorist by all these increases. On the one hand, Mrs Visser says that she is taking money out of the Infrastructure Fund and on the other, she also says that she is burdening the motorist even more heavily. When will the VVD stop treating the driver like a milk cow?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u43	Mr Madlener always knows how to characterize it. However, next year we will give back 5 billion in relief. The driver can also benefit from this. That is a very nice, but also deserved return to every Dutchman who has experienced the crisis in recent years and who has had to bleed for it. That starts with this first step in terms of relief.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u44	I don't know exactly how much billion has been cut by the VVD, but that was in the order of 10 to 20 billion. Now Mrs Visser comes with a tip, with a cigar out of her own box. However, I am referring specifically to the motorist. The VVD allows the driver to pay significantly more excise duties. When is the VVD going to compensate the driver?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u45	If you look at the Macro Economic Recognition and you see the state in which it has been indicated what has been bent over, especially through reforms, you see that there is the great profit of this cabinet. This has also been done with a number of parties in this Chamber. We have implemented a number of reforms in the area of care and housing. For that we have not been able to find the PVV on our side. By creating that space, we can now implement load relief. As far as we are concerned, we will continue to do so and the 8 million drivers in the Netherlands will eventually be able to benefit from it. With 5 billion, you're gonna get a long way. I was still at the beginning of my contribution. I was in the transport of goods and I mentioned a number of examples of things that could help. For example, the invitation to tender for the sea lock in IJmuiden has started. This is very important, also for the surrounding area around Amsterdam. But also the fact that Germany has finally started the third track, the extension of the Betuwe route, is an important starting point to support rail freight transport. Apart from various projects, some stations have been delivered. We also see that an important battle has been struck when it comes to making things easier, reducing regulatory pressure and speeding up procedures for citizens and businesses. That's the Environment Act. That sounds very boring, but it makes life a lot easier. I have already mentioned the example of road projects: from 15 years to 7 years, that is more than half shorter. These are important benefits, not only in terms of concrete projects, but also in terms of making life in the Netherlands a little easier for everyone. All these investments contribute to the position of the Netherlands in the World Economic Forum and on the list of the most competitive economies in the world. We now have the best motorways, the best port infrastructure and an airport that every party, whether Dubai or Turkey, is looking at with some jealousy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u46	D66, together with the VVD, is in favour of deregulation where it can be done. Then, of course, it is very important that you have sufficient enforcement capacity to ensure that legitimate interests are properly protected. In this context, what does the VVD think of the cuts in the Inspection Environment and Transport?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u47	I've seen the amendment. First of all, we need to look at what the enforcement authorities are doing, how they are doing their work and what they need to do. If Mrs Van Veldhoven's question is whether I support her amendment, I am very curious to hear what four FTE means. In principle, the questions are: how does a supervisor carry out his duties, do they have sufficient tools to perform that task properly, and which enforcement philosophy is being implemented and therefore implemented?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u48	My question was more general and did not deal specifically with the amendment, which I will be happy to explain later. The inspection is of increasing importance and has been given more and more tasks. I can make a list of five tasks that the inspection has received. From this point of view, the Fyra report showed that only one FTE was available at the time of the inspection in order to follow the entire journey. We are going to talk more about the Fyra, but in the context of all these matters I ask for a ruling from the VVD. Does Mrs Visser think that austerity is logical and obvious in the context of deregulation, which must be accompanied by enforcement, whereby we give the ILT all kinds of additional tasks?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u49	I'd like to go a little wider. We have also had a discussion about the cost and cost allocation of, for example, NVWA, its significance for competitiveness and the question of what such an inspection is monitoring. If Mrs Van Veldhoven wants to discuss the way in which we have regulated enforcement in the Netherlands, whether we have sufficient instruments and the philosophy on which that is based, but also how it is allocated, I am fine with that. The VVD, together with the PvdA, also tabled a motion concerning the NVWA. However, I do not want to automatically conclude from the fact that there are more tasks involved that so much must be added immediately. I think that is always a consideration: what tasks do you have, what do you need and how else can you organise enforcement? There are many possible ways to organise enforcement. There's a lot you can do with enforcement communication. But if you forbid anything, you have to be able to maintain it and you need people to do it, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u50	Something about which GroenLinks and the VVD are both enthusiastic is a number of innovations from Dutch soil. I believe that since 2011 I have been working with Mr Elias to get a certain aerospace technology developed at TU Delft and applied to trucks called SideWing from Ephicas in the Netherlands. There's one entrepreneur in Noord-Holland who drives it. The airplane wing lift is used to lift the trailer a bit. This results in 10% to 15% fuel savings. I have repeatedly asked the Minister to try to help mediate. There's no money to go, but it's on admission on the road. In the meantime, they have emigrated to Belgium. I think we're both sorry about that. There's another one of those. The factory is still in Castricum. Those are horizontal windmills...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u51	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u52	Whether the VVD actually wants to act more actively with GroenLinks, except in words, to ensure that these innovations that are of Dutch soil are also on the market in the Netherlands!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u53	I understand from Mrs Van Tongeren's contribution that Mr Elias was also in favour of this. Then I'm assuming it was a good proposal. Of course, all eyes are focused on making the Netherlands more innovative. If this kind of thing can help to strengthen our transport sector and our economy, we are, of course, looking at it. I'm very curious to see what's stopping this, but I'm sure you'll find out soon enough. Later on, I will come back to this in my contribution when I go into innovation and make things possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u54	I'm glad to hear that. If the Minister's answer is not such that we think that these two examples or Mrs Visser's example will be all right, we may be able to work together on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u55	Who knows! Mr. Chairman. I had stayed with the beautiful infrastructure in the Netherlands, not only physically, but also digitally. Eindhoven is not just the smartest region in the world. Together with all the various internet nodes we have in the Netherlands, this ensures that besides Schiphol, the Rotterdam harbour and Eindhoven as a brainport we have actually also received a digital mainport. We should be proud of that. You just have to cross the border, to Antwerp or Cologne, and you see what happens if you don't invest enough in it. You're certain you're going through all kinds of bumps because the roads aren't well maintained. Without transport everything stands still, is a winged expression in the transport sector. That's right, because 17 million Dutch people just need the roads, bike paths, tracks and waterways to be able to move around. A number of colleagues just mentioned the fact that the traffic figures became known last week. We see that the loss of travel time due to economic growth, in itself a good sign, can increase by as much as 45% compared to this moment in 2014. We do not think that is acceptable. We must therefore ensure that investments are made in infrastructure and, in particular, in the future. Look at new technological developments, such as self-driving cars, drones, sub-cars, longer trucks and larger container ships. You see more and more innovations in that sector itself that require adaptation, including of the current infrastructure. With that look you also have to look at what tasks are left, not only in management and maintenance, but also in replacement. The whole mobility chain is also changing. We have had an explicit discussion over the last period of time on taxi legislation. You can see that because of a number of new entrants such a whole chain can suddenly operate quite differently. So there are plenty of opportunities. "Smarter" isn't just about the future. "Smarter" also means removing small annoyances in the here and now with the motorist, with the traveler and with entrepreneurs. I have just mentioned the NVWA, to which my colleague Mrs De Boer and Mrs Jacobi of the PvdA have already drawn attention. In addition, I mention foreign registration numbers that run on the Dutch roads and cannot be fined. Those are all of those annoyances that we need to do something about. That is a small effort and, as far as we are concerned, a great comfort. We shall return to some of these points in our contribution. I was just talking about the future of mobility. In an interruption we also discussed the need to look at the extension and, as far as we are concerned, the extension of the Infrastructure Fund. It is not just about ensuring management and maintenance, because that is simply a core task of the government on all these modalities. It is also about new connections and especially about the accessibility of our mainports. In the Mobility Image, published last week, you can see that in the regions around Schiphol, around the Rotterdam harbour and around Eindhoven there are real bottlenecks. We want to keep these mainports accessible, both now and in the future. That is why we must look not only at the current situation and the current infrastructure, but also at future developments and the so-called 'intelligent transport systems'. Last weekend software was approved by the RDW and in Europe to allow a new model of the Tesla Model S to run autonomously. I don't know if you remember the video from 15 years ago asking people if they thought they were gonna use the cell phone. The minister knows that video. People said, no, absolutely not, I don't want to be accessible at all, what am I supposed to do with it? That was 15, 20 years ago. I look at all my colleagues now and I see that almost everyone is on his phone or his iPad. So it says something about how fast things are going. The self-driving car always seemed very far away, but the fact that the software has already been approved actually indicates that it is probably faster than we ourselves can understand. We don't know a lot of things. We know that a great deal needs to be done, especially in Europe, when it comes to standardising specifications, product requirements and also at national level, when it comes to our own legislation. In the Netherlands you have to sit at the wheel with two hands. The legislation is based on a driver, a physical person. If you continue to assume that, that self-driving car will not come into the Netherlands. There are also many issues. Who is liable in the event of an accident? Who owns the information? Is that the one getting in that car? Is that the car itself? Is that the software manufacturer? These are all kinds of issues that we do not yet know very much about, but as far as we are concerned, that is no reason not to start. Above all, we see the advantages, because it means enormous social cost savings by improving road safety, improving traffic flow and using travel time differently. People who are now dependent on others or on certain public transport can make much easier use of them. The Minister has said he wants to be a frontrunner in the Netherlands and thus also in Europe. It wants to do and pay attention to various pilot projects during the European Presidency next year. We agree with that, but we believe that more is needed, namely to tackle legislation and regulation and to actually tackle infrastructure now. We need to see what needs to be done by now. Soon we will have amended the legislation, but together we will find that the book soldier of Rijkswaterstaat has not yet been adapted and that all our invitations to tender we are currently working on, for example those important connections, are still in an old-fashioned jacket in accordance with the old book soldier of Rijkswaterstaat. These projects will be implemented in five to seven years' time. Who knows what the world's gonna look like? See if you can build in space for that in those tenders. Perhaps that also answers Mrs Van Tongeren's question. We already have innovations from Dutch soil, for example in the area of noise. I know that colleagues have already asked written questions about this. It's about a company that's developed something to fight noise that's already been tested in the east of the country and just meets. This entrepreneur has been working for about four years, but it doesn't fit in with the book soldier of Rijkswaterstaat and that's a shame. Because they're innovations. It can go faster. So can the Minister consider whether the current broad legislation of I and M can introduce "target legislation" instead of resource legislation? For this gentleman is not getting through because we have prescribed that there should be a sound screen, a sound wall in conjunction with silent asphalt, but this gentleman has no sound screen or sound barrier at all, which has stones that he puts in the way. So that doesn't fit in at all and doesn't fit in with that thinking. So my question is: take stock within the entire domain of I and M of whether you can deal with this kind of legislation already. But my question is also: go into the tenders and see if you're ready for those self-driving cars. Because with the matrix boards hanging over the road and often not being used, we are not going to make it with those self-driving cars. So my question to the Minister is: make sure that there are already a number of issues covered by the Procurement Act and see what infrastructure adjustments are already needed to prepare the Netherlands for the introduction of these self-driving cars or intelligent transport systems. At the moment, it is mainly about road-side adjustments. But smart roads also require smarter connections to the underlying road network. We keep track of traffic jams on the highways. Recently, traffic jams have also been tracked on the provincial roads. They're not avoiding each other at all. They're the same size. So there is a great deal we can do about these national roads here. Then you can drive on the A-roads, but then you stand still on the N-roads. We drew attention to this last year and now we are doing it again. Now we read that we are building an organic MIRT project and are going to do an MIRT project Lelystad real estate company. That is all wonderful, but we are missing an MIRT "how do we ensure that we can connect the underlying road network and the national network?'. No agreement is being reached on this at the moment. We have asked for this specifically once again. Our question to the Minister is: can this simply become an integral part of the MIRT and of the discussions with all regions? Can we make the agreement that if we invest in the A-roads, they will invest in the N-roads?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u56	I am glad that the VVD finally calls attention to the provincial roads. In addition to being unsafe, they are also important, but also file sensitive. But the problem is that the provinces do have to ask the driver, but they often don't spend at all on the roads. Doesn't Mrs Visser agree that the provinces, which so heavily burden the motorist with these increases, should spend that money exclusively on road construction?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u57	I'm not gonna play provincial states here. To determine what the money is spent on is the task of Provincial States and the provincial leaders. However, it has always been a target tax, intended to be spent on roads. The same applies to the BDU. It is about the more than 1.5 billion collected by the provinces, but also about the 2 billion that we transfer from the Empire to the provinces to invest in the O.V. I believe that we should combine these two things and agree on how this money is spent in terms of accessibility. But that needs to be put into practice where it belongs: with Provincial States. We have agreed in the Netherlands that the responsibilities lie there. Mr Madlener himself was in the city council. I think he always liked it himself that he could address his alderman on business and that that did not happen from this plenary room with 150 Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u58	It is the evening of the empty promises of the VVD, because it is right that the provinces should do more to make those provincial roads safer and better. The provinces collect money from the driver, but spend it on very different things. Mrs Visser says: yes, I think they should. But when I ask her if she is prepared to make a proposal, she says: no, they have to know it. Isn't that how we get nowhere?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u59	No, I told you I'm not gonna play provincial states here. The responsibility lies there. I assume the PVV will also act on this issue in its Provincial States. The VVD will also raise this issue on behalf of all its members. If they feel that the lectures do not spend enough money on this, they will have to set it up there. I'm not going to redo the work of 12 provinces that make their choice. If Mr Madlener says that there must be agreements on accessibility, I absolutely agree with that. I find it very strange that we levy a specific tax on roads and that we transfer another 2 billion from the Empire every year for transport to the provinces under the broad target benefit, but that we do not agree with each other who does what: if we invest in those A roads or in the rail network, what will you do? Then what agreements do we make? Butter on the fish. I'd rather have that in the MIRT than the things I just mentioned, like organic building. I love it all, but the MIRT isn't meant for that. I was talking about innovations in the automotive industry, but as far as we are concerned, this applies to the whole mobility chain. Mobility is becoming increasingly integrated. I already mentioned the example of the taxis that played last year. New entrants come with a new service that can tear the whole industry apart. The cooking of the house is reflected in the structure of the Passenger Transport Act: there is a part taxi, a part tram, a part bus and a part train. That's mostly self-sustaining. There's no intersections between them either. New share car providers, such as Car2Go, or service brokers such as Uber, are able to reach new target groups and offer new services. All this happens without government subsidies. You can do that by just listening to what the customer wants. That customer wants easy from A to B without fussing. As far as we are concerned, therefore, it is high time we looked at what else could be done in this traditional legislation. After all, we spend 2 billion a year through the BDU but also 2 billion on rail. So we spend 4 billion together and the traveller is still not satisfied. This is because the traveller is not always listened to and sometimes a bad product is delivered. Other parties are able to listen and deliver a good product. What good is it for us to have a Car2Go, or the Lease plans of this world or all kinds of other service providers doing something in the field of mobility or doing something about the use of people, come up with new ideas and take initiatives? As far as we're concerned, we're going to experiment more broadly than just taxi regulations. Within the whole of public transport legislation, we need to experiment with regulatory zones for public transport, so that the traveller actually has something to choose, we spend tax money effectively and we get a good product at a reasonable price. Does the Minister see possibilities for experimenting with regulatory zones for the DVD? So not only within the existing D but also widely outside, so that other parties are invited to fill in. Then I come to the mainports: Schiphol, Rotterdam and Brainport Eindhoven. Together they form a huge part of the earning model in the Netherlands. As far as we are concerned, we must continue to facilitate the accessibility of those three mainports. We received the letter about the accessibility of Schiphol. There are a number of measures such as crowd management; how do you control the flows on the station? As far as we're concerned, more is needed. How does the Minister see that? Schiphol has now become a traffic hub. It is not only a hub for aircraft but also for train passengers. Isn't it even more necessary in the shorter term to keep Schiphol accessible as a traffic hub? That's not the only thing. In the past period Schiphol and Air France-KLM have been widely discussed. We believe that the future of Schiphol should remain rosy. For this we see plenty of opportunities. The ball is also mainly at Schiphol Airport, but we also have concerns. The government has imposed a lot of rules over the past period. Is the Minister prepared to look at whether we have made headlines in the Netherlands on European legislation which puts Schiphol at a disadvantage in relation to other airports? I am not talking about the annual benchmark of SEO looking at safety costs and so on, but above all about environmental and safety legislation requirements that are not imposed on other European airports. Shouldn't we put Schiphol, and thus our earning model, at a disadvantage? Is the Minister prepared to look into that? In that light, I would like to briefly mention the letter we received today about Eindhoven Airport. In the Netherlands, for five years, we have made agreements with each other to do a number of things. All these appointments will be kept. Eindhoven Airport goes even further in. I am surprised that they say: these agreements are actually worthless; we are going to take a few things away from them. Any party here in the Chamber that has its mouth full of "the blue feeling" of Air France-KLM should also get that blue feeling. There is also a home carrier: Transavia, from the KLM Group. I find it impossible to limit the growth of Eindhoven Airport, even if we know that the growth of Schiphol Airport is going faster than expected. Two weeks ago, we had a discussion with Mr Alders, who clearly indicated that Lelystad Airport will probably be too late to absorb the growth of Schiphol Airport. How does the Minister rhyme with these two things? How can you see on the one hand that the growth of Schiphol is faster and on the other hand limit the growth of Eindhoven Airport? I have two specific questions concerning freight transport. We have received signals that the tendering procedure for the locks in Delden and Hengelo, both in Twente, is running but that there is great uncertainty about accessibility. Is that right? What measures are being taken there? I also ask to what extent the routing policy for dangerous substances in the Netherlands is still satisfactory, also in view of European legislation and regulations on this issue. I would briefly like to mention the ports of Rotterdam, but above all the rail freight transport that departs from there. My colleague Mrs De Boer has already drawn attention to the usage fee that rail transport operators have to pay. The recent ACM ruling also increases the burden on heavy goods carriers in particular. They will have a very hard time in the coming years. Is there room to see how these rail transport operators can achieve a good product? Mr Smaling said that he wanted freight transport not by road but by rail, for example. So maybe the SP can think along with this. We are considering an amendment or a motion on this point to meet the freighters in this regard. However, there may also be a need for legislation and regulation to achieve this. We'll ask the Minister if she's willing to look into that. In the context of'small effort, great pleasure' I have a number of specific points on which we would like to focus. I mention, among other things, the approach to traffic hufters. At the beginning of this spring, we presented an approach to this. The Minister of I and M and the Minister of Security and Justice would respond to this. We look forward to seeing what has been done about it. People pay their traffic ticket when their car's impounded. That seems to be the most effective measure by now. For example, we had proposed a number of such measures. We are curious about the progress of that approach. When can we see the interpretation of that? Another point is a motion on a fairer system of fines lodged at the VAO in June of this year and adopted: the heavier the offence, the higher the fine and the more often an offence has been committed, the higher the fine. What is the state of play here? I think I come up with the biggest annoyance of every motorist in the Netherlands: the A2. During the day you can drive 100 km/h. In the evening you can drive 130 km/h, until you suddenly miss a sign I think that's about at hectometer pole 42.0.That indicates that you can drive up to 100 km/h. A lot of people miss that sign. When can the matrix boards on that route just be handled, so that everyone knows what the maximum speed is allowed? It is also the moneymaker of the Netherlands when it comes to traffic fines. In the last year, there were 48 million. How do we ensure that this ambiguity is removed? But above all: how do we ensure that we can increase the speed on that trajectory?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u60	First we had the VVD that didn't think it was necessary to execute a judge's judgment that was enforceable in stock. Now we have the VVD that says: yes, you have to comply more or less with the laws in the Netherlands, but if there is an agreement about how fast you can drive, then suddenly you don't have to. Is that right? Or does the VVD with GroenLinks think that in principle all Dutch people simply have to comply with all laws?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u61	You just have to stick to speed regulations. If you don't stick to that, you're gonna get a traffic ticket. But we are in favour of clarity on the road. I mentioned an example. You drive there in the middle of the night. Somewhere on the side of the road there's something you can't see, because it's a sign. You drive past it in a flash and suddenly you can only go 100 km/h, when you haven't seen it at all. It is the largest highway in the Netherlands. It is the most beautiful highway in the Netherlands. A plane could land on the way to Schiphol. On the side are some green meadows...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u62	We're all getting emotional.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u63	...and you miss that sign and still think you're gonna get 130 kilometers an hour.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u64	Flash!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u65	Exactly. You'll find a nice letter from the CJIB in your mailbox. As far as we're concerned, that's insane.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u66	If the same clemency is given to people in the assistance, who sometimes miss a small letter at the bottom, I would still have some coulance, but that uncertainty is of course organized on the initiative of the VVD itself. That was the party that argued that there was a need to drive faster and that this had to be done with very small pieces at the same time. The judge's climate judgment is ignored, the climate problem is ignored, and now it is said that if people can't comply with the law, we have to change the law upwards. Much easier is simply putting your cruise control at 100 km/h and driving on: nothing fines. Doesn't the VVD just agree with GroenLinks? And isn't this actually a salami tactic to end up at... yeah, where does it end? 150 km/h on all roads in the Netherlands? Are we satisfied?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u67	Mrs Van Tongeren brings in all sorts of things, but let me keep it very clear. You solve it by just keeping it at 130 km/h. That is also the speed limit in the Netherlands. It's not 100 km/h. It's 130 km/h. I just said that this is about the most beautiful piece of highway in the Netherlands, and the widest section of highway in the Netherlands. It is high time we realized this there. I object to Mrs Van Tongeren's statement on climate, because we are on the right track. Mrs Van Tongeren pretends to be hell and damnation in the Netherlands, but we are about the richest country in the world, with the highest life expectancy in the whole world. We managed to do that by simply getting things in order here and continuing to look at all kinds of measures with healthy farmers' understanding. We've agreed on a good package for the climate. We'll find out. This is also apparent from all the calculations, including for 2030.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u68	Yesterday the VVD was on television, on the radio and in the newspapers and this morning it was also on television: best motorists, we are out in the coalition, we have arranged for you to drive 130 km/h on that part A2. I thought, as a CDA, that is very nice, because we have asked the Minister in writing to resolve this problem of uncertainty. And now I hear here that it's actually a question from the VVD to the Minister: "Dear Minister, how are you going to handle this?" So I ask Mrs Visser whether what she said this morning on television and in the newspapers is correct, namely that it is settled. Is the coalition out and we're gonna drive 100 miles an hour? Or does the coalition just agree that she's going to ask the minister how she's gonna take care of it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u69	I am a little surprised, because it is precisely because of the CDA that it could not be arranged until now. Indeed, Mr De Rouwe of the CDA tabled a motion in 2011 stating that it could not be done. There couldn't be any extra money to the speed increase. I therefore assume that the CDA, if the VVD submits a motion on this matter, will support it tomorrow. So that's really good news.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u70	I would like to talk about that, but first I would like to answer my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u71	I'll give you an answer to...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u72	No, that wasn't an answer to my question. It was a nice question back. I would also like to answer that, but I asked a question first. Yesterday and this morning the VVD said on television and radio and in the newspapers: best driver, we arranged it for you, you can drive 130 km/h, you can do it as soon as possible and we are going against it. Now the VVD asks the Minister: how are you going to handle that? So my question is: is the message in the newspaper and on television that the VVD has arranged it with the coalition for the motorist? Or is the question that Mrs Visser is now asking: how is the Minister going to deal with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u73	I have to laugh, because I'm used to you starting the debate with the Minister, putting some questions to the Minister and waiting for the Minister's answer. In second term, you'll file motions. That's how we agreed and we're gonna do it this way. The VVD has been very clear. I have just told Mrs Van Tongeren and Mr Van Helvert what we think about the A2; I have also said this to Mrs Van Tongeren and Mr Van Helvert. I have also mentioned the reason why it has not been possible to do so to date. That was just the CDA, with the motion De Rouwe from 2011. When I hear the CDA like that, she's gonna support our motion tomorrow to get that motion off the table. Because that's one of the reasons. Until 1 July of this year, we did not have the PAS legislation. That was one of the objections. So the other objection was that the CDA said no money should go. We have said: go see what can be done. One. Start with the matrix boards, because then every motorist knows what he's up to. Two. Go make sure it can just be arranged, both at night and during the day.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u74	The road is beautiful, but it would not have been without the cooperation of the municipalities. For example, the municipality of Stichtse Vecht has explicitly stated that it agrees to the broadening, but that it assumes the agreement that a maximum of 100 km/h is being driven. That meeting for the VVD isn't worth anything now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u75	The VVD has already made this point in the broadening of the A2. This is the highway where you should be able to drive 130 km/h. I know there's a lawsuit going on. Because of the separation of powers, I am not going to say anything about it. As far as we are concerned, the starting point is 130 km/h.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u76	This is where the VVD-group defies the agreements with the municipality. Moreover, the VVD Group cannot wait for the court ruling. What the VVD Group does, I do not think is useful twice. In any case, let us wait for the judge's ruling before we take any action. If we really use the adage "a deal is a deal," which the VVD wants to stand for, I would say: meet the municipality and let us stick to 100 km/h.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u77	I don't hear a question in this. If Mrs Dik-Faber wishes to stick to this, I would like to stress that I assume that she will also apply this principle to other dossiers, such as the one I mentioned about Eindhoven Airport. There are also agreements that parties subsequently fail to comply with. This is a ten-way highway: ten lanes, both sides clear. If you agree on a maximum speed, this is the highway on which you should be able to use it. That is what we have said from the beginning. As far as we're concerned, we're going to do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u78	I'll come back to the same point. It matters whether you make an appointment with drivers about a possible piece of work or whether your residents in certain municipalities give a guarantee that the infrastructure will only be there under certain conditions, but you will break that agreement once that infrastructure is there and the residents have no chance or choice anymore. How does the VVD feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u79	I have just indicated that in the wide area of the A2 there are mainly many meadows with a lot of cows on them. I have also said that the VVD has taken this view from the outset.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u80	That's too easy, isn't it? The VVD is one of the two partners supporting this cabinet. The cabinet has made an appointment with the directors and residents and has explicitly agreed to the conditions. The VVD therefore agreed to this, because it did not vote on it. Now I ask the spokesperson of the VVD if the VVD thinks it's real that you'll break that deal once the road's down and the residents literally can't move anymore. The VVD is now actively coming up with this plan and is actively calling on the cabinet to break that agreement and the residents are unable to move.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u81	I only name once more how many residents actually live on the side of that road.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u82	Of course, these appointments were made for a reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u83	Hoho! Mrs Visser has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u84	The VVD has taken this position from the outset. We do indeed live in a democracy in which a majority in the Chamber takes decisions that the VVD does not sometimes support. But if the VVD believes that the subject can be reappeared, it will do so at times. This is what we are doing on this subject, because we consider this to be an important subject. This was also the story in the context of "we can't always make it more fun, but easier" by simply being able to drive and indicate the speed more clearly. Let me give you the example of the A2. Maybe for several routes you can see what this means for the speed and whether the speed can be better displayed. In this context, I will also come to the peak and its opening up. I have to tell you a short anecdote, Mr President, because this kind of characterises the way the Netherlands looks at this. I was in my car with Mr Bolkestein. They let me drive him home. That's always a special pleasure. We were on the A10. Mr Bolkestein asked me at one point: Mrs Visser, can you drive here, because there is a line drawn here? I said, "Well, Mr Bolkestein, you may. He asked, "How do you know?" I said, there's a matrix board with a green thing on it and then it's okay. Not only because of Mr Bolkestein, who may be representative of the motorist in the Netherlands, but also because of the rains of fines, we can see that there is uncertainty about the lanes. Our question is how to give more form to that clarity. When you see that these peaks are used in this way, there is apparently also a need to be able to drive over those sometimes unexploited stretches of asphalt. So what are the options? And what does it mean in concrete terms if we wanted to make better use of the peaks, read: to make it a regular lane? What does that mean, especially for the busiest routes? And what does that mean for finances and laws and regulations? What are you thinking? However, I would like to make another point which has already been raised several times in the context of written questions and the Autoletter II. It states explicitly that in the case of air quality, consideration will be given to the problem of heavier diesels, under the condition that municipalities no longer implement environmental zones, because they are too heavy a burden and are also an inappropriate means. It is in slightly different terms, but that is what we think it is all about in the Autoletter II. We have made these environmental zones possible by means of traffic regulations. Our question to the Minister is whether we should not change the traffic regulations now if we are to change the mrb in 2019 in a different way. In this way we can remove these strange environmental zones, which I don't think anyone understands either; look at Utrecht. What is the timetable for achieving this and withdrawing the traffic regulations at this point? I'd like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u85	Mrs Visser has a quick appearance and appearance, but why does everything have to be done quickly? Does the VVD have an upper limit on all that flying, all that driving, all that transportation? From what upper limit to the quality of life and the level of prosperity does she say: that's okay, then we just have to make sure that we read a sensible book every now and then and have a little fun with each other, and the translation of growth is no longer in the always wanting from A to B?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u86	People just want to go from A to B. One wants to take his child to a sports club, the other because he may have to do so for his work or wants to do so that depends on the person and another wants to go on vacation or walk in the forest. People just want to go from A to B because they like it. Perhaps Mr Smaling also remembers those beautiful carpool strips of former Minister Maij-Weggen. The idea was that people could be steered in the way they fill in their mobility. Those strips have always been there, but have never been used. We must learn from this and as a government do not steer people's mobility needs, because people ultimately make the decision what is easy for them. One day they get in the car, the other on the train and the third day they do a combination. So make that possible and don't send in. It is exactly as Mr Smaling says: it also makes life a bit fun if you can just make that choice. Preferably this should be made as easy as possible, because there are no weird closed peaks, by clear signage and because you can just drive on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u87	But isn't Mrs Visser also worried that with 7 billion, and later with 9 billion, we are going to hit a wall very hard, just to hold on to the analogy with mobility? From that point of view, shouldn't you align your policy entirely with what "people want"? In this case, do we not also have a job in this Chamber to guide people to be less mobile, otherwise mobile or more sustainable? Isn't it time to scratch your ears again or the free-for-all...........................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u88	I come from the Zaan region, the oldest industrial area in Western Europe. Once the VOC placed all its trade there, which was processed in the mills and then in the factories. So I grew up living and working side by side. The Verkades and Honigs of this world are all from there. This shows that over the last hundreds of years we Dutch people have always been very well able to think carefully and to combine living and working well with each other and thus make our money. This has made us one of the most prosperous countries in the world. We also have the highest life expectancy in the world. What I draw from this is that we have always been able to find solutions. We've always been able to be even smarter than the rest of the world. We have always been able to find practical solutions to practical problems. That's what you can keep the VVD to: practical solutions, not based on gut feelings, but on concrete measures that just work. I refer, for example, to source policy when it comes to the environment; that simply works. Then let's keep doing that and get on with it. It's paying off now, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u89	I also hear Mrs Visser say a few things about the environmental zones. In the municipality of Utrecht her fellow party members are on the local government. They are grateful to use the environmental zones to keep the city clean. I now hear that the VVD wants to get rid of the environmental zones, while gratefully using them at local level. How does the VVD see this? Does it want to limit the means that local government can use in this respect?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u90	The funny thing about the environmental zone in Utrecht is that it is not really necessary when it comes to the overrun. If you enter the environmental zone, enter it properly, my first comment would be. However, the environmental area is not necessary in view of the standards we have set and the exceedances thereof. We say it's a nice piece of symbolic politics. If you agree with each other that you're taking care of it nationally in a different way, this is also literally stated in the car letter, so you don't need those unnecessary environmental zones anymore. Then we say, "Remove them." We should not then allow two things to exist side by side.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u91	I note that your Utrecht colleagues feel very differently about this. They are grateful to use it, precisely because of the points you just mentioned, to keep the city clean. It's a shame you don't listen to your local drivers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u92	I do listen very carefully to my VVD department there. Frankly, it is not that enthusiastic, but it has been said that we are in a coalition, of which we are one of the parties. You know the feeling in a coalition: "you give some and you take some." That's how it works in Utrecht. This is one of the points the VVD in Utrecht was not undividedly happy with. But in the framework of the coalition agreement, it has been said that we have to accept this with each other, if the VVD can only get back a few other things.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u93	Mr. Chairman. We are informed via various media, such as telephone and iPad, that the new Secretary of State for Infrastructure and the Environment would be Mrs Dijksma. My first question to the Minister is: is that correct? Can you confirm that? If so, is Mrs Dijksma prepared to take part, of course on the basis of talent, interest, political colour and background, in the balanced completion of the portfolios in the Ministry? Then I get to the point of the traffic jams. The VVD rightly made a point of that. We briefly had an interrupting debate on it. We are very concerned about that. The last few years have been beneficial on the traffic front, because the traffic jams have decreased. The policy of previous Cabinets paid off. Now that the economy is attracting and this cabinet has invested much less in asphalt, we see that congestion is increasing again. Traffic jams have increased especially in the Randstad, but also around Eindhoven and Barneveld the problems are huge. The A1, the connection between Amsterdam and Berlin, but also the A67, the connection between the Rijnmond and the Roergebied, are completely blocked. That is something that needs to be resolved and our question is what the Minister will do about it. We have already discussed this in the debate with Mrs Visser. Even though they are not part of the Minister's portfolio, I will mention a number of things. Tomorrow we will have the Minister's answer. Even if it's not her wallet, I'll ask for a few things in general. We are concerned about a number of issues and we would like to ask about the progress that has been made. How are we going to fill that out with a new Secretary of State? For example, we are very concerned about KLM and its cooperation with Air France. The problems in Paris persist and it seems that KLM has a partner who is actually becoming a liability. In addition, the fierce competition in European transport by low cost carriers and by carriers from the Gulf States. The question is what is the government's plan in this matter? Who's in charge here? Was that the Secretary of State? Was that the Minister of Finance? What's the plan B if it keeps going really bad with Air France? In the end, it will be at the expense of KLM's network, while we heard at the hearing how important KLM's network is. Once it's broken, it won't come back. What's the plan B? Does the Minister agree with me that this is slowly becoming a chefsache and that the Prime Minister should get involved? The Secretary of State has promised a rail summit for Maastricht. What's the state of play with that? How's it coming?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u94	I hear Mr Van Helvert asking a lot of questions to the Minister, but I am so curious what the CDA thinks. What does the CDA want to do in the field of Air France-KLM?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u95	We have had a debate on this, but thank you for asking, because I would like to make the CDA position clear on this. The CDA believes that KLM is very important for Schiphol and that Schiphol is very essential for the economy of the Netherlands. The cabinet must therefore take everything out of the closet to ensure that the network that KLM has built in the past many years is not lost. If that is lost, it will never come back. The cabinet has to do everything in its power. As early as February, we suggested buying shares in the holding company. Will the government consider that? We called it a golden share at the time. At first, there was no response from the cabinet. In June, the Finance Minister said: no, we are not going to do that. Last month he said, "Maybe we'll do it." That same day he said, "We're not gonna do it." Then it became: only in case of emergency. We have made our suggestion. The Minister of Finance has a great deal of difficulty in maintaining a single line. We are very curious about what the cabinet ultimately thinks about this. That is why we are putting the question here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u96	I'm trying to make myself clear. Mr Van Helvert himself points out the importance of network quality. That's something you don't regulate with shares, from the State or from another party. That's what the company does by looking at where customers are and what that means. I'm really trying to understand what the CDA wants on this file. When the state guarantees came to an end and the time had come to consider whether the Dutch State should retain shares, then Minister Eurlings let that go. When the CDA was in control, when the CDA took part in a cabinet, they let it go. Now it's being brought back, but it's a missed opportunity. Mr Van Helvert now advocates something that the CDA could have arranged. Besides, he's talking about something you don't deal with stock either. The company itself makes decisions about its network.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u97	Those are two questions, which I would like to answer both. When Minister Eurlings established the renewal at the time, there was nothing left. It was over. It wasn't a question of extending or expanding, it was just over. Then negotiations started and this point was removed. Of course, we should have dragged in at first instance when making the first appointment. But then the proportions were different. KLM was in very, very heavy weather back then. Air France was the big party with money. That, of course, is not a balanced start. When the appointments were over, what was in it was taken out. Of course, we would have preferred it to include what we are actually missing. The Secretary of State has gone to Paris and has made arrangements with Mr De Juniac of the holding company. According to the Secretary of State, these were very positive agreements. KLM's network would not suffer from Air France's damage. We told the Secretary of State that it was a good thing that she made this agreement, but that we also wanted to see it in writing. Unfortunately, the Secretary of State didn't want to do that at the time. So it's a bit of a question of what's true of those answers. As for the second question, I can say that you do not do that with shares. However, you can see that more and more tasks are shifting from KLM from Amstelveen to Paris. I have also asked written questions about this. I asked the Secretary of State to consult and say that no more Amstelveen tasks could be transferred to Paris. Yet we still see that going on. Last week, for example, a Dutchman stepped out of the supervisory board and was replaced by a Frenchman, while the Secretary of State promised it would be the last time. So we will have to increase our influence in the holding company. Will the Cabinet consider that? If it doesn't, I'll ask the Cabinet what the plan is. We're also worried about ProRail. Of course we will have another debate on this, but things are continuing and I wonder how we will continue to do so in the meantime. We are very concerned about the role of the shareholder. In the debate, the Secretary of State said that she had an oral hearing on important reports. When we asked about it, it got stuck. We were given the documents and even then it appeared that the Secretary of State had not been present at all. We do not think that this is a very strong case, especially since I also asked in the same debate whether she would do it again next time. The Secretary of State started the debate with a lecture on self-reflection and she replied to my question that she would do it again next time. That sounds very dangerous to me. My question to the Minister is therefore whether the Ministry takes on the role of shareholder in ProRail more actively. We are also very concerned about the regional rail network. We asked the Secretary of State about the agreements between the regions and the Minister. Because there are really large deficits at ProRail, money is being transported from the relatively small network of the regional rail network for maintenance of the main rail network, while the Secretary of State promised that these two would be separate. And yet she's doing it now. We have asked for a letter and she says that consultation with the provinces is going very well and that they are coming out, but the provinces have told us that things are not going well. They did get statements from the Secretary of State, but it wasn't really a conversation. It is precisely in the place where the government has to contribute so little in the region of the region that most of the money is paid by the region itself that the Secretary of State removes the amount of money that is very important for the region. This will put pressure on cross-border connections. For example, we are talking about connections from Schiphol to Cologne or from Rotterdam to Düsseldorf. They are at risk because of the relatively small amount the Secretary of State wants to remove, saying that the consultation is going well, which is not the case. We are also concerned about the Dutch Railways. We have asked questions about this too. The Secretary of State used to push himself around there sometimes. We were concerned about this, because in Overijssel, for example, she made agreements with the province on regional rail, while she also made agreements with the NS on rail there. Those appointments collide, those two get in a fight, and then the cabinet leaned back when there was a problem. How are we going to do this and how are we going to ensure that regional transport does not suffer from the attitude of the Dutch Railways on this point, especially since the director of the Dutch Railways has communicated very clearly that they will focus on the main rail network? I totally agree with him. We have also said that the main rail network and the regional network should be properly separated, but we would also like to see this in the attitude of the Dutch Railways. Perhaps the Ministry can play a role in this. I would like to say a few words about the ILT. In my first motion as a member of this Chamber last November, I asked for an external test of the role of the ILT. That was because of the accident in Borne. I said the ILT had relatively little self-critical ability. I wanted to take an extra look at that to make sure things couldn't go wrong in other places. I'm sorry coalition didn't want to know about that back then. The Minister is ultimately responsible for the ILT, but the Secretary of State also replied that she did not want to do so. It turns out, as we have seen today, that it is necessary. That is why I am asking the Minister whether the Ministry would perhaps like to come back to the opinion on this motion, also in a broader sense, because it does not have to be aimed at Borne alone. Perhaps the Minister could therefore take Mr Leenders' question on the role of ILT in passenger rights and rejecting objections. How can we, in other words, put the ILT in a bit of working mode and prevent it from simply removing all requests from passengers? If we think that these passenger rights are too broad, then that has also been a question to the Secretary of State, then perhaps we should reduce them. I would like to talk about that, because I can also imagine. However, as long as these rights are in place, we will have to maintain them. If there will be new rights, we will, of course, have to do so, and that means that the ILT must do something. After what I've heard about the ILT again today, I'm not sure it'll work itself out. We have also talked with the Secretary of State about the transport of dangerous substances and how we will deal with them in the coming financial year. More and more dangerous substances go on the Brabant route and through large cities such as Breda, Tilburg, Eindhoven and Venlo. How are we gonna solve that problem? What about the negotiations, for example on Four Horses in Venlo? This is a very dangerous situation and I would like to hear what the state of affairs and what I can expect from the Ministry in the coming financial year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u98	Mr. Chairman. In December, governments and for the first time companies and civil society organisations will jointly try to reach new agreements on a global reduction in greenhouse gas emissions at the Paris Climate Summit. This is an important event, especially for our country. We are at the sea and we know what its impact can be on our dikes and our future generations. In this house, we have often talked about the Ministry's commitment to the climate summit. The CDA Group is grateful to the Secretary of State for her unbridled commitment to reaching an agreement in Paris. The CDA has also always advocated the role of business in this climate summit, and the Secretary of State has really done something about it. We wish I and M a great deal of wisdom in the last few weeks in the run-up to the summit. For many people, climate change is an elusive thing. Therefore, the CDA considers it all the more important to continue working on support, close to people and local. You need to involve the residents and give them a negotiating perspective on what they can work towards together. The CDA therefore wants action to be supported from the bottom up and not just imposed from above. Local climate agendas support municipalities from the government. As far as the CDA is concerned, the Ministry can put that a little bit more firmly. The CDA supports the idea of exchanging model projects, but of course we are not there yet. How does the Minister intend to keep the sailing local together with the inhabitants? How does the Minister, in consultation with Home Affairs and the VNG, intend to better involve the municipalities in the local climate agenda? Can the Minister also clarify what obstacles remain for municipalities to go forward with sustainability projects? How does she intend to take it one step further? Climate change can also be countered by investing more in renewable energy. One of the ways to do that is the construction of windmills, as my colleague from the SP mentioned. At the same time, it raises a great deal of resistance, because lusts and burdens are often not distributed fairly. Can the Ministry of I and M also make its knowledge and skills for involving residents in, for example, the construction of roads available to the colleagues of Economic Affairs? I ask this because it often goes wrong with the national coordination scheme for the realization of wind on land. To what extent has the Ministry of Economic Affairs so far used the knowledge of I and M? We would also like to receive an update from the Minister on the implementation of the motion on microplastics, asking for agreements with the cosmetics industry to reduce the use of microplastics to zero by 2017. What progress has been made in this regard? We would like to hear the latest state of affairs. Finally, I would like to say a few words. Could the Minister also state the latest state of play with regard to the emission standards for diesel cars, which have also been discussed in the EU this week? I'm very worried about that. This should be the time to move forward, but we hear other noises. I would like to receive a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u99	Mr. Chairman. Politics is a hard job. I'm standing here today with a double feeling. Mrs. Mansveld has resigned. Personally, I've always been able to work well with her and I've always appreciated her commitment and commitment. But that is also the way it can be in politics. The environment from which you come, your region or the thickness of your wallet should not determine a good life and a clean environment. The PvdA therefore wants a healthy environment for everyone. The Americans have brushed the soot out of Europe's eyes by unveiling fraud with car emissions. The emissions turned out to be a paper fairy tale and not a reality. In the aftermath of this scandal, many wonder how clean our air really is. That is not surprising either: cleaner air and a clean environment have a direct effect on people's well-being and health. Improvements have been made in recent years, but we are not yet there. Exposure to particulate matter continues to lead to premature mortality and shortening of life. The RIVM estimated the number of life years lost between 100,000 and 200,000 in 2011. So air quality is really about something. It directly affects people's health. The NSL programme, the Air Quality National Cooperation Programme, runs until 2017. The Labour Party has indicated earlier that we would like to see a follow-up plan for air quality. The Secretary of State has also indicated that he will come forward with a new plan. Can the Minister state the state of play regarding the successor to the NSL? The RIVM is responsible, among other things, for measuring and researching and reporting on air quality. Does the Minister agree with us that RIVM's measuring capacity is too limited? Does she also see that we should have room for improvement in this? The Labour Party would like to see the national network of measurement maintained even after the end of the NSL. Then I want to talk about the two-stroke scooter. We have previously tabled a motion on incentives.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u100	Before jumping on the scooter, Mrs Van Tongeren would like to ask a question about the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u101	The Chamber was told by the rulers that all diesel vehicles in the Netherlands were also simply tested on the road. We've got a whole bunch of reports. Does Mrs Cegerek of the PvdA with GroenLinks think that these reports do not show that all these different diesels have been tested on the road? Diesel Euro 5 has only been tested to check the measuring equipment. Euro 6 has been tested, but there may also have been 3 and 4 of everything going on. Does the PvdA also share the need to clarify which diesel cars have actually been tested on the road in the Netherlands and which we only have a calculated possible amount of emissions?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u102	We have had this discussion with each other before. I don't want to repeat it. We want a reliable test and figures that reflect the actual measurements, not what we have experienced with the Volkswagen scandal. Sorry, I'm a little tired...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u103	We all are.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u104	But I agree with you that this must certainly be about all diesel cars.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u105	I'm very happy about that. My second question is this. I heard Mrs Cegerek say that the measuring points that are now being used to measure the calculations afterwards, with a number of 85 measuring points, which are rarely in crowded places, do not really give a true picture of whether the Netherlands currently exceeds all kinds of standards. Does the PvdA think with GroenLinks that if you want to do this, you should increase the number of measurement points so that RIVM can really give a true picture of the air quality in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u106	In the first instance, it is important for us to maintain the current measurement points. We want to see what is possible with the follow-up to the NSL programme and what is possible with further expansion. I just asked you the same thing. Then I'll come to the two-stroke scooters. We have asked for incentives for business, but also for individuals to encourage them to turn in their polluting scooter for a clean, electric scooter. Vamil and MIA have been used for this purpose. According to the Secretary of State, this would also be within the NSL programmes. Now it appears that more than a million of these polluting scooters are driving around in the Netherlands. How many companies and individuals have used this scheme? I'm getting to the circular economy. The focus on the circular economy is increasing. I am seeing more and more projects that make the transition to a circular economy possible. Companies and regions in the Netherlands show that it is possible to deal with raw materials more consciously and efficiently. Circular Friesland is a very good example of this. They turn residual waste into waste containers; a brakeade product in the region. Auping, the mattresses manufacturer, strives for 100% circular entrepreneurship. In my region, in Gelderland, Circulus started the project 100-100-100: 100 households have to live waste-free for 100 days. I'm taking part in that myself. After all, a better environment begins with yourself. That also applies here. My waste is mainly diapers at the moment, but otherwise I have as little residual waste as possible. So it does help. Waste-free regions and more'remade in Holland' products are possible if we cooperate more and have good, ambitious policies on them. We have good hopes for a new package from Europe in December. It is also good for the Netherlands to look at an overarching programme for circular economy. How does the Minister intend to come up with an overarching programme? Several studies show that circular entrepreneurship also creates new jobs. The Ellen MacArthur Foundation indicates that circular entrepreneurship can yield 1.8 million in practice. Research by Rabobank shows that circular entrepreneurship can create 80,000 jobs. So it's definitely gonna pay off. However, we must remain aware of the fact that raw materials are scarce and that we cannot draw endlessly from nature. Efficient use of raw materials and the minimal production of waste is good for the environment, for future generations and for our wallet. The European Commission refers to studies that show that better use of resources from 17% to 24% can reduce the need for materials by 2030. European business could save 600 billion. However, practice shows that there is a need for reliable information on raw material flows. The waste from one plant can serve as a raw material for the other. However, there is no knowledge base from which you can obtain such information. How does the Minister view the creation of a knowledge base for raw material flows, allowing business to move faster in circular business? I've seen a resource efficiency centre in Germany. Perhaps it is good to look at this German example and to make contact with it. I hope the Minister will respond to this. The government agreement specifically states that the government is aiming for a circular economy and that it wants to stimulate the market for sustainable raw materials and the reuse of scarce materials. The government can play an exemplary role in this. The government buys 60 billion in a sustainable way. We could allocate a percentage, specifically for the circular economy. If 10% were allocated, 6 billion could be spent on circular procurement. How does the Minister view the promotion of circular purchases with a fixed percentage?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u107	Mr. Chairman. I'll start with the electric car. In the summer of 1898, the Champion wrote: "It is to be expected that the means of transport of the future will be moved mainly by electric driving force." After the heyday at the beginning of the 20th century, the electric car lost ground in the period before the Second World War: the range is too small and the speed is too low because of the heavy batteries at that time. Also in this house a long time ago we talked about the electric car. For example, in 1938, during a period when the electric car lost its influence, there was a debate on electric transport and its tax treatment. In 1989 this Chamber even paid a working visit to California. Our predecessors were impressed: "In the automotive field, the research and development of electric cars is better: vans are spectacular." Since then the electric car has been in the elevator, and now the prediction of the Champion from 1898 seems to be true. How will the Minister speed up and facilitate this development? Next to the electric car, the self-driving car also has the future. Automatically driven vehicles, the so-called cars, are entering. It all started with self parking, but now we are ready that the Tesla has an autopilot option, with all the advantages and disadvantages of that. The PvdA believes in this progress, but how do we ensure a safe application of it? That is why we want infra-investment to be tested over the next few years for the impact they have on self-student vehicles. Is the line on the roads recognizable for the autopilot? Can cars communicate with the infrastructure? Such questions are as relevant for the new ride as the quality of the asphalt and the signage. Can the Minister indicate what regulations need to be adapted in order to have a well-functioning, self-driving fleet in the Netherlands in 20 years' time? The situation now seems to arise that the responsibility for the driver's vehicle equipment lies with the technique, but formally with the driver. How does the Minister view this situation? How can responsible use of self-driving cars be stimulated? A smart infrastructure is also needed. The internet of things.................................................................................................................... Too often motorists stand in front of a red traffic light when there is no traffic. Everyone's been through that. That could be smarter. If cars are able to communicate with each other and stop lights with cars and other infrastructure, traffic is more flexible, congestion is reduced and safety is improved. The matrix boards on the highway, which are operated by hand and can only indicate the speed, are old-fashioned. Besides, they're vulnerable to malfunctions. For example, last weekend long traffic jams arose when Rijkswaterstaat failed to expand the red crosses above the road when the work was completed. I think that can all be smarter, especially if you consider that all data from cars and smartphones can be received, processed and transmitted. For example, drivers can get up-to-date information about route, speed and delay. We welcome the Minister's ideas in this area. I would now like to return to the traditional arrangements.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u108	Just before the traditional subjects come up, Mrs Van Tongeren comes up with a question. I heard Mr Hoogland say something about the New Driving. Now the New Driving is something I also argue for in any budget treatment, because if you have a well-insulated house, but the windows open wide in winter, you still have hugely high heating costs. I don't know how economical they have become, but at least the cars have improved since 1970. If you do not use them properly, they are also not more economical and cleaner in emissions. Does the PvdA group share with me that The New Driving, a good control technique to get the cleanest and most economical out of your car, is important?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u109	Oh, yeah. Anecdotal: I could use that course myself and, I think, many others too. If there's anything in it, it's worth looking at. I assume that Mrs Van Tongeren will come up with a proposal on that point. We'll look into it then.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u110	In fact, one of the agreements that has been repeated in previous budgets is that at least all the drivers of the ministries and anyone who drives public cars would set a good example with Het Nieuwe Rijden. Is the PvdA Group aware of this? Would she like to pay attention to this together with GroenLinks, for example in the example of sustainable use and purchasing?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u111	Again anecdotal: I was recently caught up on the Erasmus Bridge very antisocially by one of the courier services of the Empire. I thought at the time, at least this isn't The New Driving. So there's still room for improvement. I think that these agreements are very good, but it is mainly up to the Minister for the National Service to implement them further. However, we can always ask the Minister if she also instructs her own driver to give effect to Het Nieuwe Rijden. A little more broadly, I think that Mrs Van Tongeren is right in saying that it is good to see if you can set a good example in the Empire at least. All the support for that! I come to the traditional industry. Agitated by extensive sophisticated fraud by Volkswagen, it is time to really measure the emissions of cars and not to use simulated tests where everything seems greener and cleaner than it is. However, we are still not there. The removal of soot filters or tinkering to the car for more power or better sound can also be accompanied by more pollution. Is the Minister prepared to consider whether an emission measurement can be included? Is it possible to tax, ban and test an increase in pollution? At least 100,000 cars are involved in the Netherlands. It's a commercial business over the back of clean air for everyone. Companies make money by causing damage to the environment. Can the Minister explain how she will take action against this? Today we were told that standards are being relaxed in Brussels. We would like to hear the Minister's views on this. The apk, the general periodic inspection, should be adapted to smart cars in addition to emissions. Can the Minister examine whether the points considered in the package form the basis for safe transport and whether they need to be adapted to the electric and self-driving and self-driving cars? I would like to go to the mileage and the National Road Traffic Agency, the second-hand car market. Buy a car from Germany and the warranty is: many accessories, much cheaper and probably many more kilometers than it says on the counter. However, at import inspection, the Rijksdienst voor het Wegverkeringen reports the reading position on the mileage counter on the form, according to all the protocols, while the RDW often knows that the car has run more, as the service can read the car through a computer. As far as the PvdA is concerned, the National Road Traffic Authority will indicate on the car documents that the mileage in such a case is illogical.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. By putting the real mileage on paper, people are prevented from being tricked when buying a foreign car. Is the Minister prepared to take care of this? I still have two separate points, namely Schiphol and the bike. Schiphol is an important hub for travelers. A substantial investment is needed to make the Schiphol station future-proof. The resources are limited. Is the Minister prepared to make the station future-proof with innovative funding? We end up on the bike. Although old, the bike certainly has a future. In the coming years, the use of bicycles, in particular new electric bicycles, will continue to increase. People cycle more and often longer. That is a positive development. The bike contributes to accessibility, especially in cities where car accessibility is under pressure. Moreover, the bike is good for health and the living environment. They're all open doors, but it's important. We therefore welcome the fact that the Empire embraces the ambition for this form of transport and the agenda of the Fietsersbond in this area. After all, an agenda to connect to bicycle highways nodes deserves active support.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u112	I heard very nice words from the Labour Party about making mobility more sustainable. That appeals to me very much. A lot of questions were asked to the Minister. What does the Labour Party itself intend to do? For example, are we going to encourage tax incentives for more partial cars? Are we going to encourage a green deal with the taxi companies and choose greening? Are these options open to discussion by the Labour Party?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u113	All options are negotiable. It's just hard to talk about taxation here. This has already been done in the context of the General Financial Reviews. We have proposed not only to extend the MIRT but also to see how the second-hand market of private electric cars can be stimulated. In the field of environment and infra, you need to look at new ways of making cars that drive themselves more effective, reducing their consumption. So in that area there are all kinds of things possible. I do not have the ready-made solution for the sustainability of the fleet. No one has any. Otherwise, it would have been arranged.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u114	Perhaps I can help Mr Hoogland a little. Yesterday, the Chamber adopted a motion, co-signed by its party colleague, on a sustainable mobility agreement, but all this still needs to be filled in. There are several options, including green deals with taxi companies, but also options within taxation, which we can also include underneath so that we are now really going to take steps together. Does the Labour Party have that intention?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u115	The only thing I can see is that I have missed something that has already been arranged and which I am now being asked to take care of. If I understand Mrs Dikk correctly, that is settled, but then I go to her information; I do not know. We voted on this yesterday, and it seems that this proposal has been adopted. This calls for further clarification and meeting at another time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u116	I have listened with pleasure to both Mr Hoogland and Mrs Cegerek. I have heard many meaningful lyrics about slow traffic, electric driving and environmental issues, but what is the story of the PvdA story that Mrs Visser has kept here? Where is the overlap which gives the Labour Party and the VVD a somewhat coherent ideological traffic and environmental story?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u117	If something doesn't exist, it's a coherent PvdA-VVD environmental story. Well, we're moving forward. Last year the SP blamed me for my story being too much of a management story. That's not going to happen right now, so it's never gonna be good or it's gonna be bad. I kept a PvdA story here. That is what Mr Smaling should expect from me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u118	Last year's stuff is deep, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u119	Yeah, he was so close.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u120	No, thank you again for your story, but it seems to me that you're looking in a coalition for what binds you. Otherwise, you're not gonna have to deal with it. And that coalition was forged very quickly. That's why I'm asking. Or Mr Hoogland says: Mrs Visser will tell you what she wants and I will keep my story. Or he'll say, "The Minister's gonna have to cook soup." If you've decided to join a coalition together, it's going to take a lot of amazement, which has been going on for three years, I think the question of where the connection is a legitimate one.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u121	That's a fair question. I can answer that, too. On this portfolio it is part of the progress and deployment of technological development to shape mobility more effectively in the Netherlands. There is an agreement, especially on electric transport, the self-driving car and smart infra. I see a number of similarities there. I think Mr Smaling is satisfied with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u122	Looks like it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u123	I assume that we are going to see the respective distinctive VVD and PvdA stories in the vote on the motions and that it will not only be on input, but we will see that later. I had another question for Mr Hoogland about the budget of the Infrastructure Fund, particularly the rail section. If we look at the deficits observed and the reservations made, we can see that the entire free space from the Infrastructure Fund is being used. Does that concern Mr Hoogland?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u124	We still have to debate this at the Infrastructure Fund, but of course I am concerned about that. On the one hand you want to cover the management, maintenance and replacement, but on the other hand you also want to do something new. Who doesn't want to open a new station and build a new road? That is always a bit more attractive than management and maintenance. But we must also be careful not to focus too much on this and neglect the others, because it is important that we retain the good infrastructure we have in the Netherlands both in the field of road traffic and in the field of water and road construction. This also requires investments in management and maintenance, which are sometimes less visible or attractive. However, I share the analysis that attention is needed for this. Eleven proposals have also been made to improve business. We still have to discuss this with each other. The maintenance on the track could be done during the day to improve business. That could be a painful measure. There's more like that. I therefore propose that we debate this; I am not ruling anything out in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u125	I welcome Mr Hoogland's last comment. If he doesn't rule anything out, for example, you could also consider whether you can carry out certain projects more soberly, leaving you money to avoid having to confront the traveller during the day with all kinds of delays. I see Mr Hoogland nodding. For example, you can ask yourself whether the short seconds of travel time that one expects to realize with the project at the Bak van Amelisweerd, outweighs all the hours of delay that working during the day. Is Mr Hoogland open to exploring such options?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u126	That's too bad. There are a few things that can't be done, and that's what Mrs Van Veldhoven calls. So I can only say one thing: no. She's asking me to look broad, and I'm asking her to do the same. She's just mentioning the project where that can't be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u127	Mr President,......................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u128	No, we're moving on. I call Mr Madlener of the Freedom Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u129	Mr. Chairman. We've all had an exciting day. The absence of Mrs Mansveld affects this committee deeply, as I see in this Chamber. Speaking texts have been adapted and the subject of "ov and trains" has actually disappeared. That leaves very little of the input of some of the speakers. Let me start by returning to the Fyra report. I congratulate the Fyra Committee, because despite being an expensive investigation, it has carried out a thorough investigation with firm conclusions. The Dutch travellers have been totally abandoned by successive Cabinets and billions of taxpayers' money have been wasted. It's been a mess on the trail for years, and the question is, of course, what's going to change. The Secretary of State responsible for this mess has now resigned, but the question is what the cabinet and its successor are going to do to really clean up this mess. The broom must be reversed by the organisation and the split of NS and ProRail as well as the remote placement of that organisation. The Fyra report shows mercilessly that the unclear organisation has led to unsustainable problems in terms of responsibilities on the track. These problems did not start with Mrs Mansveld at all, but with PvdA Minister Netelenbos. We will soon have to have a comprehensive debate on the problems of railways and the Fyra survey, but it is clear to us that we cannot continue on this basis. It promises to be a severe winter with lots of snow. I therefore hold my heart for the travellers who will be back on cold platforms. Those who have been in the cold for years are the Dutch drivers. The Dutch drivers pay almost the highest price in the world for their daily transport. No less than 20 billion euros per year the Dutch motorist pays to the State. This excludes the extremely high Dutch parking costs in many cities and the absurd amount of fines that almost automatically fall on the doormat. Today we are discussing the budget of Infrastructure and Environment for 2016, and this cabinet continues to milk the motorist. The irresponsible cuts in road construction by the Kunduz coalition simply leave the cabinet in place, so that the money to invest extra in much needed roads, safety and flowing through 2028 has been completely spent. There is no more financial room for additional roads, while in the meantime money is being wasted on the umpteenth post-tax from Brussels. You know what they do with it in Brussels: building roads in Spain, with Dutch money. That's crazy. In order not to fall completely into a gloomy story, I will also mention a few points of light. This minister deserves it. For example, there is the insight that building and broadening roads really helps against traffic jams. For years we have heard from left-wing parties, GroenLinks and SP, that more roads would only create more congestion. This false image of reality has now finally been referred to the trash. Broader roads and more roads really make for better flow and less congestion, and therefore economic growth, less annoyance and less unnecessary fuel consumption. We may even have time to read a book, as Mr Smaling wishes us to do. I would like to mention a small point of light. Thanks to the PVV, the A4 Central Delfland will soon be opened. This is worth a party for the Rotterdam region. The A13 will be greatly relieved. This 8 kilometer road is finally there, after 40 years of strutting and opposition by left-wing parties. Soon we will all see how extremely important that piece of road is to keep employees and entrepreneurs in the Netherlands prosperous. I should also like to mention the Minister's decision to build the A13/A16 and the Blankenburg tunnel. At least I thought it was a bright spot when I read the newspaper this morning: 130 km/h on the A2. However, the PvdA did not say anything about this and the VVD just asked a question about it. I'm starting to doubt if it's true. I was happy. I also think that a lot of motorists were happy that this unclear situation, that fine trap, at the A2 would finally be resolved. The question now is whether this is being achieved by the coalition parties. I hope so. They can count on our support. I also hope for support from the Chamber. I come to matters that we are not satisfied with. First of all, I call the programme Better Benutten. The Court of Auditors has already made a strong assessment of the immeasurable results. We prefer to invest the money in real asphalt. Stop the mischief of the provincial pennies. I have already said in an interrupting debate with the VVD that the provinces should not, of course, spend the money they take from the drivers on anything other than roads. There are many accidents on these provincial roads. They're not in order. There are also many traffic jams on provincial roads. Something really needs to be done about that. We want it to be spent on that. The PVV wants lower car taxes. Why do Dutch people have to pay so much more for their car than Flemings or Germans? The PVV wants tax cuts, like the VVD that always promises, also for the motorist. In addition, I ask the Minister to stop the much too narrow peaks. I'll take the A15 as an example. I drive over that every day. If you drive on that, you drive between the trucks. There is now a peak strip of 2.5 meters wide. That's how narrow the lanes are: one meter narrower than normal lanes. Then you drive between a truck and a guardrail. When it blows a little, those trucks always go a little from left to right. It's terrifying. It's dangerous. I think it's a really wrong decision. I would simply ask that these peaks be upgraded to safe lanes, because those peaks are dangerous. The PVV doesn't like that less money goes to road safety. Older people stay active longer in traffic, fortunately. That is sometimes an annoyance, but yes, we are also happy that they can still shop and visit people. So we should not be too annoyed by that. The number of accidents sometimes increases, including the number of accidents on the bike. So we want road safety to be a little higher on the agenda. Dangerous roads and intersections must be tackled. We want a lot of technical measures to improve this security, including in the province. The electric bike is a great success, we can say. But now there is another helm duty for electric bicycles with stair support up to 40 km/h. If you can ride a bike for 40 km/h if you're kicking hard on a race bike, can you get that?It's really weird that you have to wear a helmet for that, isn't it? We are of course for a bicycle helmet that is safe but not as an obligation. Let's stop patronizing him. People can really decide whether they want to wear a helmet on the bike or not. And they don't want such a big integral helmet for a motorcycle. I would like the Minister to clarify this. The threat of that helmet duty creates uncertainty. You don't even have the guts to buy a bike like that anymore because you're gonna be stuck with all kinds of rules. So I'd like to get some clarity from the Minister. I'll come up with something else. If someone wants to temporarily suspend his license plate because he only wants to drive in his nice second sports car in the summer, he has to pay €73 to €120 by means of a very complicated calculation on the website of the Rijksdienst voor het Wegverkeringen. €73 to €120 to temporarily suspend your license plate: that's absurd, isn't it? It's a simple administrative act. That can't cost so much money, can it? I'd like to get a reaction to this. I shall leave it at that, because I am out of speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u130	That's too bad. But I still see Mr Smaling coming forward. Does that mean you want to interrupt, Mr. Smaling? That's the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u131	I would like to place another interruption on Mr Madlener's car. Yesterday, perhaps Mr Madlener did not read it, because only rail passengers read it; so there is not much chance that he saw this very clearly that more asphalt will lead to more car use. It's like feeding a tobacco addict cigarettes. So what is Mr Madlener's vision of the future? Is that still wider roads, until there are 17 million of us in the car all day? Or is he also open to other ways of seducing people to use the car at a different time, to switch to another means of transport or to work at home if the work permits? Those are just as well opportunities to live pleasantly without everyone having to get in the car?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u132	I always wonder who the SP hates. Is it the driver who has to go to work? Is it the motorist who visits his grandmother on Sundays or goes to the zoo for a day? Who wants to bully the SP out of the car? I'm glad that if they can afford it, people can still choose to get in the car and do something useful. It's up to the people themselves to judge that, isn't it? We are seeing traffic jams increasing again, so I would say, dear SP, stand up for the affordability of the car. There are more and more people who can't even afford a car anymore. All of that the SP thinks is a good idea. We don't want to bully people out of the car. The PVV wants to keep cars affordable, because the car is just a very useful means of transport that almost everyone likes to use. It is amazing that Dutch people have to pay far more for this than the people in all those countries around us, who also get billions through Brussels, if it is the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u133	I wouldn't charge the SP for that link with Brussels. But it's such a shame. It is a clear but also quite simple world view that everyone should be able to get in that car. I don't care about people who want to visit family on weekends. If they want to get the car, that's fine. However, it is a question of bottlenecks. These are mainly the traffic jams related to work-related transport. You can always facilitate this by making roads even wider and building even more asphalt until the whole country is one large asphalt mass. That's what I'm thinking: if that's not necessary, I'd rather not. I'd love to see the PVV see that, too. This doesn't make sense to people who drive because they need the car. However, it is an argument against continuing the asphalting of this land infinitely.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u134	I keep hearing that there's no need for people to get in the car, but people can judge for themselves whether they're taking the car or not. It costs enough money. People are not going to spend a lot of money at the gas station for fun because the SP made the gasoline so expensive. People can really decide for themselves whether to take the car or not. That's what people do with their brains. Sometimes I admit it, you do it for fun, but what's against it? Let people enjoy it. Why don't you stop picking on that car or see it as a moving wallet that you can pull out? It's just people who go to work and want to get home in the evening on time. When those people are in traffic for an hour, they don't have time at all for that book Mr. Smaling wants so badly that they read it. So take the traffic jams; hopefully we can go back to reading books.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u135	I like that one!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u136	In any case, Mr Madlener's expression of the face does not fit the words "for fun" in the car. My question is therefore how much the burden on the car driver fell between 2010 and 2012, when the PVV was in the cabinet. How much have the burdens been reduced by then? How much have the costs been reduced? How many fewer fines have been written? Can Mr Madlener make that clear? I gotta tell you, I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u137	Unfortunately, I have to remain guilty of that answer as well. I don't know that by heart either, honestly. However, when I read the PVV election programme, it makes me very happy. Then I see that excise duties are going to fall dramatically. Luckily, we're good at the polls, so who knows? If there are any more left aside from Mrs Mansveld, we can let the citizen speak for once. Then we'll get an election. Wait for it. I'd like to look forward to that moment. Then I'm sure it's gonna look a lot better for the driver.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u138	This reminds me a bit of the Counterparty, even though it was on television before my time. My next question, which is not about the past, is: what proposals do you have now to reduce the burden on motorists? How are you going to arrange for the people you look so angry at when you tell them to get in the car for fun to pay less? And where are you gonna get that money? Because that question is always one of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u139	We have a neatly calculated electoral programme and we have put forward several proposals for a good reduction of this retarded excise duty in the Netherlands. You know what is happening in the border regions thanks to the increases in excise duties from the PvdA. People drive miles to Germany to get gas there. So the tax cut is number one. Let me give you another example: VAT. You have greatly increased VAT, but they also pay motorists. In fact, even excise duty is subject to VAT. Let me not mention the huge parking costs in cities where the PvdA is in charge.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u140	Thank you. Thank you for coming. You were just talking about lights. I have another bright spot for you: Feyenoord beat Ajax by 1-0. So your day is good again, Mr Madlener. We are going to listen to Mrs Van Veldhoven and then I will suspend for a few minutes so that we can stretch our legs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u141	Mr. Chairman. Let me start with a few comments made by previous speakers on the results of the Fyra survey. It contains serious conclusions, but we will have a debate on them at another time. I too would like to pay tribute here to the responsibility that former Secretary of State Mansveld has assumed, not only for her own role, but also for those of some of her predecessors. I would also like to add a personal note: I will really miss her drive in cooperation on sustainability. Mr President, I come to the budget debate. My group would appreciate it if we could involve a new Secretary of State in dealing with this budget. I understand from the media that a new Secretary of State might have been found soon, but I will not ask for confirmation. Can the Minister consider the possibility of involving the new Secretary of State in the reply? I now turn to the budget. The cabinet called the Millions note a "party budget." But let's stay sober, because when I look at this budget, I don't get into a party mood. The cabinet uses the infrastructure fund as a large grabbelton: 16 million for the implementation of the Environment Act and 39 million for the rising costs of basic ICT. Even the VVD mentioned a number of posts. Can the Minister explain why she does those controls in the closet when there are already such shortages? Last year, the Court of Auditors found a deficit of 700 million to 2020 on the future maintenance of roads. This year there is a deficit of 400 million on waterways and 475 million on railways. But according to the cabinet, there's nothing to worry about. Through an unclear ball-ball policy, money is being pushed. Holes are sealed with holes. What do you have left? Right, a hole! The possible consequence of this is that passengers will soon be in the cold due to emergency repairs or additional work. How is the cabinet going to structurally close the gaps, but without passing the bill to future Cabinets? In spite of some of the solutions mentioned by Mrs Visser, there is still a shortage and there is simply no extra money in this festive budget to resolve this. Is the Minister prepared to consider whether the widening in Amelisweerd could be implemented more soberly in order to close this gap? So much has now been removed from the coalition agreement, so why is this not being looked at rationally? Now I'm going into the cuts at the ILT. The Fyra survey says that more money is needed at the ILT. However, the cabinet removes jobs, while at the same time giving the inspection service proper tasks. That is why it was quite clear to my group before the conclusions of the Fyra survey became known today, again, that we are talking about the need for more capacity at the ILT at another time. I don't care about four, five or three FTEs. But if we invest a lot in Rijkswaterstaat, maybe a part of it can go to the ILT, because it gets a lot of tasks. I'd like to get a reaction to this. My next point is air quality. I have recently heard the VVD say: the air in the Netherlands is cleaner than ever. Yeah, I guess so. But "cleaner" doesn't mean "clean." Check with the million people in the Netherlands who are asthmatic, have lung problems or other respiratory problems. That is why D66 does not want the cabinet to completely scrap the national money for air quality management. The cabinet must remain involved in bottlenecks. I also like to get a reaction to this. Then I come to sustainable shopping. After long urging from among others D66 and a number of other parties from this Chamber, the cabinet has made a new plan for sustainable procurement. That is full of fine words and intentions, but what is the cabinet really going to do? And who's gonna pay for that? Because there are a lot of opportunities. With 60 billion purchasing volumes, you can give innovative, green companies a huge boost, but knowledge and experience are often lacking among buyers or their political bosses. However, this is not a question of extra rules, it is really just a matter of doing so. That's why D66 has produced a small green paper on sustainable shopping, with inspiring practical examples of our directors at local level. I'd love to offer this to the Cabinet. I would also like to make a proposal to the cabinet: provide municipalities and provinces with the possibility of having a sustainable purchasing check, to see where unused opportunities lie. This is good for municipalities, good for innovative companies and good for the environment. Then there's the raw materials agreement. Sectors such as agriculture and chemistry can handle each other's product and residual flows much smarter on a large scale. If we get valuable chemicals from sugar beet or animal feed before we put them in the feed tank, it will be better for animals and we will replace oil and gas with natural raw materials. That's gonna create new jobs. We can also use innovative ideas and companies to achieve this. There are, of course, a number of initiatives already underway, but D66 calls on the Cabinet to reach a broad agreement on raw materials in order to achieve an ambitious and integrated programme with sustainable initiatives, such as the Green Deals and various instruments being developed. I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u142	We'll take your notebook. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u143	Please. Let me conclude with the biggest challenge we face: the management of climate change. The Secretary of State has so far committed himself fully to the climate negotiations, but will not be able to conclude them. How do we make sure all this effort doesn't fall into a hole? Is the Minister actively taking over this dossier directly from her Secretary of State, as negotiations are reaching a final stage? The Netherlands cannot afford an empty chair in these climate negotiations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u144	Mrs van Veldhoven, probably because of her speaking time, mentioned a lot of subjects in a very short time. So I thought I'd wait and see her story first. I would now like to comment in particular on the following. I am not always on the train in Metro, and that is why I do not always read it, as I say to Mr Smaling, I read that D66 wants a lot of money. I know it's not your favorite project, the A27. The scope was: less money to roads and more to public transport. I also hear Mrs van Veldhoven say that we need to look with common sense at what is most effective. I'd like to ask her two questions. Look at the relationship between what the government contributes and what people do themselves. The driver pays 87% and the government pays 13% per kilometer. The train traveller pays 33%, and the government pays 66%. For the tram and bus traveller, this ratio is even worse: the traveler pays 25% and the government pays 75%. So that relationship is already very skewed. We spend 4 billion together on the O.V. The traveller gets a bad product for that. It surprises me that D66 offers a solution to allow even less to go to the motorist who already gets so little.... and even more to the...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u145	That's quite a story, but it comes down to the following. We now have a gap and the question is: are we going to go with Mrs Visser and transfer it to the next Cabinets, or are we going to solve it now? If we're going to solve it now, we shouldn't dogmatically stick to some point in the coalition agreement. Fortunately, this coalition has already abandoned the coalition agreement on many points, but be prepared to see if it can be more sober on this point. I know the VVD as a party that always says: if it can be more sober, we have to do it. A project worth 400 million more expensive is being carried out for a number of seconds. That does not seem to me to be the project to spend 400 million, if we consider that this could be the case for hours of delay for rail passengers, because work would have to be done during the day to close the gap. That consideration applies here. The deficit is 475 million. The Secretary of State and Secretary of State say we're making a $400 million reservation. Let that be exactly the amount that we could save on that one project. It's just a very pragmatic solution. I'm just asking the VVD not to be dogmatic. And then about the costs: of course, it emits much less CO. So far, this has not been reflected in the price. It might be interesting to include that in the credit transfers next time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u146	I can recommend Mrs Van Veldhoven the beautiful book The price of a trip from TU Delft, which appears once every ten years. There are all kinds of costs involved. The driver still pays more than enough in relation to what he gets back. It is a good story, but we also had this discussion on the roads last year. At that time I did not hear Mrs Van Veldhoven's pragmatism. I did not hear from her then either: let us postpone an O.V. project. It rightly points out the issue of management and maintenance. That is what I have said in my contribution. As far as I am concerned, it shows that more money is needed for infrastructure. What I find so regrettable, however, is that D66, which always presents itself as an innovative party, says: we are not really prepared to look at it; just scrap a road project. We spend 4 billion on 1 million travellers. We should say: they deserve a better product. That money could be spent differently...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u147	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u148	...and you could take care of things in a different way. I think it is very special of a party like D66 to place the account unilaterally with the motorist.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u149	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u150	However, I would like to ask Mrs Van Veldhoven whether she is prepared to propose that the legislation on public health should be abolished, with rules-free zones...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u151	Mrs. Van Veldhoven.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u152	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. D66 is very willing to look into improving public transport. We think it is important that there is at least enough money available for maintenance. We are now faced with a gap of at least 475 million, because there are a number of other risks that have not been taken into account. I am looking, unlike Mrs Visser, for concrete solutions within this cabinet period. Mrs Visser is more interested on behalf of the VVD to see if we can extend the infrastructure fund. That means bringing forward even more money and making even more money for the future. I do not think that is a good management of the money at the moment, unless Mrs Visser now says: I exclude that. That's what I'd like to hear. I'm just looking for concrete, pragmatic solutions. I have nothing against roads. They are very important, but if we now have a hole, we must find a solution. I don't want to be dogmatic in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u153	We're gonna take a five-minute break. Then we can stretch our legs and also the Minister can move a little. Then we will listen to Mrs Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u154	Mrs Van Veldhoven asked me a question and I would like to reply to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u155	Mrs van Veldhoven is not supposed to ask you questions, because then it will be 6 a.m. tomorrow morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u156	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to say that it is a little strange to have the debate on the infrastructure and the environment budget without the Secretary of State. I would like to thank her from this place for her unbridled commitment and for the pleasant cooperation we have always had. Today we look back at ten years of Fyra fiasco, but how do we look back at this time in ten years' time? The question will then be what we have done today to preserve Creation. On the eve of the 21st UN Climate Conference, all signals are red. The Pope warns in his encyclical Laudato Si against plundering our common home. Can we say in ten years' time that this cabinet has brought about a change in Dutch climate policy? That takes more than that. The Netherlands was once a frontrunner, but now scores the worst of the 28 EU Member States on climate targets. The debate on the Urgenda case has taken place and has not taken the Netherlands any further, except that we now know for sure that the cabinet will appeal. Is the cabinet credible if it wants to encourage other countries to join ambitious climate targets? The Netherlands is in his shirt. In our country, I see fantastic initiatives. People are organising themselves in energy cooperatives and the collaborative economy is gradually accelerating. The platform Groene Kerken, which I visited recently, is becoming more and more church societies. I think it is important for the government to encourage all these initiatives or at least to give them room. But then the local government. Climate policy also requires a local approach. Not half of the municipalities have carried out a climate risk analysis. Many risks, such as heat and drought, are poorly represented by municipalities, let alone by measures against them. What is the Minister going to do to better connect municipalities to the National Adaptation Strategy, which will be published in 2016? I come to the circular economy. The credo is: from waste to raw material. Well, that sounds good, but we're still a long way from getting there and there are still opportunities. I'm gonna walk by a few points. The Netherlands will lead the European discussions on the circular economy package in 2016. I call on the Cabinet to be ambitious in this. What is the concrete commitment? Last year, the former Secretary of State said he wanted to look at tightening up the Ecodesign Directive. Does the cabinet come forward with a proposal during the presidency? What will the cabinet itself do to give circular thinking a central place in socially responsible purchasing? The Christian Union calls for the introduction of a raw materials performance ladder for procurement and for concrete targets, for example 20% circular procurement in 2020 and 75% of purchases at a higher level of sustainability than the minimum requirements. How is the cabinet going to pay for its plans for socially responsible purchases? I see less money for this in the budget, while the ambitions are higher. I have tabled an amendment on this point. Today, I want to break a lance again for textile recycling. Now separate collected textile ends that cannot be worn again, as a cleaning cloth or mattress filling. Of course, that's recycling, but it's not high-quality. Now there is a machine that can sort fibers, so that really new textiles can be made. Is the Minister prepared to discuss with interested parties, including market players, the possibilities of getting a pilot plant off the ground? Of course, it fits in with the fact that the government as a client requires a percentage of recycled fibres in new business clothes. That's sustainable shopping. There's still a world to be won at stations. Only 12% of the waste is now separated from the waste. The Christian Union wants travellers at all intercity stations to be able to dispose of their bottles, cans and newspapers in separate bins. Is the Minister prepared to reimburse social companies such as NS from the Waste Fund, just as municipalities receive separate collection fees? In addition to recycling, repair also deserves more attention. This can be done by low VAT on return products. Now this can only be done for bicycles and shoes, for example, but not for electronics. Is the Minister prepared to argue within Europe for the amendment of the VAT Directive? In Belgium, second-hand products fall under the low VAT rate. As far as we are concerned, this should also apply in the Netherlands. I come to the sustainability of mobility. Mobility policy must be more than infrastructure building. It's also about clean air and safe roads. Today, I read in the newspaper that the Netherlands has held a manly stand in Europe, but that the decision has been taken that diesel cars will be allowed to emit twice as much in 2017. Is that correct and what does that mean for our Air Quality National Cooperation Programme? Safe roads are of course very important, but I see that investments are falling. Why does the cabinet choose to do that? Why is there nothing in the budget about paying for the use of the road, while the cabinet has promised to participate in research from 2016 onwards? Yesterday, with the support of, among other things, my group, the Chamber adopted a motion on a sustainable mobility agreement. We now expect the Minister to make room for this in the budget. For example, let them come up with an ambitious plan for fast cycling routes, now that the e-bikes are on the rise, and let them make a green deal to make sub-cars electric. The sustainable fuel vision must now really be translated. Where in the budget is the financial contribution to a fuel fund? The cabinet had agreed to investigate this. A lot of concrete is used in building roads. Strong CO reduction is possible thanks to the application of green concrete. Will the Minister, through Rijkswaterstaat, also stimulate this innovation in procurement? The government can also set a good example and stop buying diesel vehicles on a large scale. Does the Minister think that's a good idea? Then I come to the budgets for infrastructure. There are hundreds of millions of infrastructure shortages in the coming years. Now, of course, we can extend the deadline for the infrastructure fund, but then we will only get extra money after 2028. Cheaper maintenance is an option, but the rack is already out. In the meantime, especially at the track stoppers are piling up. The large stations are more expensive, there is concrete rot at the HSL and so on. How's the Minister gonna fix this? Travellers suffer from this and the track is really at the edge of the capacity. With minor interventions, ahead of ERTMS, improvements are certainly possible, but there will have to be some budget available. That is why the Christian Union has tabled an amendment to shift 100 million between roads and rail. I have also tabled an amendment to encourage the shift from road to inland waterway and shortsea. A pilot project is very successful. This is good for the environment and good against traffic jams. Today I was at Inspiration Table on Climate Change, organized by the Council of Churches and the Old Catholic Church in the Netherlands. There were representatives of churches, civil society organisations, business, media, youth and politics. A few things I got with that. In well reformed tradition I do so in three points. The first point is that we live in abundance. We have all the knowledge and resources to combat climate change. Then why don't we do it or at least not enough? This is where leadership is needed. The second point is not to interfere with yesterday's ideas with the dreams of future generations. We are too attached to existing systems and interests, so that a necessary change of course cannot be used. The third point is that we should not focus too much on technology, but should also make room for ethics. It's also about dividing scarcity, about a different way of looking at our economy. Climate change affects the poorest parts of the world. Finally, I note that the Pope in Laudato Si does not call for an ecological conversion for nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u157	Well, perfect at eight minutes, to the second accurate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u158	Mr. Chairman. The resignation of Secretary of State Mansveld not only means for my group the departure of an involved and motivated ruler. We also miss her here tonight in this budget debate. As others have said, she is an enjoyable woman with an unbridled commitment to subjects that are also close to the heart of GroenLinks. Today was the presentation of the Fyra report. There will be a separate debate on this. On this subject, I would like to ask the Minister whether it is her ambition to get the traveller quickly and in a clean and affordable way between the two capitals of neighbouring countries and, if so, how she can fulfil this ambition as quickly as possible. I believe that we agree from the left to the right that this was and should still be the purpose of the exercise. After the Fyra, I'll handle another F-word, the finances. Other spokesmen have also already called the Ministry "the Treasury's Office." How can you build new things when you have holes in maintenance in three places? Furthermore, GroenLinks has great difficulty with the policy choice to bleed regional rail transport for this purpose. It is not for nothing that I say regularly that a small reduction in the number of rail passengers means an increase on the road that immediately leads to traffic jams, unless we are temporarily helped by an economic recession. So far, this has proved to be the only way to reduce the number of congestion kilometres. And we shouldn't want that. By the way, is the austerity on the ILT being reversed? GroenLinks has always wanted a minister responsible for climate change. At least tonight we have that minister. We also hope that this will remain so and that it will not go back to the Secretary of State. The climate must really be chefsache at the ministry; it is the greatest challenge for this generation. This is the last generation that can really do something about it. Our children will be the first generation that will only be able to cope largely with the consequences. The Minister often points to Minister Kamp for having concluded the energy agreement. She says that's gonna make it all okay. Minister Kamp is indeed committed to energy generation, but transport is, of course, also an important part of the energy agreement. Contrary to what Mrs Visser thinks, the agreements in the energy agreement have hardly been implemented in concrete terms with transport measures. The green deals are beautiful and beautiful and should certainly be implemented, but they do not add up to the agreed amounts of energy saving and clean energy in the Netherlands. I would like an answer from the Minister to the question of how we are going to do the mobility part. A colleague mentioned the motion adopted by GroenLinks and the PvdA to conclude a mobility agreement. That could be a good idea for the Minister to tackle it in a strong way. Does the Minister agree? I now come to the unfortunate plan of the VVD, a plan that is more or less supported by the PvdA. It is not quite clear to me whether the PvdA really supports it, but I hope she does not support the plan to increase speed on the A2. It is the reversed world: first you promise the neighbors that the road will be wider but in return the agreement will be made that there will never be more than 100 km/h, but then 130 km/h will be allowed on small pieces. And that is another reason to raise your hands to heaven and say: the drivers don't understand it and that's why it's only supposed to be 130 km/h." This is really a fraction that doesn't care about climate change, air quality and the sick people who live there. This is confirmed by many sides, including the RIVM. The air has indeed become cleaner since 1970. I would like to hear from the Minister that this has been achieved in a much smaller part of the road in the last 25 years. I would also like to know how the Minister intends to proceed with the national programme to further improve our air quality. The amount of lost weeks of life, months of life, can surely not be something that the government accepts under the guise: that is the price of transport? Then the price of the trip. I did a quick search with an employee, but we can't find an update in 2014. If Mrs Visser does, the whole Chamber will be happy to receive it. This study would show that the cost of the car to the driver is, for the first time, higher than all social costs combined. In the 2004 version it was exactly the other way around. Then all the social costs of the car, climate accidents, lost working days and lost years of life were even higher. But of course I am open to additional information from the VVD. I'm here to talk about dieselgate. I have already mentioned this in an interruption debate: I am very curious to see where I have missed in the reports that diesel 3, 4 and 5 have actually been tested on the road in the Netherlands and how this is incorporated into the figures. If we then only have to do it with calculations at the front, I would like to see, like the PvdA, that at least there are enough measuring points to really measure that. That will have to be in crowded places and not just in the places where the stations are now. Then I come to the European Commission's decision to set the standard, which is currently 80 mg/km, to 160; colleagues have already spoken about it. How does the Minister feel about this? Even after 2021, it has been decided to still have the standard at 120 mg. The Minister has always said that resource policy is going to help us and that this will make the Netherlands cleaner. So we would not have to do anything about the speed limits. Now, however, we see that the car industry has won in the source policy. Will the Minister now look at, for example, the increased promotion of electric driving? Is she going to do something about maximum speeds and, my continuing hobby, the New Driving? If you don't use your well-insulated home as it is meant to be, you don't get the lower energy costs; if you don't use modern cars in such a way that you get a maximum amount of comfort with a minimum amount of fuel, you don't get it either. On this point, I would like to ask how the Minister, including in the context of sustainable procurement, looks at the tender at Volkswagen by the police. The big contract with the police has been tendered to Pon. In addition, some things may have gone wrong. Pon is likely to be excluded in the future as a supplier to the police. In the short term there may be no replacement for it; a lot of cars would be taken away. Is the Minister prepared to look again at whether this is something we would not want in the context of sustainable procurement? Volkswagen has admitted fraud. That is sufficient legal reason to revise that tender. When examining the budget for Economic Affairs, GroenLinks argued in favour of it and a motion was adopted to see how municipalities with their own innovative solutions can help fight climate change. Does the Minister see an opportunity and a role for himself to assist in this? Cities use 70% of all energy. In Europe, it is estimated that 72% of the population lives in cities, and cities are particularly vulnerable and sensitive to drought, heat stress and extreme rainfall. This concerns both transport and water dossier and spatial planning. There are 25 Dutch municipalities that have joined the European initiative Mayors against climate change, a covenant of mayors, mayors. According to GroenLinks, some support from the Ministry could accelerate this. Municipalities run into all kinds of rules, for example when setting up environmental zones, finding the right road signs, placing loading posts, speed limitation measures or the desire to do something about scooter transport. This is also the case with the realisation of solar panels in schools. I know that this minister is not responsible for this. Such a package would enable municipalities to make a real contribution to the energy agreement, and thus also to comply with the judge's ruling. I can see that I have a few minutes left. I would like to begin by asking a question about aviation. We have debated a great deal about whether we in the Netherlands, besides existing airports, really need an airport in Maastricht, Twente and Eelde and whether there is room for that. I think that the current figures, and how these airports are doing, show that in the Netherlands there is indeed no room for that. I'd like to hear from the Minister how she looks at that. In the context of clean air, energy consumption and climate change, I ask the Minister whether she now shares with GroenLinks that much encouragement of domestic flights should at least not be the solution to get these airports to work. GroenLinks would like the Netherlands to take the lead in the Europe-wide taxation of fuels for international shipping and air transport. That file's jammed. With our CO2 emissions, we pretend there is no air traffic or international shipping. We do not count these figures, but our climate is, of course, burdened. Reference is made to IMO and ICAO, but there is no progress. Is this Minister prepared to take the lead in any case in Europe, so that you get a level playing field between rail transport and aviation, making, for example, a good network of high-speed trains a real alternative to consumers? GroenLinks is a warm supporter of the latter. Fast transport by train is so much more expensive because of excise duties and taxes that you do not have in aviation. As a result, fair competition is not possible. I conclude with the wish that this Minister with GroenLinks will see that climate change is the challenge for our generation, and therefore for this government too, and that this cannot be reduced to a small box with one secretary or just a reference to the energy agreement. Let us go to Paris together with this minister and help to conclude a fantastic agreement there, so that the generations after us will be proud of what the Netherlands has also contributed to combating climate change.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u159	Mr. Chairman. I wholeheartedly support those colleagues who have expressed their feelings, appreciation and respect for the resignation of the Secretary of State, Mrs Mansveld. In any case, it is good to bear in mind a passionate ruler who went for the cause for which she stood. I would like to divide my contribution into four points. First of all, I want to look at the infrastructure fund, then I want to zoom in on inland waterways, then I go into the water and the Environment Act and finally I have a small afterburner that concerns the ammonia and livestock regime. The infrastructure fund cracks in its joints. The General Court has noted that budget deficits may occur in the coming years for the construction and maintenance of main roads and main roads. The same goes for the railroad. Deferring investments or maintenance and cash slides were needed to get a close picture. This makes a heavy change for the future. For roads, waterways and rail there is hardly any free investment space available until 2028. At the same time, traffic congestion is increasing as a result of economic growth, there are still many unsafe situations and the number of road accidents is still high. Last but not least, for more sustainable freight and passenger transport, a better rail and shipping network is needed. The Minister himself recently found that it is sanding and wringing. She hasn't mentioned solutions yet, but I'm looking forward to that. I would ask the Minister to put forward a number of solutions in the answer, for example to use additional investment space. I agree with those colleagues who have made a plea for this. Is the Minister at least prepared to extend the infrastructure fund so that it can be dealt with now, for example through pre-financing? My second point concerns inland waterway transport. In order to keep the congestion pressure within the limits, more is needed than the construction of additional road surfaces. It is very important to shift freight transport from road to rail and water wherever possible. In this context, I would like to draw attention to inland waterway transport, again. Practice has shown that the follow-up to the Better Benutten programme focuses mainly on passenger transport. That's a missed opportunity. Indeed, inland waterway transport has put forward a concrete plan to actively look for shippers in the coming years and to see how better use can be made of coastal, inland waterway and rail transport. A quarter of the lorry kilometres could also be transported by water and rail, at least that. So that offers perspective. I ask the Minister to support this plan and to promote it wherever possible. In the meantime, inland waterway transport has come up against the emission requirements for marine engines. These are being tightened up more and more. This is, of course, excellent for new builders and should be done above all, but replacement of engines in existing ships is expensive, while costs cannot be passed on. However, behind the drawing table is mainly used on this. That, in our view, is short-sighted. By adapting existing engines, skippers often already manage to achieve significant emission reductions, according to work visits we have made. However, this needs to be demonstrated better, so that it becomes a serious alternative to the new ship's engine. We've been working on a green deal to get to work on this. However, the money to do this on a sufficiently large scale is not yet available. I ask the Minister to take a step forward in consultation with the sector. There is a lot of discussion about competition policy in agriculture. Cooperation is needed to improve the market position and further make the sector more sustainable. If you let those messages work on you, you think: yes, that makes sense, let the entrepreneurs in the agricultural sector work together so that steps can be taken! That is, in a manner of speaking, a kind of cooperative approach. The same applies, however, to inland waterway transport, but this is an old bump: the competition authority is very critical of this point and has already blocked some initiatives. Economic Affairs is now working on a policy rule that creates more room for cooperation. I think it is important that inland waterway transport should be included in this. Is the Minister prepared to commit himself to this? My third point concerns water and the Environment Act. I shall begin with the written questions I have asked about an important European Court ruling on the Water Framework Directive. The answer shows that the Minister does not see any problems for Dutch policy, while several lawyers think otherwise. They note that Dutch policy is not satisfactory. The Netherlands tests projects with a possible impact on water quality under the National Water Plan. That water plan shall take into account the water quality standard. This indirect review gives room for manoeuvre. However, the European Court seems to be going through a line here. The judgment also seems to make working with a programmatic approach, for example in the framework of the Environment Act, very difficult. With the Minister, I am wholeheartedly in favour of as much flexibility as possible. However, we must ensure that we do not run into a head-on collision by ignoring legal realities. I therefore ask the Minister to look again at the legal ins and outs and to give them more insight into the WHO Water. Finally, I will deal with the ammonia and livestock regime. The advisory committee is still on the budget, which was not intended to do so. What will the Minister do with this technical advisory committee? This advisory committee plays an important role in assigning emission factors for stables. In the field of work, however, there is a great deal of dissatisfaction with the bureaucratic way in which this committee operates. This hinders sustainable development and necessary innovation of barn systems; there you have another old-fashioned bump. The aim was to professionalise and then privatise this advisory committee. Very little has been done so far. I understand there's an opinion from Berenschot in the Ministry, but it's in a drawer to dust. I could give you the summary of that opinion so that you can at least take note of it. In any case, it cannot be the intention that nothing else should happen with such advice. I would like to receive a response from the Minister, but above all action. The Minister is good at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u160	The last speaker of the Chamber is Mr Houwers, and then we really stop.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u161	Mr. Chairman. I too begin by thanking former Secretary of State Mansveld for her commitment and cooperation in recent times. Although the name of the new Secretary of State is not yet formally known, I wish the new Secretary of State, whoever he may be, good luck, because there is a lot of work to be done. As you probably already know, the Netherlands is in the top three countries with the best infrastructure. In addition, tram line 2 of Amsterdam is among the top ten of the most beautiful tram lines in the world and the Netherlands has the best port structure in the world. In short, we're doing a lot of good. However, there is also a lot to improve. You may think of the problems with ProRail that have not yet been solved and the public transport tenders, where things continue to run a bit messy. The Netherlands is one of the countries with the most traffic jams and today we have heard a lot about the Fyra. I therefore believe that investment and innovation in infrastructure is necessary. Fortunately, the government and the minister are very much in the process of doing so, for which they congratulate this minister. I also have some critical comments on the Minister's budget and policy. In my opinion, the regional rail sector in particular does not receive the attention it deserves and which is necessary. The Netherlands is bigger than the Randstad. Especially for people outside the Randstad, a good infrastructure is crucial. That is why we need to invest in regional rail. There are still many railway lines in the country where that could be done. These lines are very vulnerable to calamities, allowing waiting and travel times to increase rapidly, because there is only rail. These lines should be improved to double lines. Also the many railway lines where diesel trains still run are a good example. The electrification of these lines would make the railway lines cleaner, faster and better. In that context, I still have an innovative idea. I know there's some thought going on about cutting down rails and putting solar panels on those roofs. You could also think about possibilities to use the space between the rails for the installation of solar panels and thus use the space already present. Is the Minister prepared to take that idea with him to ProRail and see if we can make better use of the space? Investing in a more robust rail network is therefore not only desirable, but also essential in my view. I believe that, in addition to funding by the Empire, other ways of financing, for example through the provinces, should and should also be looked at. Does the Minister agree that a robust regional track is crucial for the infrastructure of the Netherlands? Does she agree with me that this is why more investment in regional rail is needed, in any way? In my opinion, innovation in infrastructure is necessary. If you want to stay at the top, you're gonna have to work on that. I therefore call for continued attention to be paid to the latest technologies. In particular, the self-driving car, I know that the Minister is a warm supporter of it, and this is an eye-catching innovation. This technology is still in its infancy, but can make better use of the infrastructure and, in my view, bring the infrastructure to the next phase. In addition, it can make the infrastructure much safer. That's why I'm calling on the Minister to make room for self-driving cars. In my opinion, the main road network should be made suitable for self-driving cars in the short term. In the Netherlands, this must be taken first and the infrastructure must be prepared for that self-driving car. Does the Minister share the view that this is a possibility and that we certainly want and will continue to take the lead in this? Finally, I would like to mention the many cash slides; others have also spoken about them. There are quite a few changes in the budget. It is by shifting budgets and provisions that things become unreadable and not more understandable. That's too bad. In order to keep that budget accessible, clear and sound, I would like to call on the Minister to consider how to prevent it and perhaps completely exclude it in future budgets. This may require more money, but we are going to look at it together. Does the Minister want to look specifically at this and try to find solutions to it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u162	This was the first term of the Chamber. Thanks to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-9.u163	Tomorrow at 4 p.m. we will listen to the Minister's answers. I'll wish everyone at home.
