ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. Let me say straight away at the beginning of this plenary debate: working after the age of AOW does not have the highest priority for the Christian Union, especially now that age has been stretched further and faster. Moreover, there is no need for labour market urgency in view of the high level of unemployment. Life is more than just paid labour, and that should certainly apply to AOWs who, after a lifetime of hard work, enjoy their well-deserved rest. Enough is enough, you'd think. Many of them are also active as volunteers in association life or in the church. In this way, they continue to work for society, so that they continue to participate in society. On the other hand, my party also notes that there are AOWs who want to (continue) to carry out paid work. This group is modest, but it is responding. In ten years, this group doubled to about 13% of all 65 to 69-year-olds. They are, according to research, not primarily guided by financial motives but above all by intrinsic considerations. Keeping working gives them satisfaction. They are part of networks and feel useful by transferring knowledge to younger generations of workers. However, they do want to direct working hours, working hours and work themselves. Flexibility is the key word. It is a cohort of elderly people who are healthy and vital, who are full of life and who enjoy paid work as a meaningful interpretation of their daily lives. They do this above all, according to research again, as a self-employed or temporary worker. However, employers are reluctant to hire or retain AOW employees, for example because of the high cost of passing on sickness. This payment obligation can be up to 104 weeks, so no less than two years. And that is a little attractive perspective for employers and one of the biggest stumbling blocks. This also explains the wide choice for the zzp construction: more than half of the active AOW'ers are self-employed. In order to remove existing obstacles, the government opts for a lighter labour law regime in this bill. These include, in particular, adjustments in the field of protection against dismissal, the definition of the chain, the payment of sickness, the application of the statutory minimum wage and the non-application of the Working Time Adjustment Act. These adjustments should make it more interesting for the employer to employ AOW employees through regular employment contracts and provide them with the advantage of employment over the uncertain existence of self-employed or temporary workers, at least the reasoning is that. I'll get back to you on that. The empirical basis laid by the Minister under his bill is not convincing in all respects. For example, rather different analyses are presented in support of working after the AOW age, which appeared in very different periods in terms of labour market. The 2006 ESC opinion and the 2008 report of the Bakker Commission breathed the picture of a tight labour market in which everyone, including older workers, was desperately needed. The autumn agreement of 2013, in which the legislative proposal is directly motivated, was signed during a crisis period of high unemployment, especially among older jobseekers. And at the time we are discussing this bill, the worst crisis seems to be over, but we are still facing high unemployment. The question is therefore whether the choice made by the cabinet to facilitate longer working hours is so easily linked and legitimized by such diverse labour market analyses. Is, to put it bluntly, facilitating working after the AOW age cyclically invariant? Can the Minister give a brief reflection on this? The proposal is, in the view of the members of the ChristianUnion Group, ambigue on the objective of the proposal. On the one hand, it is argued that the cabinet does not want more than to remove obstacles to longer working. I quote the note following the report of the House of Representatives: 'The government notes that this bill is not intended to stimulate work after the age of AOW, but to facilitate this on the basis of a contract of employment'. On the other hand, despite this commitment, there is a detailed argument as to the labour market relevance of working longer, both from a micro and a macro perspective. It is argued in detail that the cabinet does not expect any displacement effects. Is the first approach of the bill now purely to remove some labour law obstacles for AOWs who want to work or does the government also have further labour market considerations? Does the bill aim to provide primary employers with support to employ job-seekers and low-cost AOWs or does it also have autonomous labour market effects in mind? Of course, one does not have to rule out the other, but it is important for the assessment of the proportionality and underlying objective of the legislative proposal. I would like a brief comment from the Minister on this point. As far as my group is concerned, the lighter labour law regime chosen by the cabinet does not raise insurmountable concerns across the board. Working 65-plussers may fall back on their AOW and often also on supplementary pensions. Research shows that there is no compelling financial motive to carry out paid work. However, we are pleased that thanks to the Schouten/Vermeij motion, the payment obligation in case of illness has been increased from six to thirteen weeks pending the review of the law. This narrows the gap created by this regime between AOW entitled workers and older workers who have not yet reached the AOW age. The latter, I have already mentioned, are subject to a payment obligation of up to 104 weeks. But that is not the end of the matter, as I shall argue in a moment. In the House of Representatives, a wide-ranging debate has been held on possible displacement effects by this bill, for example on whether making the hiring of AOWs more attractive will not be at the expense of the labour market opportunities of young people, for example. This is also an essential question in my group's view. In order to gain more insight into this issue, the CPB has been asked to calculate these effects. The conclusion of the Planning Bureau's thinking is that some displacement is to be expected in the short term, but not in the longer term. This relative conclusion shall be repeated in the explanatory memorandum, the reply and the further deliberations. But here too, the empirical evidence is somewhat flawed. Indeed, the CPB did not carry out a quantitative analysis but developed a kind of plausibility reasoning which concludes that these displacement effects are limited. So there's no math. In view of the limited size of the group, the Planbureau does not argue that the additional labour supply of AOW's will adversely affect the employment of non-AOW beneficiaries. The structural employment of younger workers is hardly affected by the later retirement of older workers. It concerns a different type of job, different forms of contract and different hours. Labour markets are dynamic and determined by both labour supply and demand. If supply changes, demand will also adapt, the classic economic philosophy is. In this context, the CPB points to the "lump of labour" error: the idea that young people will suffer if older people continue to work longer. But maybe this isn't the right equation. Rather, the question is what is the impact of continuing work or re-working of AOWs on non-AOW-holders, older jobseekers? After all, the first group is cheaper and is covered by the new, lighter labour market regime. Isn't this displacement ridicule much with these two groups of employees? In addition, high unemployment among older workers, particularly over 55 years of age, has been observed. Their job opportunities are obviously bad. Will the bill not stimulate competition between the two groups? Isn't it much more attractive for employers to hire a re-entering AOW than an unemployed 55-year-old? Does this group not threaten to be the victim of this bill, especially if we take into account the significant differences in pay-as-you-go payments in the case of illness? Can the Minister give his light to this matter again? For the Christian Union Group, this is a key issue in the assessment of the legislative proposal. The CPB's argument that displacement of older non-AOWs by AOW beneficiaries is unlikely because the labour market participation of both groups has increased simultaneously in recent years is not very strong. This concerns the period for the intended introduction of a lighter labour law regime for 65-plussers. The problem of displacement of the job opportunities of both groups also raises the question of what the government itself is doing as an employer to contain this issue. Is there an active policy to prevent displacement in the own sector? If so, what are the ingredients of the approach? My group welcomes the widely adopted Dijkgraaf amendment, which aims to evaluate the legislative proposal, specifically in view of possible displacement effects. We assume that these effects will be determined for both younger and older workers, but also between neighbouring age groups of older workers and older job seekers. Can the Minister confirm this? Has the Minister already entered into consultation with the CBS on how to monitor these possible displacement effects? If so, what are the commitments made? The aim of the legislative proposal is to remove barriers to post-AOW work and to make it attractive for employers to hire AOW workers. The question now is how this endeavour relates to the finding that 60% of AOW workers are self-employed. Does the Minister expect this share to decrease on the basis of the proposed measures? Is the current choice of self-employed status a compulsory choice or were AOW employees also employed as self-employed for their AOW pension on a voluntary basis? Why would they now opt for employment with an employer? Is that what they're waiting for? This question has hardly been raised in the debate and my group is happy to ask the Minister for his opinion on this point. I would like to make one final point. The SZW Secretary of State is in the process of revising our pension system. Flexibilisation of the retirement age is one of the main concerns. That is a complicated matter, and that is quite clear. My group is well aware that this is a different chess board, a different playing field, with other players, but does the Minister not ask if he sees a relationship between this issue and the bill we are discussing today? Are there any interfaces? If so, at what point do the two subjects meet? I'm closing up. Working after the age of AOW is apparently a cultural trend. To what extent this development will take off, the question is, especially as we accelerate the AOW age. It seems, however, that employers attach importance to a austere working regime for this group, and this bill offers them that. For the Christian Union Group, this is not a spearhead of policy. It is more important to reduce unemployment among 55-plussers. Their position on the labour market is worrying, their job opportunities are lowest of all age groups. That should be the focus of policy. The proposal before us does not make us hot, but it does not make us cold. We are happy to await the Minister's answers to our questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-3.u3	Mr. Chairman. Many people not only work for the money, but also because they find it a useful and perhaps enjoyable use of their time. Depending on the pleasure in the work and the energy it costs, some would like to stop working and enjoy a well-earned, quiet old age, while others should not think about stopping working at retirement age. Our Chamber currently has 17 members who show that after reaching the age of AOW you can still have good social ambitions and be perfectly capable of fulfilling those ambitions. For this reason, the SP Group was and is strongly in favour of the timely build-up of adequate pensions, for the group of people who work after 40 years, but also of removing legal obstacles to working after reaching the AOW age, for those who are happier. Can the Minister confirm that in his view there are many motives for working and that money is certainly not the only reason for people to be socially active? I ask this because it is good in other debates to keep that in mind. For example, when we talk about the level of benefits, we do not have to immediately think that an increase in them means that people feel less need to work. After all, financial incentives only partly explain the motives for employees. For employers, however, this is clearly different. I quote the explanatory memorandum to the legislative proposal: "The legislative proposal aims to facilitate (continue) working after the age of AOW. To this end, employers' obligations in the event of illness and incapacity for work for workers entitled to AOW are reduced. Moreover, as far as collective agreements are concerned, employers are given more scope to offer more temporary contracts for a longer period of time, without entitlement to a fixed contract. In addition, the notice of termination of AOW employees is reduced to one month. These measures make it more attractive for employers to hire or retain employees entitled to benefit from the AOW." In my words, the rights of working AOWs are restricted to make it more attractive for employers to employ more AOWs, cheaper. I continue with the quote: "The lower protection makes it less attractive for AOW beneficiaries to work, but this effect is expected to be limited. AOW beneficiaries generally do not work primarily for the money and already derive financial security from the AOW and any supplementary pension. The above measures therefore have an upward effect on the employment of AOW beneficiaries on balance. On the other hand, this may lead to displacement of non-AOW beneficiaries." I shall be speaking about this displacement, just like the speaker before me. First, I ask the Minister a number of questions about the quote. Why does the Minister consider it morally acceptable to sacrifice the status of workers for the availability of cheaper and easier labour for employers? Is that a just appreciation and reward for 40 years of hard work? You can, if you want, keep working, but do you like less rights? Is it possible to objectively justify the distinction on the basis of age for the degree of labour market protection? The Equal Treatment Act (Wgbl) allows discrimination on grounds of age only if there is an objective justification for the distinction. An objective justification requires a legitimate objective for age differentiation, as well as appropriate and necessary means to achieve that objective. Why does the government consider the objective of facilitating employers to hire AOW entitled workers legitimate to discriminate against employees according to age in terms of labour market protection? Why is it appropriate and necessary to remove barriers for employers to employ AOW beneficiaries in the government's view? In particular, the necessity leads me to question. I am very curious to see why the Minister considers this necessary. This bill is a result of previous discussions on working after reaching the AOW age. I refer, among other things, to the 2006 Economic and Social Council opinion. Since then, we have continued to have a financial and economic crisis and there have been very different insights into the development of the labour market. At that time, it was assumed that there would be a future shortage in the labour market. That image has now been drastically tilted. I would ask the Minister to confirm that it is not expected that there will be a shortage of labour at macro level in the foreseeable future. This changed understanding makes the debate on displacement all the more relevant. The government recognises the risk, but in the opinion of the SP Group it is also trivialising it. That is why, in written preparation, we asked for a quantification of the effect of displacement. But despite the questions, the displacement effect is still completely vague. The CPB concludes that, on balance, the measures contained in the legislative proposal lead to an increase in employment among AOW beneficiaries, without any longer-term displacement. After all, the CPB model assumes that there is always a long-term balance and that every labour supply creates its own demand. Can the Minister indicate when there was the last balance between supply and demand in the labour market? Moreover, in the short term, even according to the CPB, there may be displacement, but this risk is assessed as limited. However, some quantification cannot be given by the CPB on request and the government apparently does not dare to say anything about it without CPB quantification. How is Parliament supposed to assess whether the social interest is served by increasing the employment rate of AOW beneficiaries at the expense of the employment rate of other groups dependent on their income, without knowing how much that effect is? Surely the Minister agrees with my party that such repression is highly undesirable? Why, then, has the extent of this displacement not been identified in order to make a proper assessment of the desirability of this legislative proposal? The government is also taking measures to combat repression. However, some of the measures, such as making it easier to dismiss AOWs in the event of economic bad times and less quickly giving them the right to a fixed contract, are measures that make it even more attractive for employers to recoup AOWs. I would therefore ask the Minister to indicate exactly how these measures are countering displacement. It will be clear to the Minister that the SP Group is far from convinced, but we await his answers with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-3.u4	Mr. Chairman. For decades, the AOW has been largely deprived of income support, a somewhat euphemistic term for the balding of the once so famous basic provision for old age. With the argument to make the AOW sustainable for later, a continuous demolition process has actually started, in parallel with the interventions in the field of supplementary pensions. For both dossiers, the constant factor is budgetary policy driven by opportunity, not hampered by any solid vision of the pension file. Any kind of sensible pension dialogue is, as a result of a potpourri to qualify measures in advance as superfluous, a pro forma rearguard fight against all salami interventions. And what always frazzles is the unprecedented opportunism, which is sold as often as "policy choice." The most recent example of this is the legislative proposal to speed up a proposal to gradually increase the age of AOW to 67 and above, depending on life expectancy. In spite of the CPB calculations, which indicated that the increase in AOW expenditure was under control, this cabinet continued to persist in the misleading reasoning that the "economic situation was such that a contribution could be expected from this group'. As if it hasn't been done for decades. It was also easy to forget that the labour market deficits indicated at the time in the Bakker report of 2008 were not present. On the contrary, the position of older people on the same labour market has only deteriorated further. A rapidly shifting AOW age in time results in even higher unemployment among this group with a corresponding income drop. How, then, can you say with dry eyes, as this cabinet does, that by the increasing the age of the AOW is positively stimulated the labour supply of older people? And why would it be that, as noted in the explanatory memorandum, "the group of people who want to work after the AOW age is very small compared to the number of workers under that age"? So much for the opacity to the present bill to look at this less isolated. A broader context is certainly needed for any appreciation of it. This bill should be justified in the cabinet's sense of need among the AOW's to seem to stay on. In addition, older people would be badly needed in the labour market in the long term. And experience must be preserved. Nice words, though. To put it mildly, this proposal raises the necessary questions. And this is without prejudice to the fact that the primary objective, as defined in such a general and qualitative way, remains to be endorsed in this limited sense. However, the questions are about urgency, necessity, timing and level of reality. First of all, despite the provisions of various collective agreements on automatic dismissal at the age of AOW, it is possible to continue working in several forms. In this sense, this bill offers nothing new except that it has been chosen to apply a lighter labour law regime in those situations. I refer to a limited duration of sickness benefits and priority in the case of occupational redundancies. This should remove barriers to work by employers. In any case, this group is already cheaper because of the removal of contributions for WW, AOW and pension. The only lower limit is the minimum wage. You'd say, "Beautiful, profit for both sides." However, reality seems different and certainly more complex. Various circumstances indicate the limits of this proposal. Although the target group, as a result of the rapid increase in entry age, will significantly decrease at a current level of around 110,000 AOW workers, the urgency to work will in itself increase. Debit are the great austerities in the AOW itself. Think of the decoupling, the fiscalisation, the sustainability contribution and the abolition of the partner bonus. Furthermore, for years there is the non-indexation of supplementary pensions, a phenomenon that will certainly go on indefinitely in the new ftk. In addition, the negative effects of the previous Witteveen building reductions plus the misery that the Work and Security Act will still cause in the pension domain in the form of no or only a limited build-up for those who still have work. And for the government population, the recent negotiator agreement adds a little bit to it, with lower pension benefits from 6% to 14% in the future. The illusions of the UFR and its implications remain undisputed. Against the background of the fact that the supplementary pension is currently on average €600 to €700 gross per month, the observation can be no other than a further evaporation of the supplementary pension combined with an AOW which is roughly reduced to the original emergency pension from 1947. Too bad, out of the 5 billion scatters from the 2016 Millions' Note, nothing has come to the pensioners. On the contrary, a substantial proportion of the AOWs are declining in purchasing power, to some 5% or 9%. This underlines the ambivalence in policy. Or does the Minister consider that the possible work now or in the future will compensate for the rising purchasing power trap? Then when? Verily, there is no exalted prospect. All the reasons for this group to continue working. The reasoning that there would be "no need to be provided by work for its own maintenance" is outdated for years, as is the argument that one "likes it, for social reasons, vitality." Unfortunately, the shore is turning the ship, and the timing of the bill is, to say the least, rather unfortunate. Yes, older people want to work, as the CBS says, but initially the group of jobseekers aged 45 and over. This represents more than half of the total number of jobseekers, of whom 55 to 65 are the largest. No pluses in the Millions note here either. Because that's what you have to work for first. For this group there is a maximum of the zero line, excluding the growing group of flex workers who are unexpectedly affected by a significantly lower WW benefit as a result of a new daily wage decision. I understand, moreover, that the Minister is now working on this. Can the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment, with the emphasis on employment, indicate exactly what his priorities are? Are those the retired AOWs or the 55-plussers? Surely it is not possible for this law to lead to unfair competition on working conditions and to repression? How can the Minister maintain with some certainty that the identified displacement is limited, including in the case of young people? And how does he assess the unfocused chopper money of 5 billion? How do tax cuts really contribute to job creation? Is the Minister aware of the recent SCP report entitled Question for Labour? This indicates that there is little willingness on the part of employers to employ older people, especially if they are over 65, let alone 67 and over. It shouldn't be surprising. This finding is in line with the CPB Policy Letter Elders working on the increasing structural unemployment among this group. These people have a low chance of returning to work and employers are not investing in them. How can the Minister say that the labour market position of older people has improved significantly? And how can we seriously draw attention to all kinds of UWV's action plans? The CBS also headlined that it is good to know that 50-plussers with a WW benefit can go to UWV, but UWV is an organisation that has recently been publicly qualified as an impersonal technocratic bastion armed with an impenetrable digital wall. How can we expect anything of that in the search for work? The austerity drive has led to a perplexed form of system thinking. Can the Minister indicate how many years it will take for this bump to go to work? Just as hilarious are the statements of the top of the CPB: one should not apply enough and the WW should go down. The fact that there is a structural shortage of jobs for this group does not seem to occur directly. It shouldn't be any crazier. Every sense of urgency is lacking at this level, sung away from reality and in spite of its own report. Mr President, I will conclude in the first term. In summary, the conclusion is that the urgency to work and thus to take up a calving AOW and a shrinking pension is, or becomes, life-size. This goes beyond being a little bit busy for fun, as the bill is now breathing. As long as unemployment is equally worrying and labour market policy does not go beyond spending some money to increase consumption for workers and push the inactive even further below the zero line, there is nothing left but a piece of illusion policy. There's just no work for the AOW group, let alone for the group underneath. And that is not going to happen at all in the foreseeable future. The real problem of still rising unemployment of over 600,000 is hardly being addressed. And the idea that the aforementioned 5 billion will create 35,000 jobs in the long term is based on wishful thinking rather than on any reliable calculation. But let's keep hope. Finally, the timing of this bill is not very happy. It is at most qualifying as an empty hand-off for a distant future at the moment, which you may wonder if it will occur. That it was placed on the list of urgent legislative proposals by letter dated 3 September. is therefore completely incomprehensible. It suggests that it would now have something to offer to the group AOW'ers. Quod nun, but probably for the employers' group. It seems that this cabinet has been affected by what the philosopher Samuel Coleridge called the suspension or disbelief, the elimination of rational disbelief and the desire to believe that the fiction presented will be reality. The group of AOW'ers, I think, has more sense of reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-3.u5	Mr. Chairman. In this debate we would like to mention a few more facts. In addition, a new situation has arisen since treatment in the Lower House: the arrival of thousands of refugees who may have an impact on supply on the labour market. That will once again affect the position of the elderly. We believe that this new situation calls for an additional rethink. During both the examination in the Lower House and the written preparation in the Upper House, everyone finds the idea behind the proposal sympathetic. Older people wishing to continue working after reaching the age of AOW should be given better opportunities for this, and employers should not be put in place unnecessary barriers to make this possible. Who isn't in principle for that? At the same time, serious doubts have been expressed as to whether the introduction from 1 January 2016 will not be premature, given the situation on the labour market of older people in particular. We will support this with figures. Those who read through all the documents repeatedly find that the government takes the view that workers who want to work after the age of AOW do not do so primarily because of their salary. In the reply, the cabinet says it even harder: "No one is forced to provide maintenance by means of work after the AOW age because of the AOW as a basic pension provision." The CPB states that the present legislative proposal will in the short term lead to the displacement of non-AOW beneficiaries. On top of that, the decision was taken during this cabinet period to increase the AOW age by an additional acceleration, which means that jobs will generally remain occupied for longer periods of time. In fact, a child can understand: if jobs remain occupied longer, then there is a smaller possibility for influx. This is all the more important in a time of high unemployment. The trade union movement even speaks of unfair competition because workers who have reached the age of AOW are cheaper because there are fewer costs in terms of employers' contributions. In their letter of 25 March this year, the trade unions FNV and CNV claim that this bill is a wrong measure at a totally wrong time. There are still 600,000 people unemployed at home. A dagger in the back of the Netherlands, the proposal is called. The trade unions therefore strongly request that this proposal be rejected. It will increase unemployment among the 55-plussers. In fact, the government admits that. The reply states: "An employer will rather be willing to employ a 60-year-old employee and invest in him if he can use the valuable expertise of this employee even after the age of AOW." In other words, the government foresees that employees will remain in office longer after reaching the AOW age. Labour supply is being increased rather than focusing on combating unemployment; jobs remain occupied longer for the army of 600,000 jobseekers. The government also recognises that the picture is less rosy when older people lose their jobs. An average of 45% of the 55-year-old unemployed have found a job within 12 months. In the case of the 60-year-old unemployed, this is only 20%. Long-term unemployment is also relatively common among older people, as the government clearly states. Unemployment has fallen in recent months, but not among the elderly. On the contrary. In 2010, between the ages of 60 and 65, 4% were still unemployed. According to ING's economic office, this had risen to almost 10% in the first quarter of this year. The decline in unemployment is very uneven across generations. While, fortunately, youth unemployment was falling by about 3.5%, the unemployment rate of the 55 to 65-year-olds has never been higher by 8.4%. In this situation, the introduction of the said unfair competition is completely irresponsible. In all this a new and important fact has arisen since the law has been dealt with in the Lower House. Thousands of refugees are currently reporting in the Netherlands. Our former colleague, Senator and SCP Director Kim Putters, states that most will stay here and be helped by a job. This puts extra pressure on the labour market. Does the Minister share this view? The 50PLUS Group would also like to answer the following question. What does the Minister think of a recently proclaimed view by a chairman of the employers that highly educated Syrians are welcome in the Netherlands and should be able to find a job here quickly? Does he think it is right for Syria to remain populated with the least educated people in particular? What does the Minister think of the fact that refugees want to work here in hospitals, while hospitals in Syria cannot provide sufficient help to the many victims? And if those highly educated people get a job here, at the same time we are accelerating to raise the AOW age and now want to introduce this law, what is the impact on youth unemployment and unemployment among the many older people who are already unable to find work? Can the Minister give an account of how he sees all this? To sum up, the current high unemployment rate of 600,000 people, the accelerated increase in the AOW age which will keep many jobs occupied for longer than foreseen and the new situation since the treatment in the Lower House that the arrival of many refugees will further increase the labour supply, make it necessary not to allow this law to enter into force as of 1 January 2016. We ask the Minister if he is prepared to postpone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-3.u6	Mr. Chairman. The Working Act after the AOW age should make it easier for people to continue to work in paid employment even after retirement. "It's fun, contributes to people's self-esteem and keeps people vital," the minister writes. Who could be against that? Certainly not when people can do that "with less hours, in adjusted working hours and with less sense of time pressure." I am still quoting from the reply given to us by the Minister on 12 June. Moreover, the arguments put forward by the Minister almost all apply equally to all kinds of other forms of social activity that people engage in after the end of their working lives. One or more days take care of your grandchildren, be active in association life, collect the church or the neighborhood for the AZC; it's not just paid work that can be fun, satisfying and meaningful. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance sees a certain ambiguity in the attitude of the cabinet in the legislative proposal. The cabinet wants to remove thresholds, but not stimulate them. It wants to facilitate, but it doesn't make it an objective. It says that there will be no displacement in the longer term, but it has clear quantitative effects in the short and long term. It sounds a bit like: it doesn't have to be for us, but yes, we're sitting here and we're doing it anyway. GroenLinks is okay with people also being active and staying at a later age and working in society, whether they are paid or unpaid. And we also consider it of great value that companies and institutions can continue to exploit the expertise and experience of older people. If obstacles can be removed, then you have our blessing. But we are not in favour of ambiguity, or even worse, for half-hearted operation. If the cabinet wants to facilitate that people can continue to work paid after their AOW, then that should apply to us under conditions equivalent to those for others. We do not want a B category of employees for whom the legal status is inferior to that of other employees. We certainly do not want to see unequal competition between unemployed people in their 50s who have to apply and have difficulty getting back to work in the short term after the introduction of this law, and those in the AOW age who are more attractive to employers, because they have a much lower legal status. With the cabinet, we can still argue that in the longer term the issue of displacement will not play, because demand for workers is ultimately also driven by supply. However, I would ask the Minister how he will prevent, in view of the current labour market, the short-term displacement of groups with a difficult position on the labour market. Can the Minister undertake to monitor these effects? What concrete measures will he take? As far as GroenLinks is concerned, we'd rather help a 60-year-old than a 69-year-old. This leads to a number of serious limitations in the legal status of AOW's who continue to work paid. Only a very short period of payment in case of illness, no re-integration obligation, no ban on dismissal in case of illness and a short notice period of one month. That is precisely the kind of restriction which, we fear, will lead to a kind of legal status B. Does the Minister agree with the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance that this creates a form of undesirable age discrimination and legal inequality? And does the Minister agree with the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance that this form of age discrimination should be carefully assessed as proportionate and necessary? We will not see that review again. If obstacles are to be removed that limit people to remain actively paid or unpaid in a meaningful way after their AOW, we welcome that. However, we fear that this legislative proposal will lead, above all, to too much inequality in the legal position of employers, which makes one group of people more attractive than another and leads to too much weakening of the employment position for workers. We are looking forward to the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-3.u7	Madam President. The present draft law aims to facilitate work on the basis of an employment contract after reaching the AOW age. A personal note: my mother's maiden name is Ragetli, which is not very common. I was therefore pleased to be surprised that the Minister referred in his reply to the, unknown to me, Ragetlie rule. The Group of the Party of European Socialists welcomes the removal of obstacles to employment and congratulates the Minister on the arrangements for dismissal and payment in the event of illness. Many of the AOW's today are not comparable to the AOW's from the time this public insurance was introduced, in terms of the possibilities of working, among other things. They have a much longer life expectancy, of which for many the first ten years in good to very good health, and therefore need to adapt the rules. My group is not sensitive to the repression argument. This was once used to hinder married women from working; they would one day throw out a male earner and his family's bread. At the same time, we find the argument put forward by the Minister here, namely that long-term employment is determined by labour supply, rather firm, certainly from the mouth of a PvdA minister. I would remind you of Keynes' statement: 'in the long run we are all dead', and of the passage in the throne speech of a week ago in which it was stated that lower taxes on labour will lead to more consumption and hence employment. In any case, we do not see displacement as a problem of this bill. The AOW'er of today is, I told you, a different one than that of 1956. He wants and can participate more in society. That is a good thing. Working through, if desired, is one of the elements. And there is a need for rights and rules other than those of the past. This bill contributes to adapting the rules to reality, but are we there with that? My group needs to look at the proposed change in the light of the whole set of rules for AOW's. Our first question to the Minister is how he assesses the acceptability and sustainability of a number of other AOW's arrangements in the light of his proposed adaptation of rules to reality. Let me give you a few examples. AOW's are still entitled to an old-age income tax discount of at least €150 depending on income and can reach more than €1,000. Is this arrangement still of this time, now that many contemporary AOWs are no longer the old days? How does the Minister assess this positive age discrimination that also benefits high-income and wealth AOWs? What would he say about abolishing the tax advantage of having reached the AOW age, regardless of income and wealth, starting with AOW employees in employment? And how does the Minister look at age discrimination in the first and second disc rates? How does he motivate an AOWer to pay much less tax on the same income? After all, the rates in the first and second disc are over 18 and 22% for AOW'ers, and over 36 and 40% for whom the AOW age has not yet reached. Poverty is less common under no age group thanks to the AOW and tax benefits than among older people, where, if it does occur, it is usually high-age people with only AOW. Thanks to the value of their property, AOW's are the most wealthy generation. Does the Minister agree with us that there is no reason to grant special tax or other advantages to older people on no grounds other than their age? For the sake of clarity, we are not calling for a review of facilities to compensate for low income, but for a review of the age criterion. Not only on the revenue side, also on the expenditure side, AOW'ers have financial advantages regardless of their income and assets. Many of them are not within the sphere of influence of the Minister, such as membership of our own Nieuwspoort: AOW'ers, poor or rich, receive a 50% discount. But take the NS, a state participation: there is a 50% subscription discount only and only based on age. A starter with the same income, a rental house, and children who depend on his income, must simply pay the full price on the train. This, too, may not be the Minister's area; I would like to outline the background against which we would like to assess this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-3.u8	I have a question for the speaker. We are talking today about working after the age of AOW, and what I hear now alone is a requisition against the tax policy that exists for the elderly. Now we already knew that D66 has some kind of hate for the elderly, but in my opinion the speaker is now very far beyond the shores of the subject that is now on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-3.u9	Mr Nagel, thank you for this interruption. Isn't it up to this Chamber to assess legislative proposals for consistency? That is what I am talking about in my speech. Older hate is very, very far-fetched by the fraction of D66. Madam President. I ask the Minister whether he is prepared to examine the possibility of ending the tax preference on the grounds of age alone. The government could use the money it saves to make life easier for those who really need it, AOW'er or not. The D66 Group considers the search for a sustainable and harmonious society to be essential. And that includes responsibility for younger generations. Other questions from my group to the Minister are as follows. Is it true that wage earners will be able to earn more of their gross wage net than their colleagues who are doing exactly the same job for the same gross wage? I do not mean that they receive AOW on top of their pay, but that they have more net earnings than their younger colleagues. If so, how is this compatible with the Equal Treatment Act based on age in employment? Certainly, the law says that the prohibition of discrimination does not apply if the distinction is based on policies to promote the labour market participation of certain age groups. But the Minister's reply is correct, I quote: 'the purpose of this bill is not to increase the employment rate after the age of AOW'. Has the Minister mapped out what the difference in net wages is, therefore, exclusive of AOW between two employees with a modal income of whom one is entitled and the other is not entitled to AOW? Does the Minister have an idea of the background characteristics, in particular gender, level of education and recently earned income, of AOWs who are now working in employment contracts and of those who are expected to make use of the proposed facilitation? Is it true that a non-working, not yet AOW entitled partner of a working AOW is entitled to counterfeit subsidies, and that of a non-working AOW? I'm rounding up. As I said earlier, my group very much welcomes the participation of everyone, AOW'ers, in social movements. The bill contributes to this. AOWers are full citizens, and the question is whether this measure is justified in isolation. Hence the questions of my group that want to place this bill in a broader context. This is important given one of the tasks of this Chamber, namely to assess legislative proposals for quality and consistency. I look forward to the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-3.u10	I am now going to ring the bell because Mr Vreeman is going to make his maiden speech so that everyone knows that this is going to happen. Mr Vreeman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-3.u11	Madam President. I do find it very special to have a maiden speech here on a subject that is about yourself, namely someone who continues to work after the AOW. As Mr Elzinga has just said, I have estimated over the years that about a quarter of the people in this Chamber will continue to work after the age of AOW. The law facilitates paid employment after the AOW age. The discussion is also very much focused on the possible displacement effects. The CPB has indicated that in the longer term it will be all well and I am inclined to agree with it. My estimate is that there will be no massive influx into this work. There are two reasons for this. Firstly, employers hardly invest in the career development of older workers. Going on longer often has to do with whether you find great satisfaction in your work. It diminishes when you have little challenge. There is a paradox in the literature that first the knowledge component is very important and in a later age phase the emotional component. In my view, the latter is underestimated: the role that older workers can play from their experience, with their emotional skills, especially when it comes to guiding younger workers. Secondly, I refer to the paradox of high vitality versus low participation. A lot of employees... a lot of research shows that.. are reasonably satisfied with their work, are vital and healthy and still consider stopping between the 55th and 64th, especially between the 64th and 67th. The reason is actually a sense of time that people have. That's different from what a lot of people think. You get older and you get healthier, you'll want to work longer. Crazy enough, all these studies show that people are considering stopping at that time, if it's possible financially. That has to do with an assessment of whether you're wasting time in this phase of life with work that's getting more and more routine, where you feel like you've done it before, and that you're looking for a period of new meaning and new freedom. I want to place this law in an individual lifelong perspective. What's moving our AOW beneficiaries? A short personal orientation brings me to the next typology that is strongly determined by health, money and social environment. I think there are four categories of people between the ages of 63 and 67 who think about what they want with their lives. You have the workers this Chamber is full of. You have the familyman and woman, who orientate themselves on children and grandchildren; grandpa and grandma. You have the hobbyists: finally the world trip, now I go all the way for the pigeon club or the football club. Finally, you have the "black holes": emptiness, loss of status, booze and marital quarrels. Of course, there are many mixing forms. Everyone's looking for new meanings. The life-cycle approach is interesting. With this law, we facilitate a freedom of choice that is crucial in people's careers. What are the conditions for making individual choices? My party's classic approach is that you need collective arrangements in the unequal power ratio between employer and employee to enable individual development. When I was in college, in the early seventies, you had the class of "the psychology of life." It looked pretty simple. It started with youth, being young, raising and learning. Then it came to work and finally you had rest. We're talking about 40 years ago. This tripartite has changed by length and content over the past 50 years. The balance in life of learning, working and caring has many new dimensions. Perhaps the child phase is still the most unchanged, although the upbringing of two-earners has developed more towards daycare. Learning nowadays is accompanied by work and takes longer. Work is accompanied by learning and care, and lasts longer. The length and content of these phases have changed. And the resting, the third phase of my childhood, has received a very different content. Reflecting on this law, I come to the next question. Do we now adequately facilitate this modern life in the Netherlands? Are we at the forefront of modern industrialized countries? I think this is partly the case. Small but important steps are being taken by the government in the area of childcare. I refer to the last Throne speech. There is also movement in the area of partner and care leave. But we're far from the vanguard. I would like to focus my speech on two stages in life. The first is the rush hour, people aged 25 to 45 years; the age of my children, two earners, two children, flies, rushing, organizing. Luckily, Grandpa isn't sick yet, because that would add up to family care. That's a very busy phase. Two-earners and single people with children often lack time, attention and money to keep a certain balance in life. One consequence, for example, is the part-time clamp for many women who hinder their career and independence. The Netherlands is certainly not at the forefront in this area; compare, for example, the maternity leave schemes in Scandinavian countries and the family care time law in Germany. This also applies to childcare, school hours and study facilities. It seems important to me to look fully at the rush times in life and to find a link with the most modern regulations in the industrial world. The ESC advice Working and living can play a role in the future. The second phase is youth. Young people must have access to the labour market and be able to build independent lives. Two questions are being asked. What approach does the government take to combat persistent discrimination on the basis of origin on the labour market? All the letter reviews show the same thing. Henk always has a better chance with equal skills than Ali. That is actually an embarrassment for a modern country like the Netherlands. Is it not important to address those who carry out the actual selection procedures for applications? It is certainly important to convince the staff in small and medium-sized enterprises that there is a real need for a change of attitude here. The next point reminded me of my childhood. That's the beauty of being here as a little older. In the 1970s I worked in an organisation of working young people. One of our priorities was: the minimum wage to eighteen years or equal pay for equal work. I had to defend that as a young man in jeans and a knitted sweater by my mother-in-law in the union council of which Wim Kok was chairman. I also mention Arie Groenevelt and Cees Schelling; the elderly among us still know these types. We had to defend our program there. Things such as fighting youth unemployment and promoting youth housing were always wonderful. But when the minimum youth wage was discussed, there was always a great conflict about it. I kind of forgot. But now, 40 years later, the staggering of the minimum youth wage is still such that you do not earn half the minimum wage if you are young on the labour market. There is a need to take a step in this area. In a very unpleasant interview in the newspaper with our employer's chairman, he said one sensible thing, namely that it must be negotiable to provide the minimum youth wage financially in such a way that young people can function independently. What are the next steps to address the persistent problem of discrimination in the labour market and the lack of a sense of need for diversity? In the Lower House, a motion was adopted to increase the minimum youth wage. What steps are being taken to this end? What is the path that will lead young people not to enter the labour market for half the minimum wage, but to a wage of a level of which they can exist? I'm closing up. Facilitating a modern life cycle of single people and partners requires an individual commitment, but also accompanying policies. The search for a balanced relationship between work, learning and caring seems to me to be a great, modern challenge for our country.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-3.u12	Mr Vreeman, congratulations on your maiden speech. Allow me to outline some of your background in this place, although you yourself have already referred to it. You have had a long and impressive career in the trade union movement, in the public administration and in the party for which you are now in the First Chamber, the Labour Party. Your roots are unmistakably in the trade union movement. After your studies in work and organizational psychology, you soon started working at the Henri Polak Foundation, the educational institute of the NVV, and after that you were active for many years at the Industriebond FNV. In 1985, you became an employee of the Transportsbond FNV, where you were involved in, among other things, conflicts over the much job-cost transition to container transport. From 1988 to 1992 you were chairman of the same Transport Association FNV. Then you are also beginning to earn your spurs in the political field, and you are not going to avoid difficult tasks. From 1992 to 1997, you and Felix Rottenberg were duo-chairmen, a new phenomenon, of the Labour Party. You returned some time later as acting chairman. In the run-up to the 2003 Dutch Parliament elections, you were chairman of your party's nomination committee. From 1994 to 1996, you were a member of the Lower House. You now belong in our Chamber to the select group of senators who know both chambers from within. After your Second Parliamentary Membership, your career moved to the public administration and you became mayor. first from 1997 to 2005 from Zaanstad and then from 2004 to 2010 from Tilburg. From 2013 to 2015, you were acting mayor of Groningen. In addition to your main functions, you have found space for a large amount of other activities. For example, you were and still are active in sport, formerly as director of the sports umbrella NOC*NSF and now as chairman of the IJshockeybond and as chairman of the KNVB Contract Players Fund, and in the cultural sector. In addition, your CV contains a large list of publications, sometimes written with others, in various fields. That list starts with the publication Footballs as a profession, from 1976, and ends for the time being in 2014 with the book Mijn kleine Grote Markt. In 1985 your dissertation was awarded the title of trade union work and the quality of work at the Technical University of Delft. Your last book, from 2014, is a reflection of the period when you, as mayor of Groningen, lived in an apartment on the Grote Markt; a place to meditate, consider and photograph. That's what you do in that book, along with your photographer's wife. To the long list of publications, you may at some point be able to add a bundle of your profound contributions to the debates in the First Chamber, starting with your contribution to today's AOW debate. I wish you every success in your further contribution to the work of the Chamber. I'm suspending the sitting to give my fellow Members the opportunity to congratulate you on your maiden speech. I'd like to be the first to congratulate you on your maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-3.u13	I would like to hear whether one of the Members wishes to speak in the first term. I note that this is not the case. I shall then suspend the sitting again, pending the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and the Environment. We will see the Minister for Social Affairs later.
