ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-21.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Economic Affairs. We have five participants on the side of the Chamber. I call Mrs Van Tongeren from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. She has, like everyone else, two minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-21.u2	Thank you, Mr President. I'm going to file motions right away. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the SDE+ scheme for 2016 includes most of biomass (BMS) in coal plants;]] [[noting that the Cabinet instructed ibo CO to examine the measures needed to comply with the ruling of the climate court;]] [[noting that the House of Representatives adopted a motion requesting the government to phase out coal power stations;]] [[having noted that the Cabinet indicated that it would decide on a benefit variant plus the corresponding time horizon during this cabinet period;]] [[calls on the government to open up the option of biomass in coal-fired power stations in the SDE+ scheme only after the phase-out of coal-fired power stations and the ibo CO-research have been discussed with the House of Representatives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that expenditure on Sustainable Energy Promotion (SDE+) has been lagging behind the budget for years;]] [[noting that a lot of money remains on the shelf;]] [[Whereas all the money is needed to meet the objectives of clean energy;]] [[calls on the Government to identify the advantages and disadvantages of SDE+'s surplus fund formation and to inform the Court of Justice of this for the 2016 Spring Note,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is an investigation in progress to give effect to the judgment of the judge in the climate case;]] [[noting that the House of Representatives adopted a motion requesting the government to phase out coal power stations;]] [[calls on the Government to suspend the grant of aid for CCS to coal power stations until the phasing out of coal power stations and the ibo CO research have been discussed with the House of Representatives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van Tongeren, Dik-Faber, Van Veldhoven and Smaling. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30196-372]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30196-373]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Tongeren and Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30196-374]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-21.u3	Mr. Chairman. We held a general discussion with the Minister yesterday, but we were unable to conclude the first deadline. So not all questions have been answered yet. The Minister couldn't do that either. I'll file a motion today. I may hold the motion until the second term. The motion reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas more efforts are needed to achieve the energy saving goal in the Energy Agreement;]] [[Whereas the Energy Agreement states that there will be a financial instrument for this purpose for energy-intensive industries;]] [[calls on the government to come forward in January with a financial instrument to stimulate energy savings in energy-intensive industries,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Agnes Mulder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30196-375]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-21.u4	We discussed this with the Minister earlier in June. At that time, he promised to get on with it. However, we do not see anything concrete yet. Hence the question. The Minister introduced a new regime: the ISDE scheme. Maybe he can give us a more concrete idea of what he's going to do. How's that gonna look? My final point is about fracking in Saaksum. We have already tabled a motion on this during the discussion of the EZ budget. The Minister has now made it clear that he is going to investigate the effects of the fracks that have been there by now. We're talking more than 220 fracks. It is important for the CDA that before we continue fracking at all, we first know what the results of the research are. We would like to see the minister just shut the fracking down until then. We now see that the NAM does so on its own. He'll do what we ask. But we'd also like to hear it from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-21.u5	Mr. Chairman. I'll file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the 2016 SDE+ scheme also includes the opening of the first phase at the beginning of March 2016 and the second phase in September 2016;]] [[noting that the Chamber held the motion-Jan Vos c.s. (32813, No. 115), in which the Court ruled that all measures should be examined in order to comply with the judgment in the Urgenda case, which states that CO emissions should be 25% lower by 2020 than in 1990, including the closure of the Dutch coal plants, and also the Van Veldhoven/Van Weyenberg motion (34300, No. 24), which provides for the phasing-out of the Dutch coal power stations, as well as the Klever and Others motion. (34300, 24), in which the Court states that the Cabinet should start implementing additional measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in 2016;]] [[having noted that the Cabinet has prepared an ibo-CO to examine the measures needed to implement the ruling of the judge in the climate case;]] [[Whereas the Cabinet has decided that the judgment in the Urgenda case will be upheld;]] [[Considering that a six-month delay in the decision on biomass by- and most of it does not jeopardise the 14% sustainability target for 2020;]] [[Whereas the long-term continuation of coal-fired power stations leads to long-term shut-down of the much cleaner and sometimes brand new gas plants;]] [[Notes that the granting of SDE+ to biomass by-products should not adversely affect the possibility of phasing-out of coal plants;]] [[calls on the government to open up the option of biomass in coal plants in the SDE+ scheme only after agreement has been reached on how the judge's ruling will be met in order to achieve more CO reduction, there is clarity about the phasing-out of coal plants and thus the implementation of the Jan Vos c.s motion. and the motion-Van Veldhoven/Van Weyenberg and Klaver c.s.;]] [[calls on the Government to respect a clear timetable and to discuss the implementation of the motions with the Chamber before implementing them,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Jan Vos and Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30196-376]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-21.u6	I realize it's a long motion, but I'm trying to specify my motions as precisely as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-21.u7	No one will dispute that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-21.u8	Mr Vos said that there was no risk of achieving the 40% target by 2020. I'm a little worried about that. How can Mr Vos be sure that this objective will be met, even with this delay? We have made good agreements in the energy agreement for stability and peace. Does this kind of extension of agreements not lead to a setback, whereby parties may withdraw if it becomes a little too insecure? How does Mr Vos know it's not going to be a risk?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-21.u9	In the energy agreement we are now lagging behind on a number of points. For example, we are behind wind at sea. It will be exciting how that will run in the First Chamber next week, because there are all sorts of things coming together in the law. You can see that wind on land doesn't always go smoothly. That is not always the way we would like to see it. I believe that we must stick to the commitments and meet the objectives. This also applies to the by- and mostly biomass. Compared to the construction of a wind farm at sea, the most and most of the biomass in a coal power plant is not so complicated. In fact, you don't have to do anything about the brand-new plant Mr Bosman is such a fan of. You heat coal in it for a while, then you can add biomass to it. Then it's just gonna happen on its own. So we can do that well before 2020; we have an endless sea of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-21.u10	It's not so much what I'm a fan of. The point is that we have a certain reliability in meeting the agreements we make. Mr Vos just said that we might not make it with wind at sea and wind on land. He said, however, that the objectives had to be met. In addition, he finds me by his side. We think that's important. My question concerns a recital in his motion, in which he states that we are going to achieve the 14% target by 2020 in any case, including with this story. I would like to hear from Mr Vos how he guarantees that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-21.u11	It is up to the cabinet to implement the agreements agreed by the cabinet in the energy agreement, of which we are both pillars. It is also up to the cabinet to implement the agreements we agreed in our coalition: originally 16% renewable energy by 2020, which has now become 2023. It's up to the Cabinet to carry out all these appointments. I note that we are somewhat behind schedule on a number of points. I also note that the cabinet is very committed and so is this minister. I have praised him time and again for the way in which he is trying to implement it. The cabinet is now in the process of deploying an additional package of measures. I think that is absolutely commendable and I am convinced that it will be fine. That half-year delay for biomass is really not going to lead to a failure to meet the 14% target by 2020.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-21.u12	Mr. Chairman. What matters is reliability. How do we deal with the agreements we have made? What can businesses and NGOs rely on when we make agreements with them for the future, because we believe that the sustainability objectives need to be met? A very large palette of people, companies and NGOs has made agreements with each other. Then I am very concerned when we say here, in this house, as quickly as possible: let us not do so. I am concerned about the future, about the feasibility of objectives. Mr Vos has not removed my fear that this cannot be guaranteed at all. He's just gonna put it in the cabinet. I think that's a little too easy. If we ourselves draw things out of the agreement, then we must also provide for filling ourselves. I didn't hear him say that. I sincerely hope that the Minister will continue with his plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-21.u13	Mr. Chairman. Yesterday we had a general discussion that did not come to an end, by the way, by voting. Well, that's too bad, 'cause we were doing a great job, if you don't mind me summing it up like that. I have a number of motions on the wind farm in Drenthe, but I'm not going to file them now, because we agreed that we would limit ourselves to the SDE+. If we continue the debate next year, there will be plenty of time for that. I am now tabling one motion on the subject we would be discussing today. It's like this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the energy transition is a moving objective;]] [[Whereas, inter alia, the Urgenda pronunciation and the Climate Summit have added a new dimension to the energy transition;]] [[calls on the Government to consider annually in the formulation of the SDE+ support framework which sectors of sport provide the most added value in terms of sustainability, CO emissions reduction and energy saving,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Smaling. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30196-377]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-21.u14	So some kind of motion Vos/Van Tongeren-Light, I'd say.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-21.u15	Mr Smaling tells an important story here in the Chamber about the energy transition, but I remember that we were also in this house three quarters of a year ago and that the SP announced that it would come up with a plan for sustainable housing or zero-on-the-meter housing. That would then be fully calculated and it would be a huge step forward for the energy transition. May I ask Mr Smaling what's going on with the SP plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-21.u16	Yeah, okay. We're working on it. We use the recess to take the necessary final steps. We want to consult external experts, and that's what we're going to do. In spring, the plan must be ready. The intention is also that, when it comes to new elections, we should have a well-designed plan that combines energy, environment and sustainability. I did not invite you to this consultation, but if you appreciate it, I can do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-21.u17	So I understand that it is an election programme part rather than in the interests of energy transition and energy reduction. It's just an election program story.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-21.u18	Well. I think it is a good thing that as a political party you occasionally take a close look at a subject and see if the views are still up-to-date. Especially since this theme is also contained in that motion... has such a high degree of turbulence, it is necessary to refresh and renew it. That's why we started this. I can recommend it to anyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-21.u19	Thank you. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mrs Dik-Faber of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-21.u20	Mr. Chairman. We had a long debate with the Minister yesterday. However, the subject is so interesting that we did not really have enough in almost four hours. So we're definitely going to talk about that even further. It'll all come after the recess. In this VAO we would focus on the SDE+. We talked about this in detail yesterday. We're gonna phase out the coal power plants. I think that is an important step after the climate agreement that has been concluded. It is an important step to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and make a real transition to renewable energy. The Christian Union has never been in favour of subsidising biomass resources. Now that we are awaiting the ibo and research into phasing out coal power stations, let us make it a step in the right direction with subsidies. That is why I have Mrs Van Tongeren's motion on item No. 372 I will certainly sign the motion of the PvdA and GroenLinks on this point, the motion in part No. 376, support. I also have Mrs Van Tongeren's motion on item No. 374 on the suspension of subsidies to CO storage. This is also the case in the context of research into the phase-out of coal plants. For the record, I don't have a motion of my own today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-21.u21	Relieved. Mrs Mulder has another question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-21.u22	Mrs Dik-Faber has now made it quite clear that she has always said that she wants to be completely zero in biomass. I do not recall very clearly that she said so clearly at the time of the conclusion of the Economic and Social Committee energy agreement. I've got the impression that she's been thinking about the ride: well, maybe that's money we should spend in a different way. Has she really said at the time of the conclusion of the Economic and Social Committee energy agreement that we do not agree with this whole section?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-21.u23	I remember when we said at the time of the energy agreement that it was a step in the right direction and that it is a gain that so many different parties have reached an agreement, but that we have some comments on the scale of the steps and also on a number of measures. I must confess that I do not know the energy agreement as well as what measures we are criticising. However, I do not recall that the Christian Union has ever said that subsidising biomass is also a good measure. We never embraced that. The Christian Union has always said: if you want to achieve biomass, do so with an obligation and do not pay it now. I remember having debates here...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-21.u24	This is going to be very similar to yesterday's debate. I followed it. Do you have a final question, Mrs Mulder?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-21.u25	I have the feeling that the Christian Union Group has moved here. It's okay. It says, however, that the Economic and Social Committee agreement on energy is very much a cafeteria model.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-21.u26	I didn't move. I'm really sure. We have had discussions on this at a very early stage after the energy agreement was concluded. I remember Paul Jansen, MP for the SP, saying very strikingly: this is just subsidising fire.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-21.u27	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-21.u28	The Christian Union may not have used those words, but it is precisely the essence of what is at stake here. We're not gonna spend $4 billion on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-21.u29	I'm suspending for 30 seconds, as the Minister has requested. Count in quietly. Then we're gonna listen to the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-21.u30	We're two seconds late. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-21.u31	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin with Mr Vos' comment. He said we're behind on the energy deal. I can't confirm that. The Energy Agreement contains five benchmarks for the Security Committee: 14% renewable energy by 2020, 16% in 2023, 100 petajoule savings, 1.5% energy savings per year and 15,000 new jobs per year in the renewable energy sector. Today, I met with various parties that have jointly concluded the energy agreement. We'll wait and see what Mr. Nijpels will come up with soon. I would not be surprised if the parties came to the conclusion that we are going to achieve all the objectives and that we are on the road to realising what we all think is important. So we are not lagging behind the energy agreement. I know that I do not disappoint Mr Vos, but that I reassure him. I am pleased to be able to reassure him on that point. I've received a contribution from six spokesmen. I shall begin with Mrs Van Tongeren, who has tabled a motion on part No. submitted 372 for decision-making on biomass. The question is whether we are going to house biomass at the SDE+ in the coming year, as we planned. She pleads for postponement. The same goes for Mr Vos in his motion in respect of item No. 376. That is why I am going to deal with both motions at the same time. What are we talking about in biomass? Renewable energy is something you don't make up, but only use. Plants extract CO from the air. Then, when you turn those plants up, you're heating up something that's sustainable and renewable. New plants and trees are growing again, which you can devoid of again. That way you can make use of something that is renewable. This is part of the concept of sustainable energy. We did not think of this in the Netherlands, but the European Commission came up with this in a European directive. We have the ambition to deliver 20% to 30% of what coal plants need in the form of biomass. Then you will have considerably less CO emissions from such a coal power plant on balance. We also have the ambition to link CCS, CO storage, to this. We do that first with a large-scale demonstration project and then if we can on a larger scale. That is what we advocate in the case of biomass. Biomass is an important part of the energy agreement. We have agreed on this and set out exactly what requirements that biomass should meet. It must be sustainable biomass. You don't have to cut down primordial forests and then set them up, but trees that grow and replant in the same place after the hood. Those are terms we made. Moreover, we have created a very separate system to control all of this. We are both with the criteria we set and with the control predecessors around the world. There isn't a single country that's already doing it that way. I think we are making very responsible use of the biomass option. We have agreed that we will not co-incinerate more than 25 petajoules of biomass in coal plants. That 25 petajoule accounts for about 1.2% of renewable energy. If this biomass is not poisoned, we will lose 1.2% of renewable energy and we will not achieve the 2020 and 2023 targets. The motion asks for an eight-year delay in making commitments to coal plants that are going to use biomass to run their power station more sustainably. They then no longer use only coal, but a combination of coal and biomass. Let's say we're gonna postpone it. The only meaning of delay is that you open the possibility of adjustment, that you anticipate on set. Otherwise, there's no point in delay. Adjusting means that we will not achieve that 14% of renewable energy by 2020, nor will we achieve that 16% by 2023. I don't have the freedom to make a movement in that direction. I have committed myself politically to achieving that 14% and that 16%. I have also committed myself to society, in the energy agreement. I want to keep the political agreements, just like the social ones. I don't want a delay to be an override. I do not want us to open up the possibility of setting up as something that can be decided soon. I want us to do what we decided earlier, namely to achieve renewable energy. For this reason, I strongly advise against both motions, so the motion in part No. 372 and the motion in part No. 376.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-21.u32	I'm disappointed in the Minister. If there are investigations during gas extraction or there is a court ruling, the Minister is always prepared to postpone a decision on the reduction of gas extraction until the results of the investigations are there. In this case, the investigation may indicate that we are closing down the coal plants. The government must also carry out a motion on the phasing out of coal power stations. And then we would now decide to subsidise for eight years, for a sum of around 4 billion, for something on which research might indicate that we should get rid of it? In this case, why can't the Minister postpone many months, for example in the case of gas extraction in Groningen?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-21.u33	I'm not the one postponing with regard to the gas extraction in Groningen. I'm the one who halves gas extraction in Groningen in a three-year period. In this case, I am the one who ensures that we achieve the objectives of the coalition agreement and the energy agreement. An important part of these objectives is that 1.2% biomass. We have talked very well about this in Europe. This is laid down in a directive which the Netherlands too has to comply with. It says 14% by 2020 and part of it can be devoid of biomass. That's what that directive says. In the coalition agreement we confirmed that agreement once again. For the years 2020 and 2023, this was also reflected in the Energy Agreement. In this context, we have also agreed in great detail on the requirements to be met by biomass, on how to control the requirements and on the closure of half of the ten coal-fired power stations. We need all five others to achieve this 25 petajoule biomass. Delay must have a ratio. The only ratio of this delay is to open up perspective on adjustment. So you're offering room for adjustment. Adjusting biomass by-products means that I do not make it up to 14% and 16%. I'm not prepared to do anything to make it up to 14% and 16%. I'll warn the Room. What if we did this to each other? That 1.2% will not be reached. So the targets are not being met. What possibility do we have for other parties who also object to things, such as windmills on land or manure fermentation, to maintain that there are all kinds of parties who have reservations about their complying with their part of the agreements if we ourselves take a building block out of the energy agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-21.u34	The next VAO is due to begin in 30 seconds. This was a very long answer. You'll have long questions. Yesterday you discussed this in detail, and in the new year you will often discuss it. This is a VAO. An urgent opinion: short questions and short answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-21.u35	The cabinet deliberately chose what was seen as the cheapest option at the time. For biomass, the Minister has created a new category in the SDE. This was not in the original agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-21.u36	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-21.u37	I would once again urge the Minister to act in the spirit of the coal phase-out, to look at this and to postpone it. This is a rather fundamental matter. I am sorry, Mr President, normally I understand that we have to be quick, but if we do not do this, this will be allocated to those coal plants and it will be about 4 billion. So I ask the Minister again what is so unlikelyly important that it should be now and that it really cannot be postponed for two or three months until that investigation has been carried out and discussed with the Chamber. Then we still have choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-21.u38	Biomass is included in the European directive as part of what you can do to achieve the renewable energy objective. Biomass is explicitly further developed in the energy agreement. That's not a figment of mine. That's all in there. I am going to use that to achieve those objectives. I do not quite understand what Mrs Van Tongeren is asking me to do, but it had something to do with coal-fired power stations and the decision-making that is yet to be taken, as she said. I would like to act in the spirit and letter of the agreements we made in the coalition agreement and in the energy agreement. It sets out the objectives, the percentages of renewable energy that we are going to achieve. I have serious objections to canceling those appointments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-21.u39	Firstly, I would like to say that I am very pleased with the Minister's statement that we are once again on track with the energy agreement. I do not know him any different than someone who constantly monitors and monitors that, but nevertheless compliments him for that. However, I would like to point out that the judge has given a ruling and that he has said that we need to reduce CO emissions from 17% to 25% by 2020. The cabinet has said that it will naturally listen to the judge, as every citizen in the Netherlands must, and that it will comply with that ruling. My question to the Minister is: how are we going to apply this CO reduction?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-21.u40	I know that if we start linking everything together, the end result will be that we postpone the matter and complicate it and then we get further away from our goal. I know that we agreed in the government agreement and in the energy agreement to achieve 14% and 16% of renewable energy, to achieve 1.5% of energy savings per year and to achieve 100 petajoule additional energy savings to create 15,000 jobs per year. These are all excellent agreements, which are very much in line with what the Supreme Court intended, what is meant by the agreements made in Paris last week and what is meant by an overwhelming majority in the Chamber saying: we want to make a good contribution to solving the global climate problem. I am convinced that it will be very helpful if we stick to the agreements we have made. If we are going to attract those agreements ourselves, and if we are going to get some of them out of it, then I do not know how to hold the others back. I think that's really dangerous. In my opinion, this is contrary to the political and social commitments that have been made. I also find it very risky in view of the objectives that we all want to achieve.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-21.u41	Clear. Could you respond briefly and pointically, Mr Vos?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-21.u42	I understand it's a complex world, but there's a court ruling and there are three motions from this Chamber. I note that almost all the political groups in the Chamber, namely SP, D66, GroenLinks, Labour Party and even PVV, are asking for this. The Minister warned us, but we said to the Minister: pay attention, because we do not see it as such. That's why the motions are there now. I would therefore like to ask the Minister once again to look very closely at it and to think about it in the Christmastreces.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-21.u43	That's not a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-21.u44	I looked into it. The judge's ruling is important. We're gonna do it. At the same time, we're appealing against that judge's ruling. I think that motions are very important, but I also think that the coalition agreement is very important. That's the basis for the political work in this house. I also think that a European directive is very important. We have a duty to implement it and then to live up to it. I also consider the energy agreement to be very important. We have made a long-term agreement on energy with 47 parties in the country. If we remove a stone from it after two years on an important part of it, it is more than that; we really remove an important part of the energy agreement, it is contrary to the coal agreement, to the directive and to the energy agreement. I have a serious objection to that. That's why I strongly discouraged these motions. Mrs Van Tongeren also has the motion in part No. 373 submitted. She says that a lot of money remains on the shelf at the SDE+ and thinks that a fund should be set up to save the money for the good cause, namely renewable energy. However, we already have a fund. That fund allows us to transfer that money to the next year if there is any money left in a given year that we cannot yet spend on renewable energy. In that next year, we will be able to spend it on renewable energy. So that fund's already there. Furthermore, the delay is mainly due to the period for the SDE+ scheme, when the old scheme was still in force. We are trying to realise the projects to be carried out through the scheme. If there is a delay in projects, we can transfer the money, and if projects fail, we can replace new projects. There is therefore no need to set up a fund, as Mrs Van Tongeren proposes. We already have a fund that is functional. Moreover, if projects are very much delayed or even threatened to fall away, we have the possibility of replacing them with other projects. I therefore advise against the motion in part No. 373.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-21.u45	Mrs Van Tongeren, you have a short, pointy question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-21.u46	Is it true that these funds formally go back to the general funds if there is a change in the cabinet? Or are they automatically destined for renewable energy?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-21.u47	We have the opportunity to transfer money from one financial year to another. We can always decide, regardless of whether there is a change of cabinet, to stop doing so. Even if you have a fund, you can decide to cancel that fund and spend it in a different way. You can do all that stuff. However, we know with each other that we have set long-term targets for renewable energy. We are working on this on a very broad basis and so far we have been successful, at least until today. Now we're really gonna get a stone out of the house that we've been successfully working on so far. Until today, I had no reason to think that this kind of thing was gonna happen. We have a fund and a well-functioning scheme. So there really is no reason to set up another fund. Mrs Van Tongeren and Mrs Dik-Faber have delighted us with the motion in part No. 374. This motion calls on the government to suspend the grant of CCS subsidies to coal power stations. For years we have been working on the reception of CO via CCS, because we are convinced that the collection of CO and its storage would be a good thing if we wanted to maintain employment in the energy-intensive industry in the Netherlands and reduce CO emissions from coal plants. Furthermore, it is possible not only to store CO, but also to re-use it in the greenhouses in the Westland. For years we have been working on the ROAD project in Rotterdam, which involves a large part of the CO emissions from one of the plants being captured and then stored underground. We have been working for years to achieve this ROAD project, the only large-scale CCS demonstration project across Europe. The municipality of Rotterdam is working hard on this and two companies, both willing to invest 50 million euros, are working hard on it. The Netherlands is spending EUR 150 million, the European Commission is spending EUR 180 million, Germany and Norway are also spending money and France is considering putting money into it. We are now almost ready to come forward with a proposal early next year to implement that project, and now I have a motion from Mrs Van Tongeren and Mrs Dik-Faber to postpone it. I think we absolutely should not do this. The motion in part No. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). In the motion-Agnes Mulder in part No. 375 the government is invited to come forward in January with a financial instrument to stimulate energy saving in energy-intensive industries. I can reassure Mrs Mulder, because that motion is not necessary. I have talked about this today with the parties that have concluded the energy agreement. We have looked at how we can ensure that what has been agreed for the energy-intensive industry, with which we make one-on-one agreements, will also be achieved. That's why we agreed on a number of things. That starts with companies coming up with proposals themselves. We're gonna see for ourselves where we can provide support from the Ministry. Appointments in the spirit of Mrs Mulder's motion have already been made today. That is why I can suggest to Mrs Mulder that we withdraw this motion or hold it until she can assess the results of our work.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-21.u48	Before I give the floor to Mrs Mulder for an interruption, I say that Jan de Niet is leaving the Chamber now. He retires after 42 years. A piece of parliamentary history is about to close the door behind it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-21.u49	We're gonna miss him. He used to walk around here with a big smile. It's really nice that he was always working here and running into him. I thank the Minister for the commitment. We had the debate yesterday. I didn't know he was talking to the people today. It's nice he's doing the motion. I think it's a good thing I'm holding the motion so I can see what's coming out of it. January is soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-21.u50	At the request of Mrs Agnes Mulder, I propose her motion (30196, No. 375). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-21.u51	Mrs Mulder would like to know about the ISDE scheme. We are going to set up this scheme to subsidise small-scale investments by households in equipment that reduces the need for energy, such as heat pumps. The aim is to stimulate the application of these possibilities, which will enable us to make a significant contribution to the objectives of the energy agreement. I already have the Chamber on October 9th last. general information about the scheme in the offer letter to the National Energy Exploratory 2015. In the meantime, I'm one step further. Last Tuesday, I published the entire scheme in the Official Journal. This is also available on RP.nl. Any information Mrs Mulder wants, she can get that way. I would be offended if I had to offer her to print it out and give it to her, because she is quite capable of doing so herself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-21.u52	We're still missing the Smaling motion in part number. 377.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-21.u53	That's right. I understand that Mr Smaling is also spokesperson for sport, because he asks me in his motion for a resolution in the formulation of the SDE+ grant framework, which will amount to 8 billion next year, plus 5 billion for wind at sea; a total of 13 billion per year, to consider which sectors of sport provide the most added value in terms of sustainability, CO emission reduction and energy saving. The trick of the SDE+ scheme is that we do not do this. In that scheme we do not say: you have to do manure fermentation, you have to do biomass, you have to do this and that. We are making money available for renewable energy. Anyone who can produce this renewable energy cheapest and meets the conditions will receive the subsidy. For the short term, for 2020 and 2023, we have targets that we need to meet. That is why we have set aside a few parts of the production of renewable energy, so that at least we can achieve the necessary short-term gains there. However, the aim of the scheme is precisely to ensure that all different technologies compete with each other. For this reason, I do not think it is right to do what is stated in Mr Smaling's motion. That's why I don't recommend this one. I have no response to what Mr Bosman has said because what he has said is in line with the way I see it. I'm experiencing it as support. I also see it as support that Mrs Dik-Faber did not make a motion herself this time. I really like being able to go through that one more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-21.u54	That's a scoop for all of us!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-21.u55	I saw the Minister was busy looking for something. I think he just overlooked my question about fracking in Saaksum.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-21.u56	My apologies: I did lose a note. Fracking is part of our natural gas production. We've been doing that for decades, on a very small scale. If you want to continue the production of natural gas, you have to frack it every once in a while. I'm not gonna order you to stop fracking. I have said a number of things to the Chamber about this. I also heard what Mrs Mulder said by NAM. I believe that in the normal system of natural gas production all kinds of things have already been arranged and done. I said what I had to notice specifically about some locations and research. But I'm not prepared to make a statement to suspend the fracking. I do not think this is in the interest of energy supply in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-21.u57	That is, of course, a very disappointing answer, especially for the people of Saaksum. Soon, the Mining Act will be dealt with. In addition, we will try to find a majority in the Chamber to settle matters.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-21.u58	Today we are voting on the motions. Thank you to the Minister for his presence.
