ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u1	I would like to welcome all those present in the Chamber, in particular the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. To set a good example for re-use of public sector information, I start my contribution with some re-used stuff. The Minister, I read on Twitter, has a relaxed day program. So I thought, let's raise the bar this afternoon and give up a riddle. I challenge the Minister to find out who wrote the original and for what. "The need for better consultation between government and citizens has become topical, as changes in governance and communication in our society have occurred at an accelerated pace over the last few decades." I'll give you a tip of the veil: the quote comes from the book I have here. Who was the author of this book? What happened to those meaningful conclusions of the time? I'll give you a second clue: that was about 40 years ago. What's happened since then? Why are these words still so insanely topical? If the Minister recommends this, we can put a small price on it, such as an extra cup of coffee, through the messenger service. What does the Minister actually think of those words that were written at the time? Aren't they just true in spite of the time lag? Would it not just be a statement in that context to include the right to re-use as a general provision in the law, not only in fact, but also in order to do justice to the re-use and thus introduce this aspect? Why is this point of re-use not legally enshrined in the law? If the Minister is really in favour of an open government and open data, why does he not see any added value in that at the moment? On the one hand, the Minister sees disclosure of public sector information and on the other hand, its use is completely separate and he makes a re-use of public sector information law, which is going to exist alongside the Public Administration Act. There is also consistency with the Archive Act. Where this minister is trying to reduce the regulatory burden, I ask you whether this does not give you some more rules. The government forest through which interested people have to struggle may become less transparent. Does that trip to the target get easier? What is needed is a hold, a path that leads to an open government, where access to and use of public sector information is truly a right. In order to take a step forward, I tabled an amendment together with GroenLinks to shorten the decision-making period for re-use requests to two weeks. Because if you want to re-use information, you have it faster. This is good for journalists who want information, it is good for entrepreneurs and app developers who want to respond to social needs. According to the Minister, it is mostly information that is already public, so that information should be delivered much faster. I'd like an appreciation from the Minister of that proposal. Let's talk about the open data portal. It also helps when institutions entrusted with a public task publish information and data from already processed requests structurally online, for example on data.publicity.nl. Their use is not yet optimal. This can be done so much better, as the Dutch School of Public Administration and Utrecht University's research into open data also shows. This shows that over 40% of respondents say their organisation has opened up 0 to 10 datasets. A small group is between 10 and 50 datasets. Again around 40% have offered more than 50 datasets as open data. Insight, workability, findability and comprehensibility are not so high yet. In other words, the quality of the user leaves something to be desired. Research also shows that positive effects are seen on the economy, public debate and tackling societal problems. Does the Minister see the added value of this? Is he prepared to take care of this? In the amendments to other laws I found a well-hidden exception for the Trade Register. As one of the few, it will be allowed to charge more than marginal costs for the re-use of data. The costs for roughly the band may then be increased by a reasonable return on investment, all on the basis of objective, transparent and verifiable criteria. Since this is rather vague, I have a few questions for the Minister. How much is the Trade Register, so not the Chamber of Commerce, exactly? What amounts will be charged later? Are those euros, dozens of euros or more? Who's to say it's really about marginal costs? How is the Minister going to follow that up to see if a General Administrative Measure is needed in this respect?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u3	I heard Mr Schouw mention the initiative bill he submitted to the Chamber together with Mrs Voortman. How does this bill relate to this initiative proposal? Actually, I'm curious about that. Is there going to be another change? At some point, of course, we have to fight each other and know what we are talking about when Mr Schouw's and Mrs Voortman's legislative proposals are in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u4	We'll do everything we can to keep that in sync. That is also apparent from the amendments we have tabled on this point. We must, however, ensure that the disclosure of information and the re-use of information coincide. We, as Chambers, are there for that, too. That is why I asked the Minister whether he agreed that there should be consistency in this. Now it all feels a little twisted.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u5	Mr Schouw expresses, with his body language too, the feeling that I also had when I read this. Here's what I was wondering. If this bill, the bill we are discussing today, is adopted, will it have any consequences for Mr Schouw's and Mrs Voortman's own-initiative proposals, in that they will have to be amended?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u6	With Mrs Voortman's amendment, we are trying to bring an element in our Open Government Act into this. Otherwise, we'll be there ourselves. If we say that it has to go in sync, then of course Mrs Voortman and I will also ensure that this is included in our own initiative law. Maybe we need to change something for that, but I think it is important that all the groups should immediately say that these things really need to be connected like twin Siamese twins.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u7	I would like to go on with that. Of course, we have the initiative law of Mrs Voortman and Mr Schouw. That is the Open Government Act, which the Chamber has already dealt with in the first term. Then we have the Minister's Public Administration Act, which aims to prevent abuse. Now we have the Re-use of Public Sector Information Act. It's a lot of laws for the same thing. I think the Act on Preventing Abuse Wob and the Law on Reusing Public Sector Information were also part of the Initiative Act. It's my preference that we have one law and not three. I see that the Minister is asking the initiators to withdraw provisions on re-use from the initiative legislative proposal. I see three amendments now. Isn't it easier to treat one law? The initiative law of Mrs Voortman and Mr Schouw seems to me to be a good law. If some additional issues were to be dealt with, there could always be an amendment. Why do we now have to deal with three laws, discuss amendments and re-establish a balance? It's a little rubbing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u8	It's definitely sanding. According to the laws of logic, you first try to deal with the umbrella law "GroenLinks" and "D66" legislation. I note very calmly that the cabinet is going its own way on two parts. The way things are going in this Chamber is apparently that we are going to deal with these two separate parts first instead of the dome law. There's not much logic in this. I also think that Mr Van Raak is trying to bring that up here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u9	That's good to know. It is also good to know what internal coordination has been. That does pose a question for the Chamber, because we have started with the initiative law, which Mr Schouw sees as an overarching law or framework law. We have the good use in parliamentary relations that the government is reluctant when there is an initiative law. I note that there are now two laws. I wonder how we, as a Chamber, will proceed with this later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u10	The Chamber is about its own way of working. I can say on this point, on behalf of Mrs Voortman too, that we are ready. If the dome law is scheduled for next Tuesday, we are going to treat it very nicely and go over it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u11	I see this as a call to myself to quickly plan that meeting. I call Mrs Voortman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u12	Mr. Chairman. It is always good to hear that Mr Schouw is ready to deal with one of the laws on which we work together quickly. As far as I'm concerned, so can I. It would be nice if this could happen before his farewell to this Chamber. It is now about the Re-use of Public Sector Information Act, which I understand has also to do with the implementation of a European Directive. An implementation which we have already largely taken into account in our own initiative law. The government has a wealth of valuable information. The government is there for the citizens; the information that rests with the government is, as far as GroenLinks is concerned, from all of us. It is important that this valuable information is as accessible as possible for re-use to anyone who has any use for it. In GroenLinks' view, public sector information should in principle be public property. The creation of information is, after all, funded by the taxpayer. This is also one of the reasons why I, together with Mr Schouw, have tabled the initiative proposal Open Government Act. This own-initiative proposal amends the rules on re-use, in some cases in a better way than the proposal before us by the Minister for the Interior. In the Minister's bill, the decision-making period remains four weeks for reuse as opposed to the two-week period that is maintained in the Open Government Act. As widely argued in the explanatory memorandum and the written round of the Open Government Act, two weeks is a very realistic and reasonable period. This turns out to be already when you look at the deadlines abroad. In this case, as Mr Schouw said, it is even more right because this is information that is already public. At the time, the link with the Penalty Law was chosen and the choice was made to extend the two-week period to four weeks. The moment you let go of that clutch, it makes sense that the time limit is put back from four to two weeks. Leaving the decision-making period unchanged and, at the same time, releasing the linking of the Penalty Law, as announced in the written reply, is therefore inconsistent and creates a imbalance between tackling abuse and promoting transparency. That is why I have tabled an amendment to do something about this. I'm asking the Minister to reflect on this. GroenLinks attaches importance to the inclusion in the legislative proposal of a right to re-use public sector information. In the written reply, the government states that it does not need this. That is where we differ. What exactly is the cabinet's objection to the establishment of this right? As far as GroenLinks is concerned, archives should also be covered by this law. In our view, the choice not to do so is strange, because there is essentially no difference between an archive and other forms of information storage. Is it also true that there will be no protection against abuse of the penalty payment for archives? Does the Minister not think that this is desirable, also in view of his other legislative proposal on this matter? The point in the legislative proposal on which we are by far the most positive is the partial extension of the scope to semi-public institutions. In fact, semi-public institutions also have a social responsibility when it comes to sharing information. Can the Minister once again stress the importance of this? I'm rounding up. GroenLinks supports most of the improvements made by this law to the rules for the re-use of public sector information. However, legislation can still be strengthened. To help the Minister, I have tabled a number of amendments together with Mr Schouw in line with what I have just said about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u13	Mr. Chairman. The playing field for this debate is limited. These are binding European regulations that need to be transposed into Dutch legislation. The debate is not about whether or not public information is public; this is regulated by the Public Administration Act. The bill we are discussing today is actually intended to stimulate the re-use of public sector information and to unlock creativity. Information that the government collects should not remain on the shelf interest-free. I do have a number of questions about the implementation of this bill. My first question concerns the extension of the directive to include museums, libraries and archives. The CDA Group asked questions about this in the written round. These institutions themselves need to tap into more and more funding flows by reducing subsidies. Is this complicated by the present bill? In the note following the report, the Minister writes that the financial and other consequences for museums and libraries are difficult to assess. He acknowledges, however, that most small heritage institutions are not yet sufficiently equipped for this bill. What steps has the Minister taken to ensure that the sector is well prepared? How does the Minister keep an eye on the financial and other consequences of this bill? Does he intend to bring the bill into force immediately or should steps be taken? The CDA Group sees that the bill offers opportunities, but how will it work in practice? I have looked again at the data portal of the Dutch government in preparation for this debate. The data requests are quite different. From the waste calendar of the municipality of Oost Gelre to the funding of care in the years between 1998 and 2014. From the question: when do I have to take out the garbage can, to the question: what subject do I choose for my thesis? How will the Minister assess whether the law meets the expectations? When does the Minister consider that the re-use of public sector information is successful? When does the Minister consider that additional measures are needed to remove obstacles? The CDA Group also has questions about the responsibility for the completeness and accuracy of the information. The Minister quite rightly writes in the note following the report: "It is possible that the information is placed in a different context by the re-user, because the product gives a distorted image. The responsibility for the final product lies not with the body responsible for a public task which has made the information available but with the re-user." Does this mean, in other words: if it rains that it pours while Buienradar has predicted a sunshine, do you have to be at Buienradar and not at the KNMI? It is also a good thing that the Minister explicitly states that the public authorities are always obliged to provide transparency and to ensure the correct and complete provision of information. The Minister has not yet responded clearly to the possibility that there may be confusion among citizens about the sender of information. It would be good if the parties that enrich public sector information indicated that they do not do so on behalf of or on behalf of the government. They should also indicate how fully they operate in re-use and what they themselves add to the information. After all, an active market player soon gets higher in Google's rankings and will overwhelm the government's own neutral offer. How does the Minister see this in relation to trust in public sector information? What about European institutions themselves? In the note following the report, the Minister states that the principles set out in the Directive for the Member States also apply to the EU institutions. Has the directive also been evaluated for the European institutions themselves? Does the amending directive also have implications for the European institutions? In this area, too, the CDA Group expects an active attitude from this minister. Finally, I would like to make a few political comments. Yesterday, the Chamber voted on a motion on the subject of opening up the documents relating to the post-levy that went to Brussels. I know that the minister is in a mess with a investigative journalist about opening up the source code of the mGBA. I myself have asked several times for a part of this government to get the source code of the Social Insurance Bank system. I know that this law does not see fit to do so, but nevertheless, in view of this debate on the re-use of public sector information, the discussion about a draft law on open government, and because we are constantly talking about openness of public sector information, I think that this government should take itself seriously and make that information available. Nothing stands in the way of this openness and yet the government refuses again and again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u14	Mr Van Raak has indicated that he does not have any further questions. The next speaker will be Mr Veldman of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u15	Mr. Chairman. The Re-use of Public Sector Information Act actually regulates nothing more or less than the implementation of the European Directive of June 2013 on the re-use of Public Sector Information. Previously, we included these rules in the Public Administration Act. Now we place it in a separate law, the Re-use of Public Sector Information Act. The VVD supports the choice to regulate it this way. It is not desirable to maintain an increasingly complex chapter in the WOB that does not match the rest of the WOB. In addition, the starting point of the WOB, regulating access to public sector information, is different from the starting point of the re-use of already public public sector information. Re-use of public sector information is good. Re-use can lead to new investment by industry. Research has shown that the market for the re-use of public sector information within the United States is 11 times larger than in Europe. You'll hear it right: 11 times bigger. In Europe this market has an annual size of around 68 billion, while in the United States it has an annual size of 750 billion. So hundreds of millions of euros can also be earned in the Netherlands with the commercial re-use of available information. This will benefit the Dutch economy. It's good for our jobs. The law regulates the obligation to access information, but a re-user needs more than that. The awareness, findability, availability, reliability and usability of data are also important. Despite the fact that data are legally accessible, they can hardly be accessible from a practical point of view. Information can only be properly reused if it is known, accessible and usable. Where can I get the information? Can the information be available and, if so, under what conditions? Is the information useful? This concerns, for example, the level of aggregation, the standard used and the accuracy and completeness of the information. Only if these conditions are met will a user be able to re-use the information, for example as part of an added value service he wishes to market. Beautiful examples of reuse are already available. Buienradar.nl is probably the most famous, but the site 10000schools.nl also exists. It allows parents to find a suitable school for their child. And what about an app "threshold free"? Students develop media technology via open data a mobile web app that allows wheelchair users to plan a wheelchair-free route. Many products can therefore be produced thanks to information already collected and made available by the government. Not only with the government, but also with municipalities there is a huge amount of data. Many of these data are now on protected servers, on computers at the city hall or somewhere on an external hard drive. All these data are about the municipality and its residents, from well lids to empty buildings, from parking spaces to traffic flows, to indices of sense of security. These data are available, but they are often not accessible to the re-user. It is therefore important that government data are made available findable and usable. There are only concerns about this. The Trend Reports open data of the General Court of Auditors of both 2014 and 2015 outline the picture of a government that is making little progress actively offering public sector information that can be used through open data systems. In April 2014, the Chamber asked the Minister for a response to the first Trend Report. In September 2014, the Minister announced that he needed more time. It is now June 2015. There didn't seem to be a response. "What's the wait?', I actually wanted to ask the Minister, but what does my surprise suggest? An hour and a half before this debate there is a letter from the Minister. What's with the timing? I read the letter quickly, but I don't think the answers I was hoping for are in it yet. What has the Minister done in concrete terms with the recommendations in the 2014 Trend Report? The VVD wants to work harder on it and to bring more into line in all kinds of developments that are taking place now. In response to parliamentary questions, the Minister says that it is okay for different ministries to use their own website to publish available datasets. Why is the Minister okay with that? Isn't it much better to do this centrally, via the sitedata.overheid.nl? Snapping isn't gonna help us find it, is it? Why are there only nineteen municipalities connected to data.government.nl? The VVD Group wants to speed up the provision of information through open data systems. I can see from the Open Government Action Plan that this minister has been working since 2013. The results are lean when I read the Trend Reports of the General Court. Maybe it's good to set a deadline. As far as the VVD is concerned, this Minister will be ready to actively disclose data and have a national information infrastructure available at the end of 2016, as the General Court also outlines. I am considering tabling a motion for a resolution, but I would like to get a response from the Minister first. I'm rounding up. The VVD can agree to the present bill, but wants meters to be made available in the provision of government data. We need to facilitate the re-use of public sector information. Available information must be known, accessible and usable. This challenge is faced by the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u16	Mr Veldman has an interesting story. Usually the VVD is for a very small government, but now it sees a lot of opportunities for entrepreneurs to make a lot of money with public sector information. Mr Veldman also makes many demands on the way in which the government should make them available. The law states that marginal costs may be calculated, which preferably cost as little as possible and that costs are minimised. We also know that all kinds of governments, especially cultural institutions and certainly small cultural institutions, must make all kinds of investments. Does Mr Veldman agree with me that the provision of this information should be cost-effective, otherwise we will have the strange situation that we are all paying taxes for the generation of government data and it will be borne by those same taxpayers if they want to earn money from it? I don't think that's a good starting point for the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u17	Mr Van Raak husselt mixed up a number of good principles. That doesn't make it any clearer. The fact that you want to get available government information re-used properly doesn't mean anything about the size of the government. Of course, we are in favour of a small government, but that small government is still producing a lot of data that are now stuck somewhere and not unlocked. We would like that data to be unlocked, because we can see that there is a market for a lot of companies. Look at all the apps that are being developed to use all the information that the government already has in a good way. This leads to employment. If you pass it on, it will ultimately generate tax revenues, which we may be able to reduce or improve a number of other things, which Mr Van Raak might also appeal to. So I'm not arguing for a bigger government. I advocate that, with regard to all the information that the government has, so that it has already collected and is available, we unlock availability in a good and adequate way so that companies can make use of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u18	We're all in agreement on that. Long live the real entrepreneurs!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u19	That's good!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u20	Yeah, but I still have the next problem. The law states that only marginal costs can be calculated. I am curious to see what the Minister means by that, but I think that is marginal. However, institutions and organisations, such as cultural institutions, certainly smaller cultural institutions, must all start to incur costs. So can we agree here that it is not going to cost the taxpayer extra money when an entrepreneur starts asking for all kinds of information and that it must always be cost-effective?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u21	In my view, the starting point of the law is, in my view, also what is meant by marginal debt securities that we are going to prevent the government from making a profit on information that it already has. That is why, in my view, Europe revised the 2002 or 2003 directive in 2013, because there are apparently governments in the Netherlands and outside the Netherlands but within Europe trying to make a profit on information that is already there. That is what the European directive does, and that is what is being implemented in this law so that we do not do so here, with two or three exceptions. For the rest, we intend to do it as cheaply as possible for the re-user. So don't make a profit.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u22	So it's cost-effective.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u23	Don't make a profit.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u24	Don't make a profit. Can I take that as cost-covering?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u25	You can read it in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u26	Not making a profit can mean making a loss, I'll just stand there for a moment. So is it cost-covering or non-cost-covering?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u27	If you read it like that, I'll say it's cost-effective. What matters to me is that there's no profit to be made. In my view, it is only logical that where information is offered reusable, it should not cost the government money to offer it. I think that's what the law says with so many words.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u28	I share Mr Veldman's warm support for the disclosure of public sector information. I very much agree with that. This legislative proposal also provides for a partial extension of the scope to semi-public institutions. However, Mr Veldman did not say anything about this. So I assume the VVD believes that that information should also be disclosed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u29	That's right. You're right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u30	That's what I thought. I'm pleased with this confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u31	I was just listening to Mr Van Raak when it was about whether or not cost security. In my opinion, however, marginal costs are something other than cost-covering. If you are going to define "cost-covering" as not only the costs of turning the copy, but also the costs of the person who received the request, who assessed it and sent it to the reproduction department, then you are no longer talking about marginal costs. So I'd like some clarification on this part.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u32	That is why I also said that the government is not supposed to make a profit on it. I have spoken about the information that the government has available, especially the large open data. I am not talking so much about a copy where the municipality is going to charge for that copy. It's really about the metadata that the government has available, which I think should be unlocked. This is now happening too little, in too many different places, so fragmented, and in a way that users/reusers cannot find that information and therefore cannot write a business case on it to create employment. Because that's where I want to go.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u33	It's words that sound like a clock but aren't an answer to my question. My question to the representative of the VVD is whether he agrees with me that marginal costs are not the same as cost-covering, because that gives room for stopping everything and still a little below the rate at which you no longer have marginal costs at some point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u34	I think this is a bit of a semantic discussion about what's marginal, how you're going to explain this, what's cost-covering, and if you go one step further, which is profitable. I don't think that's what I started with, too. The government isn't supposed to make a profit on information that she already has, on information that we've gathered together as a government. As a government, we operate through tax revenues. That's what I reported. It is not intended that the government should profit from information it has already collected at the expense of the citizen. We are already doing this through tax revenues, because we are paying our officials, among other things.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u35	I always find the "cost calculation" block very interesting. You can also take another flight route by choosing whether you only charge the direct costs or all indirect costs to the marginal costs. Is it clear to the VVD spokesperson what the costs are? Is it, in particular, the direct costs or is it the direct and indirect costs to be taken into account?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u36	As the law says, I think it's about direct costs. As soon as you include all kinds of indirect costs, you assume that the government will process information itself, and that is not the intention. The law also does not rely on editing information, so that you can provide processed information to a re-user. It's about the flat data, the flat information that's public and you can reuse. If we are going to rework all kinds of datasets to a particular product, we are disrupting the market. It concerns the flat sets of data, which must of course be machine-readable and standardised. Of course, you have to do that and I think that is what is happening in a number of departments. My only observation is that this is now happening fragmentedly and I want us to do this in a better way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u37	I think it is a good thing that the Minister should be laying the ultimate egg on that. I can imagine for myself that this is a matter of direct costs. Through the spokesperson of the VVD, I would ask the Minister to explain this further. Where do the direct costs start and where do they end up?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u38	I think that would be a good question to ask the Minister through me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u39	Mr. Chairman. As the last speaker, I have already heard most of the topics. I will try to put forward the most important points for the PvdA, but unfortunately I will not be able to avoid repeating myself from time to time. The fact that I have long urged the Minister to make more work on open data, I think he notices with some regularity. I really believe that data collected by or on behalf of the government can be of great value to that same government, too. The fact that this idea lives not only with me, but also with the General Court of Auditors and Saskia Stuiveling in particular strengthens me in the idea that we are on the right track. It is much more than just the implementation of policy; society can also use this data to make smarter choices, to be better informed, to find the way, in short: to make life easier and more enjoyable. That is why I also urge that the available data be made available via the Internet and open licences, so that they can then be freely processed and reused. That's where the government's making progress, but it's not going fast enough for me. There are still data files not available because links, for example, do not work. That's very clumsy and it turns out it's hard to eliminate. In addition, there are ministries that are still on a large pile of data that they do not seem to fully know how to make it publicly available. For that, the legal framework, which, in fact, already existed, is a nice push in the back, but I am concerned about the result, about that portal with open data. Data.overheid.nl currently contains 6.492 datasets. I read that 2.724 have an open licence and 3.768 have another licence. I'd like to hear from the Minister what the difference is. Can these be easily edited? What is the difference between the open-license datasets and the datasets with another license? What's the difference? I also have some questions about the deadlines and costs of delivery. My ideal would be that there is a direct provision for open data. In addition, a lot of information is directly available and therefore in principle also directly available. What is now being done to avoid the maximum time limit of eight weeks as often as possible? In the case of small organisations, I can still imagine this deadline, but often it seems really unnecessary to me. I would like to receive a response from the Minister. The Land Registry, the Chamber of Commerce, the RDW and cultural institutions may charge more costs than only marginal costs for provision because they depend on the provision of data for their income. However, they are public databases, for which access should be as large as possible. Needless to say, high costs lead to less social benefit. I would like to hear from the Minister what prospects for open data he sees here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u40	Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by saying that the Freedom Party still has the last word, but I understand that there is one last speaker. That'll keep it exciting. In substance, I agree with Mr Van Raak's contribution. However, I would like to make a few small points. In any case, I have a question as to why this law exists. We just have the WOB. There is already a lot of work to be done in this area. You can think about tightening up that law, and some of you do. In any case, the WOB exists and functions as well. I understand that the answer to my question is that it has to be Brussels, so we are going to do it again. I think that is yet another violation of democracy. Last week we talked about the energy label, which nobody in the Chamber wants to do; but we are doing it anyway, because Brussels has to do it. I'm just gonna take a look at it. The starting point must of course be that public sector information is public. It is good that this information is made available, but it must be done at the lowest possible cost. I will leave it to the middle to decide whether that is marginal cost or whether we are calculating the eBid-like cost. The papers the minister sent us talk about new products. I find that interesting. We have already discussed costs in the interrupting debate. You take something and you pay something for it. You might wonder how much you'll have to pay. Are you paying for the photocopys or for copying the dataset? This is interesting food for MBAs or people who have studied business administration. I don't want to talk about that branch of sports. In any case, the datasets go over the fence at a certain amount and the person who buys this information then does something with it. I find the latter much more interesting than the cost. So how does it go on? Let me give you an example. Bienradar acquires something that belongs to the government, which the taxpayer has paid for. Suppose Buienradar pays €100 for it and then earns $10 million, will the taxpayers get any of that back? Are we saying that the marginal costs have been met and that this is the end of the bargain, or are we going to negotiate smartly and is the Minister taking 10% of the profits? Or says Buienradar: ho ho, the taxpayer has already paid, we have met the marginal costs for the photocopies and the datasets? How's the proceeds coming along? I find that an interesting and very relevant question, because data is very interesting for a lot of parties. Think of all the information collected by the municipalities or clubs around it, such as the UWVs. They know a lot about their clients, for example their level of education. Think also of all the clubs that work in the field of care. They know a lot too. I am not referring so much to privacy-sensitive information. It is almost criminal to sell that Jantje or Pietje has or is prone to a certain disease, but rather to link up all kinds of files, which are then sold. With that you can make a tremendous amount of money; every marketing man almost kills for that. What happens to that? Are there any nice deals made with such organizations and can we, after some people have made a lot of money from them, get something back from them? I understand that this law extends to the semi-public institutions. Museums, libraries and archives are mentioned. Does the law also apply to related semi-public institutions such as housing corporations or public service broadcasting? The programme data is a dossier that has been under discussion for 25 years. There are media spokesmen who have adopted the initiative law of Mr Bakker and Mrs Örgü and are already retired. Is that settled now? That too is information from the government. There was also a huge discussion about costs. Even then, according to the public service broadcaster, it was not just about photocopies. It was also a question of public service broadcasting bringing together all these programmes, for which millions had to be paid. That's hot. Is that settled now? As has already been said, we are talking about new products. What products could that be? Is that limited? I don't think so. I also read the word 'welfare enhancement'. Apparently, they make a lot of money. I am very curious to see how much money will be made and by whom, and whether the proceeds will be allocated jointly and severally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u41	Mr Bosma, it is very handsome of you, because you joined in with the contribution of the SP and it is following now. I give the floor to Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u42	Left boys there at the PVV! Mr. Chairman. The SP is for real entrepreneurs. The government generates an enormous amount of information. That information can be used by the entrepreneurs, as Mr Veldman said, to make a huge profit. He talked about hundreds of billions. We are discussing a directive from Europe today. And when a directive comes from Europe, we always have to be a little cautious, because usually it will cost the taxpayer a lot of money. The directive requires public sector organisations, public service bodies, to provide information for nothing, at least at marginal cost. I am very curious whether'marginal costs' also means 'cost-covering'. Is that always cost-effective? Otherwise, of course, you will have the strange situation where entrepreneurs are going to make profits, invest and make money, and that is paid for by taxpayers, because all kinds of institutions, including small cultural institutions, have to make costs to provide this information. I read that a little bit in the pieces. The Minister says that if there is not sufficient coverage, institutions must seek alternative cover. The Minister is thinking, for example, of increasing registration fees. Can we agree here that providing information by institutions entrusted with a public task, like governments, will not cost the citizen anything extra? We have to support entrepreneurship, certainly real entrepreneurs, very much, but the roast roosters don't have to fly in the mouth for free. I was somewhat surprised that this Act provides re-use of public sector information. I was also a little surprised about filing the Law Prevent Abuse Wob. After all, I was here a while ago to make my contribution in the first term to the examination of the initiative proposal Open Government Act by Mrs Voortman and Mr Schouw. I saw all these points coming back to me. We have a good habit in the Netherlands that when the Chamber takes an initiative, the government is reluctant. Is "retrospective" the submission of two legislative proposals during a legislative procedure for an initiative law from the Chamber? So the question is: why are these two legislative proposals being tabled? Why now? Why is it not simply regulated in the initiative proposal? Mr Schouw and Mrs Voortman have already made that offer. The President has already said that we may be able to deal with it quickly. Why do we now have to deal with three laws instead of one law, especially since I see that amendments are now all being tabled to weave things back together, to take them apart and to look after each other? Is that all convenient? When you talk about public tasks, you always have to deal with the fact that nowadays it is less and less clear what is and is not public. For example, I was surprised to read that housing corporations cannot be described as "a public-service institution." Can the Minister explain that? Why can't these institutions be labeled as a public service institution?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u43	This has put an end to the first term of office. The Minister is already standing, indicating that he can immediately proceed to his response in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u44	Mr. Chairman. The subject of openness and openness is a very broad one. It appears to have many interfaces with all kinds of other areas and laws. I'll try to focus at the start of my response on what's ahead. It is about the implementation of a European directive. This implementation is mandatory for the Member States. There's a time limit on it, too. The directive is intended to be implemented by 18 July. So that's gonna be tight. Anyway, at least we're gonna do our best to do that. I'm getting some information from the messenger now, but it's too late. Next time! The general policy line of the cabinet, which has also been discussed here in the Chamber, is to implement a directive without a national head. So we are not going to say on every occasion: we are going to do what Europe wants and we are going to do something about it. We implement, where possible, one-on-one what results from a European directive. This Directive concerns the re-use of information previously disclosed on request. This differs from other aspects of the policy of openness and openness in the dual sense. The Public Administration Act allows a citizen or organisation to have access to information that has not previously been publicly available. The policy is different, and I shall come back to that in the area of open government. The aim here is to make as much data as possible available on its own initiative, spontaneously, immediately, so this does not happen on request. That is a much larger area and I shall go into it in a moment. I intend to be extremely active on this in the coming months and years. This is not about the big issue of open government and not about changing the Public Administration Act. This is merely a matter of making publicly available, on request, information previously made public, i.e. available. Also it's about the right shape, for example not with photocopys, because then it's usually no use, but in the form of spreadsheets. This also allows people to let go of all the operations they might want to release on it. Before I go into the subjects, I will bring up the cost aspect. That is of immediate importance. The thought is as follows. Public or semi-public institutions have previously collected information for any reason. The collection costs have already been made. That information is there, and it has already been pointed out that it is in principle public information. The costs which may then be passed on, here referred to as marginal costs, are all the costs resulting from the subsequent provision of it. In the direction of Mrs Keijzer: that is not just the photocopy. I don't think it should have the shape of a photocopy anyway. These are the additional costs to be incurred by the institution entrusted with a public service mission in order to make such a provision, following a request.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u45	Thank you very much. That's pretty clear, but a number of institutions now need to make investments, additional investments to make it available, especially to make it digitally available, and certainly to make it digitally available to everyone. Can they pass on the additional costs that the institutions now have to pay?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u46	Strictly speaking, if they are required to incur costs that they would not otherwise have incurred if they did not have to make information available for re-use, they may pass on those costs. At the same time, I think that an organisation would be wise to set up its databases in such a way that they could be made public as much as possible. We will indeed soon come up with a whole policy plan for the open government. The starting point is that it is no longer necessary to make public on request. We still think in the image of the government that collects data and puts it in a closet, and then someone comes asking: can I get information out of that closet? But ideally, you go to a situation where that closet is the public. The data are then collected in such a way that all those authorities have in mind that they can then immediately make that information public. They must also make them public, because that is their job. I think that investments made in the collection and availability of data in an orderly manner are good investments. They also stem from the core task of such institutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u47	Then let us all agree that they can pass on these investments, so that the taxpayer does not have to pay for the fact that entrepreneurs make a profit from our data.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u48	Moreover, I think that this question is an assumption that I would like to take a great distance from. I think it's fantastic if entrepreneurs are creative and know how to do everything with that information that was already collected. The consumer may also want to contribute to this. Think about TomTom. For his invention, TomTom uses public information about the road network. That information shall be made available in a smart way. In the meantime you have other ways to do things and everyone has it on their phones, but TomTom has been a very successful Dutch company for years. That success was based on public information that was made available in a smart way. Probably that company's profits have been much greater than the costs that might have been incurred earlier to collect that information.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u49	I very much agree with that, but I am concerned that institutions should be able to pass on the investment they have to make before they deliver. Then I'm fine with it. I love real entrepreneurs. I'm still a fool at an enterprising government, but I'll come back to that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u50	I think we're in agreement. This means that the costs incurred in collecting or producing that information, such as infrastructure, archiving and helpdesk, may not be passed on, but the costs of subsequently making that information available.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u51	Just as accountants among themselves, it is only the direct costs that are allocated and not the indirect costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u52	Mr Schouw has to explain for a moment, even though we are accountants among ourselves, what he means by indirect costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u53	These are gas, light and heating and the costs which the Minister himself has already mentioned for my interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u54	It's two different things. I assume that institutions will also have the light on if they do not make something public. These costs must not be passed on. It is really about the additional costs that arise from making that information available again. The costs incurred in collecting or producing that information, such as infrastructure, archiving and helpdesk, are costs incurred by an organisation to generate information. That would also be the case if you were not forced by this directive or by the law to make that information available again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u55	Accountants are not always very precise, but it seems to me that this generally amounts to direct costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u56	I have tried to distinguish between the important policy areas of the Open Government and the Public Administration Act. The reason for putting this into a separate law is firstly because it is an implementation of a European directive. Secondly, it is also the explicit opinion of the Council of State to bring this into a separate law. In addition, it has been asked whether there is a law to prevent abuse of the WOB. The Vereniging van Nederlandse Gemeenten has asked for this to be started as soon as possible and this has been speeded up. Finally, there is Mrs Voortman's initiative law, which is before the Chamber. This initiative law is about the Public Administration Act, but in the eyes of Mrs Voortman it is a modern and more advanced version of it and it regulates that people cannot yet request public information.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u57	I would just like to touch on the point of courtesy raised by Mr Van Raak. The feeling in the Chamber is that it is not very chic that, if there is an initiative law in this Chamber, the cabinet will then come up with a piece of its own law. I wonder if the cabinet shares that view of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u58	First of all, let me correct myself. I was just talking about Mrs Voortman's law, but it is the law of Mrs Voortman and Mr Schouw together. There are two reasons why this should be dealt with by separate law. The first reason is that we need to implement the European directive by mid-July. That was also the opinion of the Council of State. Finally, that is now a third reason, the Open Government Act is responsible for something else. It is not a question of making public information available again, but of extending the possibilities for citizens and organisations to make information, which now rests with the public authorities, public. With all due respect for the initiative that is before us, that seems to me to be a good reason to adopt this law and then to deal with the law of open government.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u59	Mrs Voortman will have to say something about that in a moment, but I would like to go over that. My comment was more about that other law, the Penalty Law, because of course it has a one-on-one relationship with Mrs Voortman's initiative law. Does the Cabinet recognise the courtesy rule that we must do everything we can to deal with that law first in this Chamber and then, if necessary, a separate law of the Cabinet, which is actually a part of that initiative law?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u60	That's not the law before us. That's another law to counter the abuse of the Public Administration Act. I acknowledge that it is also part of the initiative law before us. At the same time, this initiative law is not disputed in advance, while a law to prevent abuse seems to be. Moreover, the Association of Dutch Municipalities has urged me to stop this abuse as soon as possible. In general, you would wait until the initiative law has been dealt with in detail here, but there are good reasons for dealing with this, moreover, valuable element in the initiative law, separately and with priority. I take it that law won't be very debatable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u61	The legislative proposal before us today concerns the implementation of a European directive. Indeed, there is relatively little discussion about this. The Minister said that Mrs Voortman's and Mr Schouw's bill is mainly about actively making the information public. That is true, but the proposal is also about tackling abuse. If the Minister says that our bill is only about the openness aspect, I do not think he does justice to the balance of our bill. My question to the Minister, the question that Mr Schouw has just asked, is whether he will do everything with us to deal with that bill as quickly as possible. Then we'll be done in one go.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u62	I have just admitted that it is part of that. Indeed, the House's initiative proposal goes further and also includes the element of combating abuse. We are not yet ready to discuss the initiative proposal by the cabinet and to formulate the government's opinion on it. I am not convinced in advance that this bill will be widely accepted by the Chamber without much debate. That will have to prove to be real, while combating abuse is a matter of urgency. The municipalities have also been asked to take care of this as soon as possible. That's why I'm saying I'd like to get this one bitch out of the porridge anyway. Again, not because I want it so badly, but because I think we should stop the abuse as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u63	Mr Van Raak's question was whether the cabinet should not be a little more cautious. I do not share the Minister's view that one aspect would be more urgent than the other. That would have to be substantiated first. I think it would be wisest to say: we want to tackle the abuse and we want more transparency. You can do that with the bill on the open government. We must all ensure that this bill is dealt with quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u64	I haven't tried to say it's more urgent than anything else. I have the impression that one is urgent and undisputed. The other is perhaps also urgent, but it will still have to be demonstrated how broad the support for this is in the Chamber. Since this is a major renovation of the Public Administration Act, it seems to me that this will not turn out to be a hammer piece. Once again, I admit that you want to try, from the politicians' point of view, to anticipate as little as possible parts of the legislative initiative proposals. But there is a good reason, both in terms of content and in terms of the municipalities, for this one bill to be dealt with soon. I hope this will happen. That's not this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u65	I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u66	I have just said that the subject of open data is a much larger subject. Mrs Oosenbrug and others spoke about this. I fully endorse the great importance of this. The government and the semi-government are on large datasets, which may have been collected for good reasons. Often it is precisely the combination of both that can be extremely valuable. Visualizing the data also plays a major role. That's kind of my old job. If you know how to make that data in a smart way, with good color codes or good graphics, you can suddenly recognize patterns in it that you wouldn't see than when you'd be sitting alone with tables in front of you. Visualizing in a good way is a separate business, especially to do it in a user-friendly way, so with smart apps. That's a growing field. I see a lot of potential in that. This is an extremely important area especially for the Netherlands, a country that has done a lot both in terms of graphics and in terms of data processing and creativity. This month I will be presenting a first top-down inventory of what is to be found in the area of open datasets in the various departments. After the summer I come up with a national open-data agenda. There's an abbreviation for that: NODA. In any case, I will give an idea of which datasets of departments could be made available as a matter of priority. I would also like to look at demand-driven, in the vein of: what would be socially desirable? We are not only looking at what lies ahead, we are also looking at what would be useful to get above the table. I will report on an initiative taken by Minister Dijsselbloem of Finance and myself. I didn't think the top-down inventory of datasets was going fast enough. That is why we have drawn up a programme with state trainees. We said to them: "Now look at the government in the breadth of the bottom of what you run into. Last week, there was a report of those trainees. They came up with some suggestions. Bokals have been awarded to the best trainees. We are therefore also trying to obtain bottom-up information if I may use that fashionable word. I'll report on that. Finally, of course, I will also report on the implementation of the motion adopted by Mrs Oosenbrug and Mrs Voortman on the active disclosure of research reports. So I'll come back to that after the summer. By which I mean that the subject of open government goes far beyond this directive of Europe and that it has the full attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u67	With a number of smart, creative editing, that government information is really making money.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u68	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u69	Fantastic! Why does the government itself do so little about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u70	Well, we could have a long debate on that. I know Mr Van Raak is a PhD philosopher. What is a government task and what isn't? These are databases which have apparently been collected and organized as part of the public task. We believe that it is a public task, and I believe that there is broad support for it, so that it can then be made available to the public in the best possible way, so that it can then be done in the market as it pleases. So I would say: this is so-called precompetitive information. This concerns information that has not been collected with the intention of making money from it. In that sense, you could compare it to the map of the stars in the sky, the world map or the world map or the world map. I come to my old field of expertise, the knowledge of human DNA. The latter has been the subject of a long debate, but in the end it has become precompetitive information. Anyone can access that information, without password, without charge and without patents. Then, on the basis of that information, any entrepreneur can do his job. He can say, if I do this now and this, I've suddenly discovered a new medicine. He can then get a patent on it and get on with it. This also applies to other datasets in other contexts. Indeed, it could well be that the profit that is ultimately made is greater than the amount that the government has ever invested to generate that primary data.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u71	I totally agree with making that information available, you know. It's our information. I'm a representative of the people. The people have paid for gathering that information. It's our stuff, so I'd like to have access to it, too. It is therefore a good thing that the Minister is going to do all this, with open source and accessibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u72	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u73	But can't a government itself be innovative and creative? That's not illegal, is it? It's not like a government can just generate data, is it? I mean, the government gets to do things with that data, doesn't it? So I would very much like to see a program for this from the government. Don't leave this to entrepreneurs. Real entrepreneurs are working on this, but why isn't the government working on it itself? This can generate social profits, but it may also generate financial profits. Saves taxes again, I'd say.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u74	Maybe it's a sham contradiction. I am now setting an example. I believe that BZK and other departments have also made various apps available to make public sector information transparent, usable and applicable. As I said, however, this will soon be a philosophical debate. In my opinion, the primary objective of the government should not be to make a profit from the information we have gathered from public funds, unless such an activity really coincides with a public task. However, there is no reason not to leave activities that are sector-specific for profit-making to the free industry.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u75	I don't know if the minister had finished his contribution on open dates. However, what I have heard from him so far does not sound very ambitious. I hear the Minister say he's coming up with an open-data agenda after the summer. That will be two years after the 2013 Action Plan. That's all going to take a long time. An hour and a half before the start of this debate, the Minister sent us a letter. In the last sentence of that letter is the following. "Furthermore, the actual cost and benefit development will be monitored, so that it can be reported to your Chamber by the end of 2017.' That sounds a long way away. I'd like to see some more ambition.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u76	I think two different things are being mixed up now. I just said that I'm coming up with a top-down inventory of files that could be made public this month. I also said that after the summer I will have that national open data agenda in a few months' time. I've just set out the ambitions of that. In the phrase in the letter to which Mr Veldman refers, it says that, once we have started these things, we will then have to see in practice what the cost is for public and semi-public institutions to actually do this. After all, it is sometimes guessing. It has just been asked whether, for example, new investments are needed. Isn't this underrated? You can only establish that in practice. So I said about this: if we do this for two years, we will be able to provide a first report in 2017 on the costs and benefits that this entails in practice. That is what Mr Veldman is referring to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u77	I would like to make a specific comment on the agenda. If we get it after the summer, I'm going to read what I put in my first term, namely that we'll be ready by the end of 2016, that the infrastructure will be there and that all the open data we have are actively available and usable for anyone who wants to reuse public sector information to do commercial things to create jobs? I'm gonna take a look at Mr. Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u78	That's the idea. If the agenda is there, additions are welcome, because we all have an interest in it. The intention is to carry that out with speed, so that we can look back on the costs and benefits in 2017.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u79	Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u80	Mr Schouw asked why the Trade Register is not included. In any case, this is not the result of the directive which should be brought underneath it. The Chamber of Commerce should cover a significant part of the costs associated with the public business task of the Commercial Register with revenues from the sale of that information. For example, in 2014, the cost of recording information from the Trade Register was 123 million and revenues from its sale amounted to 49 million. This therefore covers 40% of the costs. If that were not excluded from the main rule in the bill, there would indeed be a structural gap of 49 million. That is not covered now, nor is it the result of the directive of Europe. That would indeed mean a national headline, which is not the government's intention at the moment. Of course, a decision can always be taken to do otherwise, but that decision will also have to be covered on occasion. Mrs Voortman has tabled a number of amendments. At the end of my speech, I would like to make that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u81	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u82	Mrs Keijzer asked a few more questions about the preparations of the cultural institutions. Preparatory meetings will take place on 18 and 22 June. Many cultural institutions already do open data. In addition to the classical cultural institutions, there is now a whole community of cultural institutions that is designated as such. That community is active in providing all kinds of interesting cultural data. That's how they get ahead of themselves. These applications are of value for tourism and for education. I would particularly like to mention the Urban Agenda, which could improve the way in which information and living conditions are handled in the city. Mrs Keijzer asked whether this would make it difficult to finance cultural institutions. The answer is that the reason is that cultural institutions are allowed to charge more if there is reason to do so. We're gonna monitor that, and according to the law, we're gonna evaluate in three years' time how the specific law that's in front of us is gonna work out. Cultural institutions may reject applications if copyright is at stake. That is, of course, a regular issue in this sector. That's why they need time to take a serious look at that. Who does the information come from and is it always clear? The essence of re-use is that market players start working on public sector information and do new things with it. I call visualizations, analyses, new combinations and so on. In doing so, they add value; it is about that market activity. Of course, the public authorities must ensure that the information that falls within the public service remit is provided in a comprehensible, accessible manner. I'm sure that's in the law, too. However, by means of the source, it must always be clear that the basic information comes from a public institution. This is also guaranteed in the Market and Government Act. There is therefore a clear difference between the nature of the substantive information, with source and responsibility for the government, and what happens in context with it. That is the responsibility of the re-user. Mrs Keijzer asked an interesting question. What about the EU institutions themselves? The answer is that the European Commissioner has issued a communiqué on his own documents. This is broadly in line with the rules in this directive. I therefore believe that what is being imposed on the Member States as a directive is being imposed on themselves in Europe. I assume that the European Parliament will be watching that closely. When will this directive be a success? That is when we have succeeded in ensuring that the re-use of public information becomes the standard procedure. Mrs Oosenbrug asked what is being done to ensure that the deadline laid down in the law is not constantly filled. We are talking about four weeks to decide and four weeks to postpone it, so eight weeks. Let me say first of all that such a request for public access must always be brought to a speedy conclusion. I don't get systematic signals of slow decision-making. It has to be done carefully. If intellectual property is at stake, it must be established whether that information can be disclosed, and that may take time, as I said in reply to Mrs Keijzer's question. The time limit in this law is therefore no different from the period laid down in earlier laws, namely four weeks to decide and possibly four weeks to postpone. To be honest, I still attach the greatest importance to those four weeks in which to conclude, because I believe that this deadline is also essential for the new category of institutions, the cultural institutions, to ensure that there are no wrongdoings. Mr Veldman asked a question about the portals. Are there any differences between the portals and the websites? Yes, there are, but not all open data used should be available via data.overheid.nl. However, one portal is the starting point. Why aren't there enough municipalities involved? As we know, we have the Digital 2017 programme, with which we also try to activate municipalities as much as possible on this point. We fire them to do so, we encourage them to do so, but of course they also have their own responsibility. Municipalities are accompanied when connecting to the website data.overheid.nl. Mr Bosma asked about public service broadcasting. This is not the purpose of the directive that is now coming from Europe. He'll be excluded from that. The same applies to housing corporations. If we did that, it would be an independent decision of the Netherlands and we would put a national head on European policy. The cabinet is not in favour of that. Mr Bosma asked a question similar to a question asked by Mr Van Raak. Is the taxpayer getting something back for his money when we are going to make private profits with publicly collected information? Let me add to what I said earlier that, of course, the taxpayer is also the consumer who then uses that information. He's also the one who says: I actually think it's handy to have an app that combines the restaurants that deliver home that is of course private information with the zip code information that is public. Then you have a site on which you only have to indicate what you want to eat and, because of the taste you happen to have, you get to hear what the nearest pizzeria or Thai is. You can say that the information about the zip code area has once been publicly paid, but it is of course the consumer who says: well, I do have something for that. I also believe that such applications do not cost money to avoid misunderstandings. I'm just making up one that I used recently. So there can be a lot of added value that consumers also have money for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u83	I think that Mr van huisvoord.nl is now one of the richest entrepreneurs in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u84	Is that bad?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u85	No, on the contrary, he was granted that. He does this with information that we, as taxpayers, have put money into; we, as taxpayers, are spending money on everything. A lot of things fail, too. It just happens. If people with things we have paid for are going to make a lot of money, it is interesting that the government can take advantage of this and with it we can all benefit from it. I don't know what the earning model is of showerradar.nl.I think they're making money through the ads on the site, but I think that site runs like a train and can make a lot of money with it. We have paid for scraping that information through the KNMI and now a lot of people become multimillionaires. What's a pay model so the government can take a piece of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u86	That is an extremely socialist view of Mr Bosma.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u87	Extremely commercial!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u88	Take home delivery now, because that's what I just showed up on. That website uses some public information, the zip code, and combines it with information from private companies, restaurants, to look smartly at where you could get your pizza from. Suppose it is true that such an entrepreneur does good business with it, then you cannot come back to that entrepreneur afterwards and say: now that things are going so well, I really want to get something back for the postcode information. I believe that a large part of the value of public data is that people in both the public sector and the private sector can invent new applications and thereby create added value. This can be social added value and sometimes also commercial added value.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u89	Now smell a little money, I tell the Minister. I don't think the fact that we can order pizzas is enough. People are gonna be lovely. We as taxpayers have invented something and then we simply have to take 10% of the money. It makes sense to say: just give me 10% of the profits of homed.nl and give me 10% of the profits of buitenradar.nl. It'll help us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u90	With all due respect, this is a bit of a primitive way of thinking about what we should do in the public domain. We must first decide whether we think it is of public interest to collect, organize and make available certain information systematically. Let me go to my old field, get away from those pizzas. We have said that we find reading human DNA public information. That information belongs to all of us. If then there are companies that can use this information to discover medicines for serious diseases, they can patent such a discovery. That is then the earning model in the pharmaceutical industry. You're not gonna tell that company later: you used that public DNA information, and I want a penny of that back now. That wouldn't be reasonable. You don't want it in advance either, Mr. Bosma said something else...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u91	Not after, he said.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u92	You don't want it in advance either, because in advance you obviously had good reasons to say that you think it's important that this information is collected by the government and made public. If there is then an entrepreneur who does something to create added value, including profit for his business, then that is an effect, I think even an intended effect, because it is good for employment and the economy. You can't come back later and say you still want to cash. As a government, you have to ask yourself whether it is still a government task to gather this information and make it public. That's the key question, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u93	We have a Prime Minister who calls everywhere: the goal of politics is to make money. The Netherlands has to make money. The individual entrepreneur may become rich, but society as a whole cannot make money. Where did that taboo come from? If we all, taxpayers in the Netherlands, generate information that then smart and good entrepreneurs do good things and profit for their business, I see no objection whatsoever as to why society as a whole should not benefit from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u94	We are now entering into an extremely strange but interesting debate. I think that society will only benefit if we succeed in making re-use of information collected by the public in such a way that social added value is created. This could lead the Heart Foundation to do something with it, completely free of charge and for nothing, to tell heart patients how to live healthy. However, it may also lead to a private entrepreneur marketing a product for which consumers are willing to pay. In both cases, public information has been used that they have been able to obtain at cost, if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u95	Fine, but we're making a law here today. I fully agree with the Minister that if you make information available to everyone, entrepreneurs can do smart things with it. If this works out once and someone's gotten very rich, you can't say you've gotten rich and now you're gonna have to pay extra. However, you can very well include in the law a provision that allows the community to benefit from the fact that it has made data available and someone who is able to market in a good, smart and innovative way. You can do that through a percentage or an idea. Has any thought been given to the possibility of including that in such a law?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u96	That would mean a great national head of this European directive anyway, but that is more of a procedural argument. I believe, however, that the public authorities should consider what kind of information they have at their disposal can be made available to the benefit of the general public. For example, the Hartstichting can use that information without any profit, but an entrepreneur can also use it. He can combine information from the phone book with another public file, make it an app with a nice visualization, and then people might find it so interesting, that they would have €2.50 left to get it on their mobile phone. If then a million people do so, it will make a profit for that company. That's the point. It creates jobs and it is good for growth. You cannot, from a legal point of view, go back and say: now that you're making so much money, can I have some more back?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u97	Mr Van Raak said that you could also agree to this in front. Is that possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u98	No, because the essence of public information is that you don't agree. You're just providing it. The law states that you have the right to get that information at a cost.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u99	That's a choice!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u100	That is a choice and I fully defend it here. The spirit of the contribution of almost all spokesmen is also: make as much public as possible at cost, but certainly not with a calculation of percentages. We want to push as much as possible into the public domain. This goes beyond just this "Open Government" action plan, which comes back extensively so that people can do what they want, including profit.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u101	This is gonna be a great discussion. This is about the purpose of the bill, namely innovation. I am not in favour of a percentage of this, so that an amount can be requested when money is spent on innovation. I ask the Minister to state clearly that the dates are used in an open manner. They are made available by the government and a citizen can choose to invest in them. We are not going to punish people afterwards because they have been innovative. I would like to hear this very clearly from the Minister, because I am very much in favour of innovation and openness and certainly for open datasets. I want to stimulate this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u102	That's right. Mrs Oosenbrug sums it up tighter than I tried to do. I fully agree with this. This also discussed Mr Van Raak's aspect of cost security. I now have to discuss the amendments. Before we get to definition issues: this is the implementation of a European directive. It describes its scope. Housing corporations are expressly excluded from this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u103	You've said this before.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u104	I think that's what I said. I am not saying that they are not public institutions, because that brings you into a completely different debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u105	Mr Van Raak wishes to comment on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u106	It's in the pieces. I ask this because it is very unclear in these matters what is public and what is not. We also had this discussion when we talked about top incomes, because then nobody knew what was public, semi-public and non-public. The documents really state that, according to the government, housing corporations are not an institution entrusted with a public task. Then what are they?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u107	For the Top Income Standards Act, the circular reasoning is that all these institutions fall within the scope of the Top Income Standards Act, which the Top Income Standards Act states they are covered by. They are listed exhaustively; indeed, with an argument which supports the fact that they have some public character. Dijkstal had four criteria for this. I won't repeat it here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u108	On page 4 of the note relating to the report, the following is stated: "At the discretion of the government'. What are they, then, I was thinking? What are housing corporations then?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u109	Housing corporations cannot be regarded as public institutions in the sense of the legislative proposal before us. However, Mr Van Raak is right in that the legislator has finally established for the scope of the norming of top incomes that housing corporations contain such a public aspect that they should fall within the scope of that law for the sake of salaries. That was established after the Court of Justice had been examined, because I do not think that was the case at first. Sometimes one law defines the scope differently from the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u110	Let us now turn to the amendments. There are three of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u111	Three amendments have been tabled. The first is the amendment to item No. 11.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u112	It is a question of the amendment to item No. 10. The amendments to documents Nos. 11 and 12 have been renumbered; these were first the amendments to Nos. 8 and 9. The amendment in part No. 10 is the amendment to item No. Mr Schouw and Mr Voortman's amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u113	Now I'm merged at a higher level. All right, let's deal first with the amendment to item No. 10, because the other one's been renumbered. The amendment in part No. 10 is about deadlines. The suggestion is to reduce the four-week period within which to decide, and the four-week period for continuation to two weeks. In view of the new institutions brought under the scope of this bill, such as museums and libraries, I would advise against this. It will be quite a job for them, for example, to recognise intellectual property, to deal with it wisely and not to make things public that they are not allowed to make public. I think they need the four-week deadline for the assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u114	The Minister had just referred to this in reply to another question from me about those eight weeks. He said it was very important to think that the time limit for assessment is four weeks, but at the continuance I seemed to taste some space. What is the Minister's position on a two-week deadline, so that the total period is six weeks?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u115	Let me put it this way. The cabinet has already looked into this before, and this is the proposal made by the cabinet, namely a period of two times four weeks. I attach the greatest importance to those first four weeks before the assessment, and I think that in the cultural sector they attach great importance to those second four weeks before the postponement, but I think that the Chamber itself should ultimately consider how it intends to deal with it. Our proposal is clear, but I will not strongly discourage it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u116	I see that Mrs Voortman is now confused.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u117	I wonder what this means for Mr Schouw and myself's amendment. We say two times two. This is information that is already public. Am I to understand that the Minister is now saying that four plus two is fine?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u118	I don't think I've said that quite literally. Anyone can read back what I said in the Acts. I attach most importance to the first four weeks in which the initial assessment can be carried out. I have the impression that the cultural institutions really need it. Today is the cabinet's proposal to keep four weeks. If you have anything else in your wisdom, you will have to live with it. Can I sum it up like that? I shall now turn to the Amendment No 1, tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u119	That was the amendment in part No. 8.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u120	That was indeed the amendment to item No. 8. The aim is to include a general provision stating that there is a right to re-use public information held by a public service body. That is actually already stated in Article 3 (5). It states that the institution entrusted with a public service mission can only reject a request for re-use on the basis of a number of exceptions. These are set out in Article 2. So it's already in the law. So I do not think it is necessary to add this again. In addition, this may create the impression that amendment adds the objective of the law, while the objective of the European directive was. It has been developed in this law and made explicit in Article 3. So I don't think it's necessary to record this again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u121	Needless to say, and thus dissuade?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u122	Needless to say, it's not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u123	I thank the Minister for his explanation. I have another question. I did not just put it to Mrs Voortman because I wanted to read her explanatory statement as well. The last sentence reads: "The right should not be restricted in the eyes of the applicants by the condition that the applicant has an interest in this." Can the Minister confirm to me that this sentence is not in line with what is stated in the explanatory memorandum of the bill? I believe that anyone can rely on information that is public and does not have to show any interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u124	At least the latter is the case. You don't have to show any interest. It's not just for stakeholders.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u125	If so, I can delete that sentence. I think the Minister was still working on his further explanation of this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u126	No, he said that the amendment was superfluous and he therefore advises against its adoption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u127	Yes, that is what I said about the amendment to item No. 11. Finally, I come to the amendment on item No. 12.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u128	Then I have one more question. We propose to include the right to re-use in the law, the explicit right. That makes perfect sense to me. What's against that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u129	That's what it says a long time ago, so that's really unnecessary. I just read it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u130	Where does it say that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u131	I would like to read it out again: 'the institution entrusted with public tasks can only reject a request for re-use if these exceptions are the case'.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u132	I believe that you said that this was in Article 3.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u133	Yes, in Article 3 (5). Moreover, the aim of the European directive is, of course, to achieve this objective. That is clearly the purpose of the directive. That directive also applies. It should not be a competition to sum up all kinds of objectives of legislation in an amendment. I don't want to encourage that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u134	Will you carry on with the amendment to item No. 12.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u135	That is the old amendment to point No. 9, which aims to add the archive to this law. Our analysis is that we already comply with the European directive through the Archive Act. That is why we do not want to include archives in this law, otherwise there will be two laws. That doesn't make the world any better. We do not want to abolish the Archive Act either, because it has a value for other reasons. I therefore advise against the adoption of this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u136	This put an end to the government's first term. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Schouw van D66 in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u137	Mr. Chairman. Thanks to the fact that you have been so generous with interruptions today, we have had a very good and pleasant debate. That's why I don't have to fill up my 4 minutes and 50 seconds. Most things have already changed in my eyes. When dealing with the open government bill, an umbrella law, we will discuss the possible integration of the different weets. There are a number of advantages to this in my view. Mrs Voortman and I have quickly come to the conclusion that in our amendment we first put four weeks and then two weeks. I feel that a number of other groups can live with that. That's a pleasure for the Minister to know. We will amend the amendment and put it to the vote next week. I'm filing one more motion. The riddle of course was a bit faint, but it was a 1970 investigation led by Mr Barend Biesheuvel into the tilting of government communication. Well, that's interesting, isn't it? Very interesting recommendations are made in the 45-year-old research. When you look through your eye hairs at what has come of it, you come to the conclusion that there is still a way to go. It's nice that that Biesheuvel had such an incredibly forward-looking visionary look and that there are still things we should realize! [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas datasets produced by institutions entrusted with public tasks are a huge, diverse and valuable amount of resources that can benefit the knowledge-based economy and democracy;]] [[Whereas it is not yet explicitly established that requests for information already dealt with are made public in preferably one register and that the quality of the user remains inadequate;]] [[calls on the Government to encourage institutions entrusted with a public task to publish data already released from already processed re-use requests on data.government.nl and to actively send it to improve the user quality of the data,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Schouw, Mr Voortman, Mr Oosenbrug, Mr Veldman, Mr Keijzer and Mr Van Raak.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34123-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u138	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister once again for his reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u139	And I thank you for your contribution. Then I give the floor to Mrs Voortman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u140	Mr. Chairman. I would like to comment briefly on two amendments that I have tabled. The first aims to explicitly include the right to re-use in the law. The Minister just quoted an article that would show that there is a right, but I thought that was a rather vague article. If the Minister says that there should be a clear right, I would say: put it in the law, because then we all know what we are talking about. With regard to my second amendment, the Minister states that what is envisaged in it does not need to be regulated in this law because it is already in the Archive Act. It is precisely in order to prevent the Archive Act from being used for the collection of periodic penalty payments, since the anti-abuse regime proposed by the government applies only to the WOB and the Re-use of Public Sector Information Act and not to the Archive Act, I think it is important to make it explicitly clear here that it also applies to archives. I also asked a question about the importance of extending the scope of this law to semi-public institutions. I don't think the Minister has gone into that. Would he still want to do that? I think that enlargement is a great improvement, and a number of groups see it as such.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u141	Mrs Keijzer had to sign out for the rest of the debate because she has other obligations. Mr Van Raak has waived the second term, so I can now give the floor to Mr Veldman of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u142	Mr. Chairman. I have just watched with some surprise how SP and PVV argue for a socialist or communist welfare state, but let me confine myself to what the Minister has said.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u143	Do I have to explain to an entrepreneurial party like the VVD that you also have to make money? The VVD's plea is to drop money. All people make money. That's fine. People make money on the basis of things that we as taxpayers have financed. You're stupid if you don't take money from that, aren't you? People just get awarded free of charge. Then you just say to Buienradar.nl: here you have that data, I would like 10% of the bv'tje that Buienradar.nl is covered by? Then we, as taxpayers, get 10% of the profits. We're gonna be rich with that, aren't we? We can do nice things about that. We say to the gentleman of Thuisborged.nl: very good, here you have the data, 10% of the profit. Then we get 10% of the profits and we make money. UWV is all going to exploit things that we have paid for and we say to that: do only 10% of the bv'tje. Then we'll all be rich. That has nothing to do with socialism, that's capitalism. We're all gonna be rich!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u144	Gee, what beautiful views. In my view, Mr Bosma ignores the fact that, at the moment that metadata are available, companies still have to work themselves. For example Buienradar.nl or Thuisborgd.nl has had to make efforts to make it a success. It might just be that before Buienradar.nl was a success, there were other entrepreneurs who used the same metadata but didn't succeed and who went bankrupt. It's possible. I do not know, and perhaps Mr Bosma knows, but if others succeed, they are very much in doing so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u145	Of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u146	Then we have the system that we just tax. People have to pay income tax. By the way, if this entrepreneur is successful, it will also create jobs. You should appeal to that, too. We know income tax and we tax companies when they make sales. In many ways, as a government, we recover things that allow us to realize all kinds of general provisions in this country. So that's what you want us to do, but what you want extra is the entrepreneurial risk that concerns someone. Extra taxing on information that is just structured but you also have to edit, that's what you do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u147	No, you're just a good negotiator. That's what you do. If Buienradar.nl fails to make money from it, we, as taxpayers, will not be better off with that 10% that I propose. What does a little smart college do? I was in Haifa, Israel a while ago. There's Technion, a university that's leading in the field of high-tech, biotech, and I don't know what. It has a huge department that validates all those inventions that are being made. With a cure for some horrible disease or with a wonderful internet application, they take percent everywhere and become rich in treasure. That's capitalism. That's what needs to be done. What Mr Veldman says is: we have paid it all with us, we are throwing it over the fence and other people are getting rich. How stupid can you be?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u148	It is still a simplification of reality. Perhaps this can work in a socialist state of salvation, but the information the government has available is not one-on-one useful. Companies will have to work with this and they will take a risk. That risk can be rewarded; if you are successful, you can earn a good living. I think it is very healthy for us to encourage this in the Netherlands. You don't do that by raising all kinds of premiums on unprocessed data at the front and by saying: you have to pay it or you have to pay it if you are going to be successful. I think you should do that at the back if someone's successful. In this country we have arranged this with income tax and corporation tax. This, I think, should be maintained in that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u149	I do not mind at all if Mr Veldman calls me a socialist. I'm proud of that!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u150	I can imagine.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u151	But we're not crazy Henkie either. I always like that so much: when things go badly with entrepreneurs, taxpayers have to jump in. Just look at ABN AMRO, for example. If entrepreneurs make a mess of it, the taxpayers, ordinary people, can pay it. Once we've hacked the bank again, it needs to be sold again and those bankers can make a profit again. I find it so strange that, according to Mr Veldman, everyone is allowed to do so, but we must not do so all together. We all pay for certain information. If smart, creative entrepreneurs work with that, what is wrong with it if we all benefit from it? What's irresponsible about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u152	If I may use Mr Van Raak's words myself: I do not think that socialist and crazy Henkie are so far apart. Mr Van Raak is turning things around, while you want to give people space. You want to give people space by making public sector information available to be able to undertake, to deal creatively with it. Things that Mr Van Raak and I may not think of will come up with. Let's let these people do that. Let's make that information available. It's just a matter of waiting to see if it's gonna be a success for that entrepreneur. There are also a lot of unsuccessful entrepreneurs who did have a creative idea that could not be sold. They didn't technically succeed and eventually became a flop. If you say at the front, "Entrepreneur, you already have to turn in 10% of what you're going to do and then there's a whole tax system behind it" doesn't really encourage him to do anything else. On the contrary, I want people to use the information that is going to be used, that they are going to handle it creatively, that they are going to show entrepreneurship, that they are going to grow and that they are also going to create jobs, which I believe Mr Van Raak wants. That's what we need in this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u153	I very much agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u154	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u155	But the taxpayer isn't crazy Henkie. If we as a society deliver people something, deliver an entrepreneur something, I if I was an entrepreneur I wouldn't do it. If I were an entrepreneur with stuff or information, I wouldn't even want it to be free; I would just pay my share. That's what you do, if you're a real entrepreneur. Another question might be even more interesting. Does Mr Veldman agree with me that governments themselves should be creative and innovative? Information will be available. I think it's fantastic when people start working on it and doing it, but shouldn't we encourage governments to use that information too, to develop creatively original products and to generate value for society?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u156	No, I do not agree with Mr Van Raak. I do agree with him that the government should be creative and innovative, but I do not agree that the government should become an entrepreneur and develop its own products as Buienradar.nl or Thuisborged.nl. We have a market for that; we have entrepreneurs for that. The government shouldn't do that. I'm just gonna respond on the Prime Minister's first term. We have just had a little debate on costs. I would also like to make clear to Mr Van Raak the differences between marginal, direct and indirect costs. The VVD Group fully agrees with what the Minister has included in the explanatory memorandum on page 8. I would like to refer to that for Mr Van Raak. I heard the minister say that one portal is the starting point. However, in replying to parliamentary questions, he indicated that he was okay with several ministries using their own sites. Then what is it: one portal or still fragmentation? What does the Minister want to work on now? I've heard him say that after the summer he comes up with an agenda, when he's been busy since 2013. I think that's a little slow and slow. I have also heard him make half a commitment, namely that he will deliver something by the end of 2016, after which the Chamber can indicate what more it wants. I don't think that's concrete enough. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas open data make a significant contribution to economic growth and employment;]] [[noting that the General Court is critical of the pace and manner in which the government opens its data;]] [[considers that the standard should be the machine-readable and standardised unlocking of all government data;]] [[calls on the Government, by the end of 2016, to access all appropriate government data machine-readable and standardised, via a national information infrastructure,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Veldman, Mr Voortman, Mr Schouw, Mr Oosenbrug, Mr Van Raak and Mr Keijzer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34123-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u157	Mr. Chairman. I was always too late to jump in, which is why I made a contribution in the second term. I would like to thank the Minister for the comprehensive reply and the nice exchange of views with the Chamber on open dates, a subject which has my warm interest, as will no longer be a secret. I wanted to interrupt because I missed the answer to my question or perhaps misunderstood it. What exactly is the difference between open licences and other licences and what consequences does that have for the people who request datasets? I assume that the use of open licences is free, while information on other licences should not be used openly. If the Minister can explain to me the difference between open licences and other licences, I am a satisfied person.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u158	This brings to an end the second term on the part of the Chamber. I see the Minister jumping up again, indicating that he can immediately answer the outstanding questions and respond to the motions that have been tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u159	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Oosenbrug managed to get me wrong at the end of the day, because I think I have answered the question about open licences, which are not strictly linked to this law. I will return to the national open data agenda after the summer. That's what it's got to do with.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u160	The Minister will return to this point in the letter promised on the national open dates agenda, which the Chamber will receive after the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u161	I agree that I will receive an answer in that letter. "After the summer" is of course a stretchable period. I'd rather say after the summer, but before the fall.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u162	Soon after the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u163	I'll admit it. I'm going to stop by the speakers for a moment. I see that the amendment has been amended. It's four plus two weeks now. That was not the proposal put forward by the cabinet, but if the amendment is adopted, I am prepared to defend the amended bill in the First Chamber. To Mr Schouw I say that I had not guessed Barend Biesheuvel. "Nice Barend" he was called. By the way, there are politicians who say that the Piet de Jong cabinet was the most left-wing cabinet our country has ever known, so it is quite possible that at that time on a number of subjects there was the highlight of left-wingism. Perhaps that has been a guiding factor in this area too. In the motion in part No. 13 is asked to collect all opendata sets on a register site on data.overheid.nl. I consider that to support the policy. I'd like to leave that judgment to the Chamber. Mrs Voortman came back to the right to re-use. I say again that I do not dispute this. The essence of the legislative proposal before us is the right to re-use. I do not want to encourage us to add this to the amendment every time, in the vein of 'ceci n'est pas une pipe'. I'm not for that. We have an Archive Act which ensures that we act in accordance with the European directive on archives. The prevention of abuse should indeed be regulated in the Archive Act. We will do so by means of a letter of amendment when we deal with the abuse law. Mrs Voortman does have a point, but I do not want to bring the archives under the scope of two different legal regimes. During Mr Veldman's contribution there was an interruption of the Van Raak/Bosman combination, the Fortuna/Sittardia combination in this Chamber. They felt that we should pass it on if profits were to be made. One aspect has not yet been mentioned in that discussion. Perhaps that could also play a role in its assessment. If you want to, if you would say that we take 10% of the profits that an entrepreneur has made with our dataset, then you should also keep track of that. Such an entrepreneur makes a profit somewhere, partly thanks to a public data set that he uses, but of course also thanks to all kinds of input that he himself is going to provide. There must then be a trajectory of accountancy to determine which part of that profit can actually be traced back to that public dataset. That also brings with it a lot of regulatory drive. It would be my preference to say: the government determines what dates it collects, for its magical reasons, and makes that audience, where it can be free of charge and where it is necessary to pass on only those costs that need to be incurred to make the public. After that, anyone can do whatever they want with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u164	No, it can be quite simple. You just meet with Buienradar.nl that the activity shower radar comes in a separate bv'tje. The e.g. the Netherlands gets 10% of them. The entrepreneur informs us every year through the Chamber of Commerce and the Tax Administration and then just starts running the cash register. It's very simple!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u165	Just now Mr Bosma also mentioned the example of Thuisvoerd.nl. It combines a public dataset, namely zip code areas, with private data, namely from restaurants that say they are able to deliver a pizza or something like that. This entrepreneur is making a profit. So as a government, you have to decide which part of that profit can be traced back to the public data collected, to the zip code information. So you're gonna have to keep track of that, start judging. That's gonna get us into an incredible mess. I would say just let people do what they want with the public information and don't dive into it. So I think that is an added argument, in addition to the other arguments, to say that you should not want to keep up with it. Mr Veldman asked for even more speed in the open data policy and served as the motion for a resolution in part No. 15 in. I actually think that motion is helpful. I therefore consider it to be a policy support in any case. The motion will also help me, because sometimes you have to put pressure on it elsewhere in the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u166	You never do that on my motions now!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u167	This is pressure in a direction that I also appreciate. I have already said a few things about Mr Van Raak's contribution in conjunction with that of Mr Bosma. I am only in favour of governments encouraging them to generate value, but note that value can take all kinds of forms. That's another thing: try to get as much money out of it as possible. I do not think that sec is a government objective. I have just made a commitment to Mrs Oosenbrug on the issue of the open licence. Mr. Chairman. I think I've answered all the questions with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u168	I see Mrs. Voortman walking to the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u169	Yes, she spoke about the importance of the scope of the law. I put a red line under it. I fully underline that interest. It is good that this European directive will extend the scope of re-use. I agree with her.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-6.u170	We will be voting next Tuesday on the motions tabled, the amendments and the legislative proposal. Thank you all for your attention.
