ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Education, Culture and Science, like the other people present in the Chamber, the people in the public gallery and the people who are following this debate in a different way. We are holding a majority debate with four minutes' speaking time per group. Six members have signed up. We're trying to run the regime of two interruptions at a time. The first speaker is also the applicant for the debate, Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u2	Mr. Chairman. The reason for this debate was the fuss surrounding PricewaterhouseCoopers' exploration of how schools and publishers deal with the privacy of students. From this the worrying picture emerged that schools would carelessly deal with the privacy of students. Privacy and security measures are applied only on the basis of common sense and far too much data is collected. It is unclear what publishers and suppliers do with that data and with whom they are shared, while there is a commercial interest to pass the data on to third parties. Overall, it is a worrying situation, especially in view of the fact that digitalisation will continue in the coming years. Schools will use more and more digital learning and tools. This offers opportunities for customization, but also has certain risks. Generating, storing, analysing and linking data will become increasingly easy, putting increasing pressure on students' privacy. Children should be able to develop freely without being pushed into a particular risk profile. It is therefore good to discuss this with each other and to come up with some starting points about how we deal with the privacy of students. The Secretary of State mainly looks at the schools. They would be responsible for the students' privacy. He wants to clarify the relationships between schools and suppliers. That would solve the problem. According to D66, however, schools are not the only ones responsible for the privacy of their students. PricewaterhouseCoopers' research shows that the market for apprenticeship tracking systems and digital learning tools is in the hands of a small number of suppliers. As a result, schools cannot provide enough counterweight and impose demands on privacy and security. How does the Secretary of State look at the power of suppliers, in the context of his plea for clarification of relations between schools and suppliers? D66 believes that the responsibility for privacy lies partly with suppliers and therefore wants the principles "privacy by design" and "security by design" to lead the entire process of developing and implementing all types of ICT systems in education, including apprenticeship tracking systems and digital learning tools. This way, privacy and security of ICT will be considered from the design phase onwards. Is the Secretary of State prepared to ensure that these are the guiding principles in the covenant that will be concluded in March? The same applies to transparency for parents. Schools can not only realize these, suppliers also play a role in this. It must be absolutely clear to parents which data are stored, for how long, who has access and with whom they are shared. D66 also believes that parents should have an influence on the data collected about their child. Can the Secretary of State indicate whether and how parents are involved in the formation of the covenant and whether he is willing to give them participation, for example by consent to the privacy regulations? The results of PricewaterhouseCoopers' exploratory research are alarming and require direct action. Nevertheless, it is an exploratory study and the conclusions that can be drawn are limited. Therefore, it is very important to get a thorough and complete picture of how schools, suppliers and publishers deal with privacy and whether the risks of misuse of data, which PricewaterhouseCoopers warns, have become a reality. Does the Secretary of State intend to have this investigated further? In 2014, Kennisnet organised a privacy theme month. Will this also be the case in 2015? I'm closing up. There are many more risks. I refer to the hacking of Magister, which seems to have taken place recently. ICT offers opportunities, but also risks. Simply saying that schools are responsible is not enough. Privacy and security by design must be the guiding principles in the development and implementation of ICT in education.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u3	On the dot, very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u4	Zero seconds left, really a man of the clock.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u5	Thank you for your contribution. I now give the floor to Mr Beertema of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u6	Mr. Chairman. On 25 November 2014, RTL reported on the transfer of personal data from primary school students to suppliers and developers of digital teaching material. We have also seen PricewaterhouseCoopers' report commissioned by the Ministry. The report is not active and shared directly with the Chamber, but since September it has been on the website of the government. The report mentions a number of risks, such as lack of knowledge in schools and the inability to counter publishing. Mr Van Meenen just recalled it. The optimum assurance of student data has, of course, received a lot of attention. That's right. The sector itself also attaches great importance to the privacy of students. It is important that schools are responsible for the careful processing of student data, while ensuring the privacy of those students. D66 sees a risk of pseudonymisation, of authentication and of authorisation of data that can be used wrongly, for example for social research. For the PVV it is central that the theme "privacy" is wider than just the misuse of data. Bodies such as Youth Services, for example, also make useful use of digital information. Our move is next. For the time being, at least as long as there is no direct indication of misuse of personal data in education. Leave it to the field. It's not about individual schools, it's about the field. It is not my civil society, I am not such a great friend of the people who are already very crowded, but that field should be able to address this problem itself. Let us, as the House of Representatives, distance ourselves for a moment and confine ourselves to the main points. A great deal is already happening. In 2013, the VO Council, the PO Council and the ministries of OCW and EZ started the Education & ICT Doorbraakproject. The aim is that schools will be better able to deal with ICT and digital teaching material in 2017. That digital teaching material is very important. That's a real innovation. In order to fulfil these ambitions, the public-private world is looking for cooperation on these themes, such as digital learning tools and accessibility. One of the themes is privacy. This is developed in concrete terms in the covenant on privacy that is expected to be ready in March of this year. The starting point here is that schools are directing the data and providing it to other parties. It is important that school administrators are aware of this role so that they can make the right agreements, make agreements and inform stakeholders, such as parents. Other parties are now also informed about the importance of ensuring privacy and the digital security of data, including through special meetings. Knowledge network has just been mentioned, but it is also about the signatories of the privacy agreement, parent organisations and schools. Instruments are being created, such as model contracts and checklists for schools and teachers. I like it a lot and I like it. Let's put that in place and not interfere directly with micropolitics as a Lower House. The PVV considers that the sector itself knows best about this. Do research and then draw up a covenant for privacy. Tackle the problem. In this covenant, all parties can provide insight into how they can handle this data responsibly in the future. Does the Secretary of State agree with us? I'd like to get a reaction to this. The member Van Meenen advocates promoting and using IT more in education. Then we must also have the courage to allow a little room for manoeuvre in its development. Otherwise, it'll all be smothered in the bud. Mr President, I tried to reach zero seconds, but it just didn't work out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u7	Mr Van Meenen will see to it that you stand still, because he has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u8	Mr. Beertema always surprises me. Here is the man who wants to know exactly how many lessons are given in the school to every hour; we should not let that go, imagine. But as far as the protection of students' privacy is concerned, we should all leave it that way. Which Beertem do we have in front of us? Is that the man who spent the last few years stuffing the schools with all kinds of rules, regulations, tests and all that? Or is there some kind of hippie in Mr. Bertema?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u9	Speaking here "Dr. Jekyll" Beertema or "Mr. Hyde" Beertema, that's what the question looks like. I always wonder at Senator De Graaf of D66 who we're dealing with. It is not so that we say: leave it to the gods because then it will be all right. I just remembered what's already happening. The letter states that many actions are under way: the exploratory research of PricewaterhouseCoopers, the covenant and model processor agreement, pseudonymization, Basic Gate, the Cooperation Platform Information Education, the monitor standards, the theme month on privacy, the sector agreement for primary education. The role of supervision is also important. I'd like to say, hello, that's all quite a bit. I told you, I'm not a great friend of civil society. This isn't my secretary of state either, but he's doing enough. There's not that much going on. I've worked with these digitized teaching methods. For this, students' data needs to be coughed up, because that way you can measure progress. You can measure anything; that's great, it's absolutely beautiful. A more modernist like Mr Van Meenen should open his heart to that and say: it has enough attention, let's put it down for a moment and the House of Representatives will not act until it is really necessary. That is not the case now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u10	The words of Mr Beertema are taken from my heart in general. I will also mention them on occasion in other debates. But here's the thing. Much is happening, and the question is whether the Chamber would like to add anything to that. I mentioned two things. Firstly, we need to consider whether parents can influence the privacy regulations that a school should have, in particular through consent rights. Secondly, we ask for privacy by design. I say this mainly because I think that I hope Mr Beertema agrees with me that schools should not become ICT companies and that we should lay down the responsibility where it can best be exercised.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u11	I very much agree with Mr Van Meenen on that last point. As far as the first is concerned, I would like to say once again that I do not think that any further action on this whole mountain of measures already taken by the Secretary of State and the field itself is premature, a waste of time and too much regulation. May I take the eleven seconds I have left with me to the next time, Mr President?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u12	Unfortunately, we don't deal with that kind of emissions trading in time. I give the floor to Mr Rog of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u13	Mr. Chairman. Children are special citizens in our society. They deserve the help and protection of adults: from parents, from the school and also from the government. At the end of last year, RTL News brought out that students' personal data were forwarded to the educational publishing houses via Basepoort. According to the Secretary of State, there's really no problem at all. This somewhat laconic attitude of the Secretary of State does not do justice to the vulnerable position of pupils. There was a lot of social unrest with parents, who did not know that personal data of their offspring ended up with commercial parties. And there was uncertainty in schools, who lived on the assumption that they had to make student data available to keep their educational software running. The CDA understands very well that, for example, personal data of children is shared during a transfer conversation between primary school and secondary education. That is clearly in the interests of that child and the performance of the educational task. But what is the need to collect and pass on student data to publishers? Why are these data not anonymised or pseudonymized from the very beginning? Like the Children's Ombudsman, the CDA sees a task for the Secretary of State to protect the right to children's privacy. The Secretary of State had already been warned in March 2014 by an alarming report by PwC on privacy and security. That report has been sitting in a desk drawer on the Ministry's premises for six months while action was required. PwC concludes after research under four schools that they cannot provide sufficient counterweight to suppliers and are unable to impose requirements for privacy and security. PwC further concludes that there are risks at Base Gate. It is unclear which data is collected exactly, by whom and for what purposes. In addition, there is the risk that the Personal Data Protection Act will not be complied with. I think if you read these conclusions, all the alarm bells should go off. Can't the Secretary of State insist that he didn't have to share this report with the Chamber? It would be a credit to the Secretary of State if he admitted here today that he made a mistake not sending this report to the Chamber without delay and made a mistake by not taking any action. The Secretary of State now reports that there are many actions under way. There is a commitment to conclude a covenant between schools and publishers in March 2015. Schools will soon be able to demand that publishers comply with such a covenant and after the summer there will be a real test with pseudonymisation. The CDA asks the Secretary of State to become concrete now and take his responsibility. Can schools now refuse to provide apprenticeship data without being expelled from the digital learning environment? I have six more questions and suggestions to which I would like to hear a response because they are possible measures that can help. Can the Secretary of State ensure that apprenticeship data is provided to publishers only anonymously or pseudonymized as soon as possible? Can he also ensure that apprenticeship data is only provided to third parties after the explicit consent of parents? Can he have the College investigate personal data protection whether the use of personal data is contrary to privacy law or children's rights? Is he willing to allow suppliers to answer to schools about their compliance with the Wbp? Is he prepared to promote the destruction of the information already provided and to inform the Court of Justice about it? Is the Secretary of State also willing to involve the parent organisations in a privacy protocol?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u14	Mr. Chairman. "Through a trick, commercial parties, with the knowledge of the Secretary of State, have come into possession of data from hundreds of thousands of pupils. The data is probably not protected. They are negotiable and they can be paired with other files." Thus Werner of Katwijk of OLDERS OF VALUE. At the end of last year we were shocked by a large number of omissions by the Secretary of State. Students' data are in the hands of commercial publishers. A critical report remained under the table for months. There was even a leak in the website where that data is located. The Secretary of State doesn't do much. He thinks all this is fine. There's a very different opinion on that. For example, OLDER'S VALUE refers to a European Parliament Directive, which states that a data subject must explicitly authorise the provision of data. The practice would also be contrary to the Children's Rights Convention and to the School Participation Act. Moreover, the Protection of Personal Data Act states that the provision of this type of data can only take place if this is necessary. I'd like a response to those different criticisms. It is mainly a question of what we actually think is desirable. Kids can't protect themselves. They must therefore be protected. As a true liberal, the Secretary of State leans backwards and states that publishers and schools should solve it. He comes with flyers and a paper covenant and works on the anonymization of data. However, the data are not yet anonymous and therefore unprotected. How naive is this attitude! According to the Secretary of State, publishers indicate that they do not resell data. However, publishers have an interest: they want to make a profit. These data are business. Go with the time, Secretary of State, information is worth money. The Secretary of State has known this for a long time because the subject has been going on since June 2013. The publishing houses then more or less forced schools to supply all the data. The Secretary of State did not intervene at the time and still does not. A greater licence of inability is hardly conceivable. And then there's the mess with PricewaterhouseCoopers' report on the risks. The report was in the Ministry last April, but did not become public until September. In written questions, we asked what that was about. We asked the Secretary of State, did you have that report in your hands in April? The Secretary of State replied: "My officials have had the report since April." "My officials," you can't! The Secretary of State speaks for himself. If his officials have the report, he has it. What does the Secretary of State himself think of this answer? It's not parliamentary. The key question is: why didn't he make the report public as early as April? That's the point. The problems were known. That is why such a report should be a good reason to ring the bell and inform the Chamber. I'd like to get a reaction to that. What can the Secretary of State do to fix the case? He needs to ensure better independent supervision of privacy data. A public body such as the College Protection Personal Data must become much more active in checking that the rules are not infringed. He's supposed to be responsible for the anonymization of the data. Can this be done faster than in the summer of 2015? The Secretary of State must examine whether there has been any resale of apprenticeship data. It should prevent commercial parties from having access to apprenticeship data without the explicit consent of parents. He has to make sure that schools can refuse to participate in such a project. We now have an undesirable situation: commercial parties have sensitive information. Will the Secretary of State ensure that this data is destroyed so that we are sure that the information cannot be misused? I'd like to get a reaction to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u15	Mr. Chairman. The use of digital learning tools can no longer be excluded from contemporary education. ICT is part of our modern society. It also gives education new opportunities. By using ICT, education can respond much better to the individual learning needs of pupils. It is therefore better suited to students' talents and provides teachers with an insight into how they can respond to their students' learning questions. Digital learning thus offers enormous opportunities for education, but it also carries risks. Individual learner data are made more transparent than before, perhaps also for those who do not have a role in the learning process of the learner. Apprenticeship data must therefore be handled with care. The VVD Group attaches great importance to the privacy of students. It also considers it crucial that in ICT methods the school is always preferably the parents, but certainly not a third party owner of the student data. This means, in our view, that data from individual students should not come into the hands of third parties without the consent of parents, as is now common practice in dealing with photos of students. To what extent can the agreement be made in education that parents are explicitly informed and their consent is requested if individual student data goes outside the school? The primary responsibility for these student data is and will remain the school. The College's protection of personal data indicates that schools should have control over their pupils' data and that they should know what happens to them. The school is therefore responsible for the privacy of its student data. However, during the round table on this subject, which took place just before the ceremony, it appeared that the knowledge and expertise in this area are often lacking in schools, while this expertise is present in the sector. This is the case, for example, with Kennisnet, the foundation that provides information and tools in the field of privacy and internet in schools, such as the privacy scan. What can the Secretary of State do to bring this expertise to the attention of schools? Does he think that such a privacy scan should be part of the vision and decision-making on digitalisation in a school? As far as the VVD is concerned, the PO-Council and the VO-Council are also explicitly on this subject. The scale of many schools is too small to organise expertise in the home. The councils could take care of schools. For example, they could draw up model contracts which schools could then use when choosing a supplier. And if a supplier can't get away with this contract, the school better chooses another supplier. The Doorbraakproject Education & ICT is working on a covenant with strict agreements to which suppliers must comply. The monitoring of compliance with the Covenant is also expected to be part of it. How does the Secretary of State view this oversight? Could the College for Protection of Personal Data, for example, get a role in this? Our education digitizes and that is good, but there are risks. We have to recognize this. As far as the VVD is concerned, the Secretary of State will make an additional effort, together with education, to improve the knowledge of schools with the available expertise in the field in the short term. I would also like to mention the encouragement of the councils, for example, with model contracts in the sector, to take care of these schools as much as possible. However, the implementation of these strict agreements in the covenant must also be speeded up. If we do this, we will enable schools to assume their responsibilities in this area and parents will be able to trust that their children will receive good and safe contemporary education.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u16	Ms. Straus says that you should never give away privacy-sensitive information without the consent of the parents. Unfortunately, we have to note that this has happened. How does Mrs Straus qualify for this? Does she recognise that the Secretary of State should have been on top of that much more?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u17	In May, the Secretary of State sent us a letter on digitalisation in education. A paragraph in that letter is dedicated to the privacy of students. In my view, this shows that the Secretary of State does recognise that this subject needs to be addressed in education.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u18	Yes. The Secretary of State also had an apology report, his officials had a report saying that this went wrong. Only a few months later the Chamber was told that because it was posted on a website. I find this rather indifferent. I would like to hear from Mrs Straus how she feels about that. The question now is: how to proceed? Mrs Straus says that no more data can be given without the consent of the parents. However, the publishers already have records of students in their names. Does Mrs Straus share my view that these data should be destroyed?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u19	In any case, I do not think this should be possible in education. If you make information available for example for the development of a teaching method, which I can imagine in itself, you must make sure that it is not traceable to the individual pupil. That's my point. Individual student data should only be used outside the school if the parents give permission to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u20	Mrs Straus says that the VVD also wants to pay attention to the privacy of students and to exclude risks. If she were Secretary of State and she was given a report in which there were major risks surrounding the Personal Data Protection Act and that it was unclear whether that law was being complied with, would she send that report to the Chamber without delay and take action? Or would she consider that information appropriate to put in a desk drawer for six months?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u21	In my opinion, the Secretary of State did use that report, namely to inform us in the above-mentioned letter of May about the fact that privacy with regard to student data in education is a subject he wants to address. That's the point for me. If he had not given that priority to it and there had been no reference in the letter to student data privacy, we could indeed ask the Minister if he has not forgotten anything. After all, this is a very important subject. However, the Secretary of State addressed it in the May letter. So there was no reason for me to doubt that he was seriously working on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u22	I do not feel that the necessary action has been taken at that time. I am glad that Mrs Straus is now at least saying that action must be taken. I'm going back to the point of the data that was processed. Does Mrs Straus agree with me that schools should be assured as soon as possible that they no longer have to send the student data to commercial parties? Does she agree with the CDA that the data which are now in the hands of third parties should not belong there and should therefore be destroyed?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u23	I think it is important that the data available to third parties should at least be anonymised. We should make an effort here. Perhaps Mr Rog could just repeat the first part of his question, because that has slipped my mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u24	It's two things that matter to me. Now the assurance is given to schools that they no longer need to provide the relevant information. They are all good intentions behind the provision of this data, but they are not yet material in such a way that parents and schools are sure that they no longer have to do so, or that they no longer have to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u25	Exactly. One of the things I asked for in my speech is the setting up of model contracts for schools. They can use these in the purchase of digital learning tools. In these model contracts, as far as I am concerned, we need to be clear on which conditions ICT methods should be met. As far as I am concerned, therefore, a school should ask itself whether it still wants to do business with a supplier who does not want to comply with such agreements. So as a school, I would talk to that supplier, to whom I would say: under these delivery terms I want to keep doing business with you, but if you don't want to or can't meet that, I'll go to another.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u26	Mr. Chairman. My children come home weekly with different paper writing, reading and calculation books but the development of digital resources and ICT in the classroom is very fast. That's a good sign, because that's how we get the maximum out of every child. Adaptive teaching material ensures that children who don't understand it so well get some extra exercises and challenges the children who are already a bit further away. In this way, we get the maximum out of that child at each child's own pace. However, this also brings with it new questions, questions about security and privacy. Because children's privacy must always be guaranteed. Data about our children should not, or certainly not, end up with commercial parties without permission and proper agreements. We are therefore shocked by the PwC report. We are shocked by the way in which information is handled about our children and we are shocked by the laconic attitude of the Secretary of State. The PvdA has difficulty with the laisser faire-reaction of the Secretary of State, who states: let market parties take their own responsibility here. We believe that this is a political error of assessment. It's also up to the government to take her role. Kids are vulnerable. They need the help and protection of parents, the school and the state if their rights are violated. Article 16 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child is about privacy. We would like to hear from the Secretary of State whether he is sure that this right is not being violated. Children's privacy is not a subject on which you add a little water to your wine. I say that through you, Mr. Chairman, to the Secretary of State. It is therefore important to think carefully about how we guarantee the privacy of students. It should not be the case that publishers abuse data intended only for teachers. The data must not be traceable to children. Commercial parties have no right to our children's records. That is why we want all data on children to be pseudonymised and for the Secretary of State to give them high priority and speed. As far as we're concerned, we prefer it to be arranged by tomorrow. We need to speed up. This is already happening in secondary education, so it can also be done in primary education. When exactly is this settled and can it not be arranged more quickly, can it not be arranged overnight? Parents should be able to ensure that their children's data are not abused for commercial purposes. PwC concludes that this can still happen. You can't and you can't. Has the Secretary of State also consulted schools, parents and participation councils in addition to the market players to discuss and find solutions, or the parent organisations? As far as the PvdA is concerned, the right to transfer privacy sensitive data must be clearly granted by parents and, in the second instance, by schools. It is necessary that parents and schools know what they agree with and that they clearly know the consequences of sharing data from their children. It must be clear to parents and also to schools under which they sign, because if years later the data can be linked and suddenly come back up, where is the border? Why didn't the publishers directly anonymize the data? Can the Secretary of State explain this? What is the basis for this? Bringing data outside the school goes against the Personal Data Protection Act when this does not serve educational purposes. I therefore have two questions. This place has clearly gone wrong. What else is the CBP going to do to prevent this from happening again? And does the CBP have enough teeth to intervene in this? The CBP can check whether the use complies with the law but can't do anything, so shouldn't cooperation between the CBP on the one hand and the Education Inspectorate on the other, which means that we have an independent supervisor who supervises it? I see I've run out of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u27	Laconic, laisser faire, a political error of assessment: these are harsh words. I'll share them, though. I too do not think that there has been a good deal of action on this issue in general. The data should never have been passed on to the companies. We need to improve this as soon as possible. What does Mrs Ypma think of the fact that an alarming report on this matter in April was apparently only seen by officials and not shared with the Chamber? Shouldn't that have been shared with the Chamber, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u28	Yeah, that should have been shared with the room. I have already referred to this as a political error of assessment, including in the media. The privacy of our children is so terribly important that the alarm bells should have gone off immediately, if I may quote Mr Rog, and that this information should have been shared directly with the Chamber. But the Secretary of State didn't do nothing. Firstly, he has published the report publicly. Secondly, he sent a letter to the House of Representatives which contained a sentence about privacy. So it's up to us somewhere. We might have found that. I believe that too little action has been taken on this report and that this could perhaps have been reported to us more actively. I referred to that as a political error of assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u29	In my view, two things are important in order to improve this case in the future. Firstly, supervision must be improved, as Mrs Ypma herself says. However, she left it to the question whether the College could better monitor personal data. What exactly does she want? Does she demand this, or does she just ask? Secondly, I would like to ask her what she thinks about the fact that the publishers now have the personal data of students. Shouldn't they be destroyed as soon as possible, especially when the case is anonymized?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u30	I have already said that I believe that solutions should be worked on more quickly, preferably by tomorrow. I said this should be arranged by morning. I've put that question to the Secretary of State and I'm waiting for the answer. In addition, I asked if the CBP has enough teeth to put in here. It can see this, but what can it do next? In the first round, I'll ask you something and I won't demand anything. I asked whether it would not be more useful if the CBP were to cooperate with the inspection to continue if this were to happen. If this is noted, it can continue towards schools and assume responsibilities. So I am not in favour of the market being in the lead. Let me make that very clear. It must not be a commercial party that has information about our children. Perhaps it should be an independent public institution, which is transparent and ensures proper and careful handling of our children's data. I would also like to put that question to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u31	That is the end of the first term on the part of the Chamber. The Secretary of State has indicated that he would like to prepare himself for the answer. I'm suspending the meeting for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u32	Mr. Chairman. In another context, too, the Chamber has sometimes discussed the need for the school to be a safe place. The same is true in this case. You can only learn well in a school if you go there with peace of mind. Children and parents should feel safe at school. Parents should therefore have the confidence that their children and data on their children are being treated with care. I therefore consider this careful handling of personal data to be extremely important: the privacy of students should not be called into question. In the first term, some asked in their comments: "Does the Secretary of State take it seriously enough? Isn't he too laconical?" Let me take that misunderstanding away from you right now. It is completely unacceptable that personal data should be exchanged between a school and any other organisation if this is not strictly necessary to provide proper education. There must be no misunderstanding about that. I feel and, as Secretary of State, I am responsible for the system as a whole, for everything that comes into good education. The privacy legislation stipulates that the school is responsible for dealing with individual children's data. That basis has been invested in legislation. We need to be clear about this too, because it is important that schools are aware of this. I support schools and industry councils in dealing with this problem. I'll talk to them when I need to. In that sense, you can say that there is a joint responsibility to make it work. Individual schools are responsible for the material being taken and for the exchange of specific data. The education sector also bears responsibility for this. I say that to Mr Beertema, because I fully agree with him. The sector needs to take action to organise things better and to make a fist against the big parties in the publishing industry. But there is also a responsibility for me. It is a kind of partnership, in which the partners engage in different activities. The most concrete example of this is the Doorbraakproject Education & ICT announced in the government agreement. Many concrete actions and measures take place in this context.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u33	Mrs. Ypma, I see you want to interrupt. I doubt I'll allow it, because the Secretary of State is still working on his introduction. I suggest that he completes his introduction and that I then give you the opportunity to ask questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u34	Mr. Chairman. We expect our schools to provide contemporary and good education. Schools are increasingly innovating and using new digital resources. This morning I happened to visit a school in Bergen op Zoom. I noticed in the conversations with the teachers there that they are enthusiastic about adaptive teaching tools such as Mathematical Garden and Taalzee. They have a lot of that, because it allows them to monitor progress better, faster and more individually. But students also like it very much. They like to work with it enthusiastically. One of the teachers at that elementary school said to me: "Then I give them homework to do four assignments and then they come back the next day and they've done eight." In other words, the use of ICT in schools can be very motivating for both teachers and students. In such a situation, it is necessary for a student to be able to log in to specific programs. These programs run on large servers at the publishers; these servers are not within the walls of the school. To this end, it is necessary and sometimes desirable to exchange a limited set of apprenticeship data. I would like to make this point very clear once again: of course, the necessary safeguards are in place. The data used are based on need to know and not on nice to know from schools to digital learning material providers. That's what we call data minimization; only strictly necessary data, not anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u35	Some introductions are sometimes as long as the whole input. Is this about where your general story ends?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u36	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u37	Then I'm going to allow interruptions. If an introduction takes longer than five minutes, I think it would be wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u38	The PvdA believes that data from children outside the school should never be traceable to the child. The Secretary of State states that information may be excluded from school only if it is strictly necessary for education. The question is, of course, who decides? Can a commercial party decide that it is necessary for education, or is it the parents who are allowed to do so and is it the school that is asking for permission?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u39	The school has to make the decision. The school has access to the data and the school decides whether or not to pass on the data. From a legal point of view, it is also the school's job, not the publishing houses, to make that assessment. If publishers ask too many questions, schools can say no to that. In fact, if publishers do things with that data that they are not allowed to do, then there is a supervisory body, the Personal Data Protection Board, which monitors and can intervene if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u40	The Secretary of State says the school has to make the decision, but parents have to give permission for this, right? If the school's made a decision, who's gonna supervise it? The CPB failed, didn't it? Shouldn't the inspection be watching?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u41	I will look at the legal basis in detail later. These are all questions about where the responsibility lies and how it relates to parents. What information may or may not be passed on and do you need permission from parents at individual child level? May I, with my permission, elaborate on this later? After my introduction I will come back to this in the first block.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u42	The Secretary of State mentioned nice to know and need to know, but the question is: who decides what nice and what need is? In my opinion, it is the publishers who decide.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u43	I do not agree with Mr Van Meenen. I believe that schools should have a much stronger voice in that. They need to think about what data they want to provide. Are the data that may be requested really necessary to set up a good education process? That is exactly what the discussions are about right now. One of them is also here, I will come back to this in detail later on, the feeling in schools and in us that it would be good to ask you, on top of what the law should now do, whether you could "pseudonimize" that login data. When anonymizing, they can no longer be traced back to the child and a teacher can no longer use it. But can this not be done in a way that does not make it clear to the outside world to whom calculation results or language results or tests or games are linked, but that this can only be traced back to the teachers? That discussion is going on in the schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u44	That discussion is ongoing, and we all know it. The publishing houses have created a monopoly position with such a programme as the Basic Port. They decide what to ask, because otherwise you can't participate. That was the essence of the report at the time: schools feel put against the wall with their backs; this is the condition under which you can participate and otherwise you have to deny your children that possibility. That is the position of schools and parents. So I'm going to ask the Secretary of State again: who's going to decide this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u45	There is also a great role for schools. No one forces a school to take anything from a publishing house or to participate in Base Gate. However, the discussions we have with individual schools show that they feel that they are standing with their backs against the wall. They are best satisfied with certain teaching materials in themselves, but they also wonder: do I want to participate under these conditions? What is needed, then, is to organize more in education too, that there is also a counter-force against these publishing houses. If the schools together say to large publishing houses "everything nice and nice, but under these conditions we do not buy in from you," at least they are taken seriously by those publishing houses. This process is only slowly taking place, and for this reason we are working with the PO Council and the VO Council to organise the opposition of schools much better.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u46	I believe that we have already reached the heart of the situation halfway through the introduction of the Secretary of State. Doesn't the Secretary of State mean that he himself has a responsibility to protect children? If schools in their position vis-à-vis publishers cannot provide sufficient counterweight, then it is still the responsibility of the government to protect and assert children: such data is only provided pseudonymised or if explicit consent has been given. Does the Secretary of State agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u47	In the current laws and regulations, what is currently happening is allowed. Login to your own name is not contrary to the rules. That does not mean that it is the most desirable form. I support education even more, I personally think it is better to look at extra precautions in addition to legislation and regulation. They should provide more guarantees for parents and schools. Pseudonimisation is an important part of this. I think that schools can then simply demand that of publishers. They then say: we would be happy to take away from you, but then you must set up your systems in such a way that logging in does not have to be done in your own name but can also be done with a pseudonym.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u48	There is no doubt that the Secretary of State is going to tell us more about pseudonymisation and deadlines. Hopefully he will reassure us on that. My other question is: does the Secretary of State agree with me, after this discussion and after this social debate, that it should indeed be the case that apprenticeship data should only be sent to third parties outside the school after explicit consent from parents? We will be talking about pseudonymisation later; I am now talking about the second.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u49	With permission, because it really is a huge pride: it is part of legislation and regulation. The privacy laws and regulations contain explicit provisions on education. They're in there for a reason. They touch on the subject raised by Mr Rog. I would like to come back to this in more detail later. I actually do that along three lines. I would first like to say something about the legal basis and then about the role of OCW and the actions that have been initiated. Thirdly, I am very explicit about the task, position and role of parents. However, I do not want to do so until I have made another point. I would also like to correct something here. This is about the feeling that some members of the Chamber have been deliberately withheld from a report or have been dusting it in a drawer for months without anything having happened to it. That's an image I absolutely don't share. The importance of privacy and responsible handling of children's data are high on our agenda. It is an explicit topic in the Doorbraakproject Education & ICT that was launched following the government agreement. The PwC report should also be considered as such. My officials were talking to the sector councils and Knowledge Network about privacy, and all sorts of impressions came out like: we do not think that things are going well here and there. At some point in policy preparation, the officials said to each other: shall we insert the thermometer into it to see if we now have everything sharp on the retina? Anything else we might have overlooked? The image that PwC gave was actually perfectly in line with the suspicions that were already there. There are no data on children on the streets, but there are potential risks. The attention, skills and knowledge in schools require improvement. My ministry was already working on all these themes. The report further underlined the importance of and depth of some of these elements. Many of the things we are going to talk about later, when it comes to the role of my department and the actions we are taking, were already in motion before this report was published. We have continued these actions vigorously, even after this report came into my possession and was known to my officials. That was especially because it was in line with the image that lived there. We've actively brought out this report ourselves. Although it is not a report that says something representative about the whole system, it is not so much a report that the Chamber has asked for. It is one of the reports that plays an important role in policy preparation, as there are many of them. Actually, I'm okay with that. This was the result of the Voortman motion, which asked to see if maximum transparency could be given and which called for internal and external reports and preparatory notes that might be interesting and relevant, including to the outside world, to be published in some way. We did that in September and this report was part of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u50	It is worth complimenting the Secretary of State for having this kind of investigation done and for having such a report written. What remains unclear to me, however, is when the Secretary of State himself was aware of this report. I hear him very well, because he says every time my officials were aware of it. I am therefore curious when the Secretary of State himself was aware of this report.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u51	I found out about that and I read the report when RTL came out with it. It also touches on Mr Van Dijk's question about the exact nature of the situation. There's a lot of reports that don't reach my desk. At the same time, Mr Van Dijk is absolutely right that, even though I have not read those reports, I am 100% responsible for them. I am also 100% responsible for everything my officials do. It is good to show the Chamber that there are reports in the policy preparation, that they are taken into account, that they do not all reach the Secretary of State's office and that they do not all go to the Chamber, but that they can play a role in that policy preparation. That's how things turned out here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u52	It is to the credit of the Secretary of State that he admits this in equestrian terms. I think it is a problem that a report on such an important subject should not reach the Secretary of State until so late. And again, there's no reason to add water to the wine when it comes to the privacy of our children. This means that the Secretary of State sent the report directly to the House of Representatives. I want to thank him for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u53	It is good that this report has been requested and it is also good that it has been issued. I am sorry to say that the report has indeed been in a drawer for six months. That's what worries me. Does the Secretary of State share my conclusion that, given the nature of the risks and the extent of what is described in this report, the report should have come directly to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u54	I am really opposed to the image presented by Mr Rog, as if this report had been in the drawer for six months. That's just pertinently not right. This report has been discussed in detail, with the PO Council, with the VO Council, with the publishers, with all those involved in that breakthrough ICT and education project to see what this means. It also fits in with the feelings that were already alive and the themes that had already been picked up. If that is the case, then the question is whether it has not been a proper balance, and I support that for the full 100%, to say: this is a report that confirms the picture, and we are simply going to continue doing the things that are necessary to overcome those risks. We are going to support schools with covenants, with model workers' agreements and with a route where it will also be technically possible to pseudonymise children's data in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u55	It is good that the Secretary of State or, in this case, his officials take the initiative. That's what the conclusions are for. So it's a good thing that happens. However, my question to the Secretary of State was: do you agree with the knowledge of today and the conclusions drawn in the report that you should have sent this report to the Chamber earlier? That is the question, and it would be a credit to the Secretary of State if he recognized it here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u56	I disagree with Mr Rog. This is a quick sample rather than a representative image. My officials said at that time: it is in line with some of the images we already have. You would have had a point, and I would have been angry, and I would have taken full responsibility for that if there had been a critical report that had not been dealt with. However, I have always been informed by my officials that there has been a hard work on a system that has been pseudodonized, that has been working on employee agreements and that privacy has been a very pregnant and explicit theme in the Doorbraakproject Education & ICT. I therefore believe that only good choices and considerations have been made.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u57	I was riding my bike this morning and I thought: what would the Secretary of State answer the question as to why that report was in a drawer for six months and why it was not sent directly to the Chamber? Then I thought of the following answer: well, Mr Van Dijk, there are so many reports that my officials have to work with; it is a sample; it is not representative. Et voilà, we'll be told. But there's something crazy in it. The Secretary of State rightly says: this is a big problem, there are risks and the privacy of students is very important, so it is good that my officials have started working on it. But then he forgets the parliamentary rules, doesn't he? It is precisely because it is so important that it is not so difficult to say now: yes, it should have gone to the Chamber in April, because it is a big problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u58	I do not agree with Mr Van Dijk. We have taken up this theme, also in the framework of the Doorbraakproject Education & ICT. You have already been informed of this on other occasions. I think it is important that we work on the things that we have described and which are necessary to overcome some of the risks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u59	I get a bit of a measured answer: we're working on it. That's the answer. But look at the RTL broadcasts, look at the unrest that has arisen among parents. All these parents say: we would never have wanted my child's data to just go to commercial companies. And actually, the Secretary of State says he understands that. Then it is not so difficult to acknowledge now: yes, that has not gone well lately and we are now going to do everything we can to improve it? By the way, he has already said that. But that hasn't gone well lately, has it? Does the Secretary of State dare to acknowledge that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u60	I also disagree with Mr Van Dijk's view. The image that much has gone wrong, or the image RTL sketches that the data of one and a half million children are on the street: it is not! PwC's report shows a number of risks. I don't have any concrete signals of child data misuse. I do think that more needs to be done with awareness, but we knew that before that. The entire coverage of RTL, ironically, has contributed to this, because parents and schools are now more aware of it. I believe that the conversation about the careful and conscious way of dealing with data exchange in a digital context can and should be conducted more frequently in schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u61	I did not intend to comment on this point anymore. I have already said in the past that the report has reached the Chamber late. That is what I did when I asked for this debate. I note, however, that the Secretary of State takes a somewhat double attitude. He says that it was a limited report and that all kinds of action has then been taken. He would've gotten mad if nothing was done. With the PO-Council, the VO-Council, the publishers and everyone else, the meeting took place, while the Secretary of State knew nothing. All he knew was that people were working on privacy. That is a good thing! I see it as follows. There's gonna be a brilliant report that says there's a lot of trouble. Officials go to work and talk to all kinds of representatives. Then it is quite extraordinary that both the Secretary of State and the Chamber did not know that this was the cause of intensive discussions with all those representative bodies?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u62	I think the order is important. The actions mentioned did not start after the report was there. The Doorbraakproject Education & ICT started shortly after the start of this cabinet. Then the theme "privacy" immediately came on the table. All kinds of themes were quickly identified that could play a role, including the theme referred to by Mr Rog and Mr Van Meenen: how do you provide enough resistance from education to the publishing sector? How do you make sure that your schools are relieved by working with model agreements? This has been looked at together with the sectoral councils, the network of knowledge and many other stakeholders. At a good time it was decided by the official organisation, the PO-Council and the VO-Council that it was necessary to examine whether something might be overlooked. For this purpose, in four schools, PwC looked at the issues in practice. The image that came out of it was consistent with the image that everyone already had. It was also in line with the actions already under way. The image that there was a solid report and that was then put to work is not correct. A lot had already been set in motion. The report was a validation to see if we had a sharp focus on everything. That's what turned out to be the case. Then there was a vigorous work on the things that had been started earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u63	If everything was in focus, there was no need to investigate. An investigation was conducted into Base Gate and how that worked. The report showed that there is actually nothing to it, if it is seen in the light of privacy. It's really special that no alarm bell was ringing, not even with the Secretary of State, but that they just continued the conversation as if nothing had happened: we were already working on it, good to know that it's a mess but we're just going to continue with it. Again, I was not going to say anything about it, but by continuing this round of questions, I also have doubts. Suppose there is another report, that there is another investigation which should initially be supportive of the policy but which gives rise to some alarm, is the Secretary of State prepared to share such reports with the Chamber in future?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u64	Let me refer to Mr Van Meenen's question in which he asked me if I am prepared to look at it sector-wide for once. Then you get a representative picture, which according to the researchers concerned says something about the sector. Then you have a reliable, valid picture of what's going on. That investigation is ongoing. Mr Van Meenen gets that, too. In fact, he gets that in the very short term. I believe it will be completed within a few months.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u65	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u66	I would like to begin with the three important blocks I have just mentioned. It should be absolutely clear from a legal point of view that schools may exchange a limited set of personal data with publishers if necessary for educational purposes. That affects a number of questions the Chamber has asked. The touchstone is always: is this necessary to give good education? The Personal Data Protection Act allows schools to process personal data to the extent necessary to carry out their educational tasks. The basis for this is Article 8. This allows them to process these personal data even if it is necessary to use digital learning tools properly. The exemption decision of the same law even contains a specific provision, Article 19, which states that schools for the processing of data for the provision or provision of teaching materials do not have to report to the CBP, because it is actually a matter of exemptions for what is called evident processing. Schools may also involve other parties, such as publishers, in the performance of their tasks, provided, I stress, there are good agreements and a processor's agreement underneath. Parties must also abide by this. I think that parents should be more closely involved. I would like to come back to that as a separate issue in the last block in a very specific way. Publishers may not use that data for other purposes themselves. Think of reselling, storing too long or having more than a limited set of data. That too must be absolutely clear. We can observe that the handling of personal data and the obligations arising from it, including from the law, are not always easy for an average school. With the PO Council and the VO Council, I believe that the school is responsible for the personal data of students, but we can support the schools in this, for example by clarifying matters and helping the sector to organise things better. Even then, we have to face the fact that we can never make systems complete 100%. There will always be security risks. This is no different for schools and for educational providers than for many other sectors. It's actually a social problem. Also in education we suffer from hackers, people who want to search data illegally and who are looking for security breaches. It is important to take appropriate measures together to avoid incidents as much as possible. That's what's happening now. I am not aware of any major incidents in this area. But we could just as well say it's gonna go wrong sometime. During the round table, for example, they talked about the hacking of Magister. It's part human work, too. If people are sloppy about passwords or when people take USB sticks from which they don't know who they are, and they use them in computers on which, for example, apprenticeship tracking systems run, there are risks. Then there's the laws and regulations. On this subject, I drew some conclusions from the round table held by the Chamber. Several parties have indicated that the law as such offers sufficient guarantees, but that there is a need to improve its application in practice, the knowledge of schools and the practical way in which it is handled carefully. Quite specifically, Mrs Ypma asked how the way in which it is now regulated relates to the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Hasn't that been violated somehow? I think I can reassure Mrs Ypma: that is not the case. The Treaty lays down the obligations which the State must comply with. One of those obligations is that the State must ensure that no child is subject to arbitrary or unlawful interference in his private life. The Netherlands complies with that Treaty provision, for example by the Personal Data Protection Act. It includes safeguards for the careful processing of personal data, including those of children. This means that we in the Netherlands offer sufficient legal guarantees to ensure this. The question is, of course, always how that works out in practice. That's how I get to my second block. I see it as my responsibility to support schools and industry councils. I mentioned the breakthrough project. An organisation like Knowledge Network is financially supported by us. Knowledge network makes concrete handles and is always a question mark for schools. Schools that don't know can visit a website that contains a wealth of information. The sectoral councils also have an important role to play. I work with them a lot on this theme. They will provide schools with the necessary knowledge and support, so that schools are better able to fulfil their responsibilities. I will return in the very short term, early February, with a more comprehensive overview of what the Doorbraakproject Education & ICT includes. Privacy is an important part of it, but it has several other parts, which will be at least as interesting for the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u67	The Secretary of State mentioned Knowledge Network, which has the Knowledge Network Federation. This is a "single sign on" portal with which education can approach different applications. The privacy is guaranteed. So these matters are settled by the Knowledge Network Federation. How on the other hand can something like Base Gate occur? That's not going to develop from this. Many schools go along with this, so there is an alternative.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u68	That market is hugely diverse. Also outside of Basic Gate several publishing houses offer things to schools. It is up to the schools to choose what they want in the sea and under what conditions. That is why I have been to schools that have said: we have been forced to take the base gate. I said, no, you were there, you could have just said no. The portal of Kennisnet is in its functionality still fairly limited. I think the solutions should be broader. I would like to indicate a number of things that I think are more widely applicable. Maybe the most important of these is.............................................................................................................................................................. That which is issued is often first name, last name and date of birth. The question is whether you can minimize that further by using pseudonyms.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u69	I welcome this reply from the Secretary of State. I would like to point out to him that there are new entrants in this market who say pseudonymisation is already old-fashioned; you could leave that data with parents and allow them to use it individually. Is the Secretary of State aware of these new developments and, if so, is he going to include them in the agreements that are now going to be made in education so that it will also become a kind of basic set of framework conditions that schools will use when they start working with ICT resources?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u70	I think you should always look at this kind of thing and look at all the new possibilities that exist. I don't know about this development yet, but I'm gonna get into it seriously. This is without prejudice to the fact that I still believe that working towards pseudonymisation can help enormously. Mrs Ypma said this: I prefer to see it tomorrow. Well, that goes for me, too. At least we're working on it. I'll say something about the timetable later. It is also quite complicated to do so. If you want to do it in a good way, in which all these systems continue to operate in the publishing houses and where when a child moves from one school to another, not all his data are lost, that also in a technical sense requires quite a bit. I already talked about the main theme of pseudonymisation. I really think it is very important that we move forward now. There's a call running right now to see what conditions it has to meet. Then it should be designed and tested and then the final rollout could be in 2016. The introduction of such a pseudoname or number must be done carefully. The pseudonym must be safe and reliable when it comes to ordering, paying, delivering and giving access to learning material, but also when a child moves. According to a conservative estimate, there are soon about 60 parties in primary and secondary education and the MBO who will soon have to adapt their systems, ranging from administration packages to apprenticeship tracking systems, digital learning environments, publishers and distributors. All these parties have to test. Procedures need to be adapted. Besides, it has to go well at once. I do not want to think that students will not be able to access their material, that it will not be an airtight system and that it will not work properly, because then schools, parents and students will have a big problem. ICT projects of this size and for this purpose require time. This is perhaps one of the most important conclusions that the Elias Committee has drawn from us recently. Let me be clear: I have no interest in letting it last a day longer than is strictly necessary. So speed is important as far as I am concerned, but care and quality are perhaps even more important to me in this process.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u71	I'm very glad to hear that. I also think that the Secretary of State has no interest in making it last longer. At the same time, he also explains why it's quite complicated. I quote him: all systems in the publishing industry must also continue to operate. But that's exactly where the problem lies. I believe that the Secretary of State has too much regard for the commercial interests of these parties and has too little regard for the privacy of our children. I believe that this Secretary of State should ensure that, preferably tomorrow but at least before the beginning of the next school year, all children have pseudonymised data. If he doesn't agree to that, I'll table a motion on this. Because how is it that on my phone call I can just improve that software every time with software updates, but this isn't possible with that student data?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u72	I am absolutely not concerned about the commercial interests of any party. I'm talking about good systems. This also requires technical development and testing. Before you roll out a system all over the Netherlands, you have to try it for a while, because sometimes mistakes come up over time. We see that all large companies that work with applications that are widely used by customers, by customers. In this case it is used by schools, parents and students. You can't go ice cream in one night. From a technical point of view, too, I am not talking about commercial interests at all. I can't break iron with my hands. I say to Mrs Ypma: I'm on top of it and put my best people on it. They're already on this. I will not be prevented from saying that this costs money. They're gonna have to make that investment. However, I do think that we should take the time to test the technique properly, design it further and let it run.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u73	Of course this has to be done properly. I agree. However, I do think that we should do this as soon as possible. There are all kinds of new techniques. Mr Straus has just pointed that out. We've got Kennisnet. This can already be done. So it can be done in all kinds of ways. I'll make one last attempt. If there is a will to speed it up and to make this project a real breakthrough, can the Secretary of State undertake to ensure that the student data has been pseudonymised before the beginning of the next school year?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u74	The timeline is getting more and more ambitious. This was initially planned for the end of this calendar year. Now we are talking about the beginning of the next school year. That's six months earlier. I can't break iron with my hands. If I could, my answer would be "yes" immediately. However, I must also protect the people who are doing this. I also ask for some sense of reality from the Chamber. A parliamentary committee has recently said: be careful not to let the planning of this type of complex ICT projects be too guided by the political will and look at what is realistic. We must be careful to ensure that it actually works, otherwise we may have a much more complicated debate here on a much larger issue. To this end, it is unrealistic to assume that this will be possible in 2015. 2016 is a very ambitious timetable. We really need to do everything we can to get it. Mrs Ypma has said that it is already happening in other sectors. I checked that, of course. She referred, for example, to secondary education. What happens there does not provide any comfort for full-time education. Also in secondary education, digital packages are currently being used, with just being logged in with first and last names. A good and closing system in which that pseudonymisation is also pseudonized is not available. Then maybe we'd just copied it. So that's really something that needs to be properly picked up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u75	It must be anonymised or pseudonymised as quickly and properly as possible. I have no doubt that the Secretary of State will do the same. The follow-up question is: what do we do with the personal data that the publishers now have? After all, they are still traceable and so on. Just because of the danger of a leak, the risks of the data being misplaced, you should therefore want the publishers to stop having that data or to destroy it. Does the Secretary of State share the view that this is what we should strive for?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u76	I think this is an important point that I will also take into account in the discussions we are having with the PO Council, the VO Council and the publishing houses on how this can be properly designed. There are two sides to the story. On the one hand, you want to see how a child develops. If you destroy everything there is, you would have lost that information immediately. Then everything starts all over again. On the other hand, you want, of course, if we are going towards pseudonymisation, that applies immediately to everyone. If that is possible and if that is also the wish of the schools and, for example, of the National Parents' Council, then I take it very seriously. Then that must also be included in the agreements with the publishers. However, I would also like to look at this with them, because it is a consideration on the one hand the maintenance of that transit line, the view on the development of children, and on the other hand the question of what to do with the old, not yet pseudonymized data.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u77	The answer does not reassure me at all. The Secretary of State keeps some success to the arm and refers to the National Parents' Council. If the Secretary of State is going to talk to parents, I would say: talk to OLDERS OF VALUE and to the VOO. Shouldn't he say by himself: should these data of course disappear, because that is dangerous? Even if we assume the good intentions of the publishers, there is still a risk of a hacker, of a leak, as has even been the case. So we have to get rid of that. That is also possible, because at the time of pseudonymisation, those data are no longer relevant. Then we, as politicians, have to say away with it, in the trash can!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u78	I think we should be careful that politics says: get rid of it. Let's take what schools want. They themselves said they wanted to go to pseudonymization. Let us also involve the parents. How do they look at it? I think it's okay if things are thrown away, for example, when a child goes out of education or takes a next step, or if a school decides not to use a particular method anymore. However, if a school wants to use the same method, it also wants to see something about the continuing line in development. I fully understand Mr Van Dijk's point. I will bring that to the attention of the House. However, I am not in a position to do so, because I have not yet been able to hear the schools and the parents about it. Perhaps it is also technically feasible, I say immediately to Mr Van Dijk. After all, we could also consider whether everything that is now registered could be pseudonymized. This must be done in a careful way, so that the final name is not traceable. That is above all a question of technology. I hope I have answered Mr Van Dijk sufficiently, otherwise...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u79	We also have the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u80	Pseudonimisation is an important point, one of the biggest points, but it is not the only thing that is happening. In addition to the technique of pseudonymizing, better agreements between school and suppliers are at least as important. That is why we are currently working hard on a covenant and a model employee agreement that will give schools concrete products that directly lead to improvements in practice. The agreements are concluded by the sectoral councils on behalf of the schools, initially with the providers of teaching materials and information systems, but we foresee that the operation will extend to all parties with which schools exchange information. The covenant must ensure that it is clear who has what role and what direction and duties one has. The starting point is that the school directs the data and the provision of it to other parties. The covenant shall also address data security, information by parties and retention periods. I say to Mr Van Meenen that one of the most important things is that schools are relieved. Schools are responsible and deal with complex legislation and regulations. This is also true in many other areas. I refer to legislation and regulations in the field of labour and labour. It helps, of course, if things become available from the sector, so that we can say to the schools: if you do it this way, if you use these contracts and make these agreements, then it is well and properly arranged. It is important that there is a great deal of support under that covenant. This is an important condition for compliance. I suggest that when the covenant comes, we refer it to a number of parties. I am thinking of the College of Protection Personal Data, the experts in that field, the National Parents' Council and the Children's Ombudsman. The Children's Ombudsman has been critical in the last few weeks. I have been in contact with him today and I have talked to him about what process is going through with the covenant and the model editing agreements underneath. He likes to watch, also to ensure that all parties are aligned. Mrs Straus asks why schools are not making sufficient use of the expertise already available at the moment. If you look at the website of Kennisnet, you will already see a lot of things that can be used. I think this is partly about awareness. Privacy is still insufficient on the retina and there is still insufficient knowledge about the laws and regulations. In other words, there is common sense. That is also very often good, but it brings with it risks. We can reduce them by organising it better and more professionally. I just said something about the investigation. At present, there is a representative study under schools to see where they stand and what their knowledge is. I'd like to do that research later on with the agreements that come out of the covenant. I also believe that they should be monitored. It must be monitored somehow so that we know what is happening and that we can keep our finger on the wrist. Ms. Ypma asked why the publishers didn't peudonize the data directly. This also has to do with the fact that the provision of a pseudonym must be done by a party trusted by everyone and which is actually outside the publishers themselves. I also think that property should be in the schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u81	Mrs Ypma has a question on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u82	I agree that these data should be from an independent, reliable party, so the schools themselves should be. But basic gate isn't from the schools, is it? That's from the publishing houses, isn't it? That's where the data is now. So am I hearing the Secretary of State now pleading for an independent public organisation where these data are located, à la Kennisnet?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u83	There's data and data. It's important that we keep it apart. Publishing has data, for example how children make arithmetical sums. They need them. Take, for example, Mathematical Garden. When a child is very good at summing up, it gets more attention on the parts in which it is less good. These are adaptive systems, which contain the data that publishers need to ensure that the teaching material works properly. The question is whether a publisher should also have the identity: who is the student sitting on the other side of the screen? From the first, I can imagine that publishers should have that data. The second can be said to be even more limited than is currently the case. Publishers don't get a whole bunch of data now either. Often it's just the name, first name, last name and date of birth, but you could minimize that even further by assuming a pseudonym. The information on this pseudonym must of course not lie with the publishing house but with the schools or with another organization that organizes it for the schools. But the learning development, under the label of the pseudonym in question, can still be edited and analysed by the publisher.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u84	At the very end of my first term, in response to Mr Van Dijk's input, I argued that there should be an independent public institution, an institution that is transparent and that ensures good and careful handling of the data of our children. If I understand correctly, I hear the Secretary of State pleading for that, too. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u85	Not quite. There are things you have to distinguish. The supervision of the sector lies primarily with the Personal Data Protection College. That's the enforcement agency. I do not think that this should be the body that also has personal data at its disposal. Secondly, I think that when asking where which personal data should be allowed to go, you should look closely at whether those personal data are really needed somewhere. So do we as a government. We had a discussion here not so long ago, for example, about our own system, Source, which contains a lot of information, such as a student number and a student characteristic. Again, we always assume that as a government we want to know the minimum to be able to do our supervision and our work properly. This should also apply to schools. Schools should not ask parents more than they themselves need to be able to provide good education. This also applies to publishing companies. Publishing should only get what they need to ensure that a child can work well with a teaching tool. Asked is whether you can't find some sort of big organization that's safe and in which all that is. That may sound very familiar, but it also brings with it a very great danger. If there is a break-in, then we really have a problem. So that's an organization that has a lot of data on children. Who's gonna run this organization? I do not know whether parents and schools feel very comfortable when there is a kind of government that not only keeps track of a child's educational number and not only looks at the diplomas that it succeeds, but also knows exactly how it makes its apprenticeship follow-up tests or tasks in the meantime.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u86	Mr Van Dijk, do you have a question on the same point?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u87	Yes. The Secretary of State sketches some sort of big brother situation. Of course, we don't want any of them. On the other hand, we do not want our children's data to lie with commercial parties. That is what the debate is about today. After all, they can also have an agenda. How can the Secretary of State reassure us? How is the monitoring of this information improved?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u88	That happens in a number of ways. It's preemptive. Much can and must also be done in the front to ensure that the foundation is good, that there are good worker agreements, and that schools in conversations and in contracts with publishers do not agree on the transfer of more data than strictly necessary. At the moment, model agreements are being worked on in the covenant. In my view, that is a first, very important condition. Each party must then comply with the law. The school must abide by the law and the publishing company must abide by the law. We have a watchdog in this country in case things don't happen. The College Protection Personal Data can look into that. Mrs Ypma's question was what the CBP could do. It can intervene, enforce and pass fines. Those fines go up to ensure that the deterrent effect is only increased. By the way, in the recent past, we have seen that a company is really on its feet. This was done in the specific case of Snappet, a small publishing house. That shows there's a lock on the other side.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u89	You can see in recent months that there is a great deal of concern and that there are many differences of interpretation. The Secretary of State says that the transmission of data is okay. Others say it can't be done. So you could almost say that there is a legal discussion about that. There is also a complaint about the passive action of the Personal Data Protection Board. For example, it only looks afterwards and would have too few staff to be able to perform properly. Does the Secretary of State recognize that? And is there any way to make CBP more active in monitoring privacy issues in education?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u90	I don't have that impression. I have also had the impression in the preparation for this that the CBP wants to co-operate. The CBP says it doesn't just want to hit people afterwards if things don't go well, like some kind of watchdog or policeman. It is much more important to ensure that this is properly regulated in the elaboration of good machining arrangements. There is therefore less to maintain, because everyone then adheres to the law in a good way. On the contrary, I have the impression that the CBP is fully prepared to think with us and to look with a model processor's agreement. That's what it said. On the contrary, I have the impression that the CBP has the full willingness to consider such a model processor's agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u91	I asked the Secretary of State if he would like to put the question to the CBP as to whether these personal data could be processed and whether the provision of student data would be contrary to privacy law or international children's rights treaties. I hope that the Secretary of State will be able to take this question with him in his first term, because that may prevent me from having to table a motion on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u92	I have just indicated how international regulation and children's rights in the Netherlands are anchored in the Wbp. I have no reason to believe that it would not be right, but perhaps I can reassure Mr Rog by explicitly checking it again with the College of Personal Data Protection. I suspect that this debate will be even more open-minded and that I will have to inform the Chamber in writing. If that is the case, then I will return to it in writing. Mr. Chairman. I've already said something about the teeth of the CBP. In this context, Mrs Ypma made a good suggestion when she asked whether the CBP and the inspection were working well together. That is a useful suggestion, because the inspection during her visits to schools encounters things. The inspection can thus perform an important signal function, including towards the CBP. As an independent supervisory body, the CBP does not comment on the indications it receives and on what investigations it does or does not do. However, it is important that the CBP gets signals if something is not quite right and the inspection can play an important role. I will look into how these two organisations can get closer together. Ms. Straus asked if it was an idea to work with privacy impact assessments. We have been doing this for a long time, on the basis of existing legislation and regulations, precisely because we think it is such an important subject. However, I can also imagine that it will soon be laid down in the covenant and the model agreements that agreements should be made on this at school level.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u93	The Secretary of State refers to the covenant and the model agreements, and I would like to ask him another question because it is not entirely clear to me. Will this covenant only be concluded between the providers of Basic Portal and the parties to education or will this covenant be the basis for all agreements with ICT service providers in education? In other words, should new service providers also shape their new developments on the basis of the covenant?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u94	We are trying to make it as broad as possible. The wider and the more support there is, the easier it will be to live up to it. So we are looking beyond basic gate. But there are always new parties. Every day someone can decide to start their own business. Maybe it also fits in with the principle of privacy by design. In my opinion, you should be able to make good agreements with industry, industry and publishing companies on how to make privacy part of the development of a system from the very beginning. But of course we do not have the publishing houses in this country on a string of strings. What we can do is to ensure that the sector makes a collective statement on this issue. If education were to say unanimously "we are only taking away from parties who meet here, here and here or who work with privacy by design," that would be a tremendously powerful signal. I suspect that the market itself is going to take action, because a company does not comply with this, then it no longer sells any package or subscription.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u95	That's exactly what I'm looking for. How can we agree on such conditions for privacy that individual schools can use them as a model that they can place with an ICT provider of learning resources? A school should be able to say, "Listen, we want to do business with you," but if you're going to develop a program for us, you're going to have to fill it out this way. Is this also the intention of the covenant that the Secretary of State intends to conclude with parties in the sector? That's what I was looking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u96	That's definitely the point. Of course, it always helps to reach agreement on this. Education can send out a very powerful signal but then spend months doing stinging with publishing houses. If schools are no longer able to use these teaching packages, they also have a problem. I would therefore prefer to see the parties agree as widely as possible on the framework within which this should be done in the front, in a covenant. Education may be more profiling in this. It can make its demands stronger on the table. In any case, that has my full support. Mr. Chairman. Before I move on to the specific theme of involving parents, I would like to comment on Mr Van Meenen's question as to whether a privacy month will also be organised this year. In fact, at the RIP, which starts next week, there is a state of play in this regard. Later in the year, too, there will be a time when more attention will be generated in schools on this subject, in addition to all the sections that are already going on and which I have just spoken about. I come to my last point, involving parents. I think it is very important for parents' representatives to be involved in the creation of the covenant and in the implementation of the system that is going to work with pseudonymisation. In the short term, I will talk to parents' organisations about this in order to ensure that this approach is taken into account when making agreements. In addition, I think it is important that schools inform parents about the use of personal data of their students. We must be clear about that. According to law, schools now do not have to ask parents for permission to use personal data in the context of education. That is without prejudice to the fact that it is wise to do so. I also have some ideas about how that could be done. I'll come back to the individual request for permission. As I said before, there is an independent basis for processing personal data in law for schools on the basis of their educational tasks. For example, if schools employ an administrative office to collect a parent's contribution, no separate consent from parents is required. Schools may keep track of the progress of pupils in a apprenticeship system. That is what they need to shape their education. They do not have to ask parents for permission to do so. That rule applies to obvious processing of personal data that data subjects know or can reasonably know take place at the school. Requesting parental consent would not be an appropriate basis for the processing of this data. Parents do not really have a choice whether or not to grant permission, if the consequence is that their son or daughter cannot follow the education, cannot participate in the classroom. The solution lies in something else. For schools, it is a matter of being very transparent to parents and students about what happens to personal data and about what data is used for what purpose. The school, in coordination with the parent, is the party that determines the conditions under which other parties may have data. The school determines that and, again, not the publishing company, not the provider. I agree with Mr Van Meenen's suggestion. He asked if your parents could give a voice and a role in something like a privacy regulation. With the new Wbp, the privacy regulations have been abolished. It's no longer in the Personal Data Protection Act. However, schools are free to work with such privacy regulations, and actually I would find that very sensible. And if they do so, the Law on participation in schools gives the participation council the right of assent to such a regulation. I think this is a typical agreement on which the whole sector should say that it considers this to be such an important issue that it wants to return it as an explicit point at school, Mr Van Meenen. It should say that it wants to make clear agreements on this, so that it can answer to the parents, and that it wants it to go through the co-determination council, with the right to consent at that time, and certainly the right to consent.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u97	Mrs Straus asks her question in the second term on the part of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u98	The next item is the second term of the debate on privacy in education. I give the floor to Mr Van Meenen of D66. I would point out to him, even though he knows it, that he has two minutes' speaking time, including the reading of possible motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u99	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his reply and the warm words he spoke about participation. That's very important. I also welcome the sector-wide research that is coming. Moreover, it is good to see once again that we share the view that digitalisation and learning resources have a great future in education, even if there are risks involved. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the use of digital tools such as apprenticeship follow-up systems and learning resources will continue to increase in the coming years;]] [[Considering that the privacy of students as a result of increased digital resources is increasingly under pressure;]] [[noting that the National Cyber Security Centre concludes that the potential impact of cyber attacks and disruptions is increasing due to further digitisation;]] [[calls on the government to ensure that digital tools in education are made according to the principles of privacy and security by design,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Meenen, Straus and Ypma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32034-7]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u100	Since Mr Beertema has waived his second term, I now give the floor to Mr Rog.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u101	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State, who has indeed shown in this debate that privacy is a concern to him. At the same time, the CDA Group regrets that the Secretary of State has not shown the understanding that he should have sent PwC's report to the Chamber earlier. That report does contain important conclusions. This shows that schools cannot provide sufficient counterweight and that there are risks associated with basic support. It is also unclear who collects exactly which data for which purposes. A State Secretary who is aware of this should share such information with the Chamber. I therefore hope that in the second term the Secretary of State will acknowledge that he should have done so and that he will do so in the future. The CDA wants to be able to rely on that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas schools provide students' personal data to suppliers and developers of digital teaching material in order to be able to offer personalised learning resources;]] [[Whereas it is sufficient for such developers and suppliers to have pseudonymised data from pupils to provide personalised teaching resources;]] [[noting that schools do not seek permission from parents for the provision of pupils' personal data to the abovementioned parties;]] [[calls on the Government, together with the educational field, including the parent organisations, to make agreements:]] [[how, in the shortest possible time, it will be ensured that students' personal data are only transmitted pseudonymised to suppliers and developers of digital teaching material;]] [[that, in the case of pupils' personal data, this is only done with the explicit consent of the parents;]] [[and inform the Chamber of the progress of these agreements by March 2015 at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Rog. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32034-8]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u102	Mr. Chairman. Much has been set in motion to protect the privacy of students and that is good, but it seems that this is mainly due to a news broadcast by RTL. It wasn't until after that broadcast that the situation accelerated. The officials of OCW may have already been in the process, but the Chamber and the Secretary of State were not aware of this, because the Secretary of State considered that he did not need to inform the Chamber. That makes an extremely indifferent impression. The failure to send an investigation is skillfully downplayed, but it is choice. Either the report was important and should have been sent to the Chamber, or the Secretary of State did not consider the report important, but made an error of assessment. Choose, Secretary of State! I shall table a motion with the Labour Party on better supervision. She'll read to Mrs. Ypma later. Finally, I myself have one motion on the destruction of personal data. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that commercial companies possess pupils' personal data;]] [[whereas the pseudonymisation of this data is being carried out so that there is no reason for publishers to possess the personal data;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that pupils' personal data are destroyed in the hands of commercial companies,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32034-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u103	Mr. Chairman. Apprenticeship data must be handled with care. The VVD attaches great importance to the privacy of students. In recent years we have also regularly sought attention for the privacy of student data. For example, during the debate on the central final test, we tabled an amendment on this point. I thank the Secretary of State for his answer and have one more question. It's about his proposal for a privacy regulation. Could the privacy impact assessment also get a place in that? The Secretary of State will be working to further develop these regulations and may consider them. Above all, we think it is important to have agreements, model contracts and delivery terms, which make the privacy aspect very clear and which schools can use in agreements with ICT suppliers. As far as we are concerned, this also applies to new suppliers. Education could use this to ensure that the privacy of this section is guaranteed. Education must stand for the privacy of its students. Sometimes a school is just too small for that. This type of standard arrangement, which is made on a national scale in the sector, can help to join forces. This is very important to facilitate the progress of ICT in education further and securely.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u104	Mr. Chairman. Who exactly oversees the privacy of our children? That is the question we have discussed. I thank the Secretary of State for his answers, but I still have three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the monitoring of apprenticeship data has not been satisfactory;]] [[believes that this should not happen again and that there should be a strong, decisive and independent supervisor;]] [[calls on the Government to ask the CBP and the Education Inspectorate to jointly monitor the privacy of students and to intervene in possible abuses,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas pseudonymisation of apprenticeship data is achieved as soon as possible and is given the highest possible priority;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure, as soon as possible and in any event before the beginning of 2016, that each pupil is given a unique digital identity and that the data of individual pupils are peudonized,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that schools should remain responsible for the data on their pupils;]] [[noting the need for proper and careful management and storage of these data;]] [[calls on the Government to shape a central organisation that oversees the collection and storage of student data from the public interest and closely and publicly supervises the privacy of pupils,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ypma, Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mr Van Meenen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32034-13]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Ypma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32034-11]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ypma and Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32034-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u105	With the last motion, we want to give the school board as responsible the opportunity to make sharp agreements and to check that these agreements are respected. That's how the Secretary of State can read the last motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u106	This brings to an end the second term of the Chamber. The Secretary of State would like to prepare himself very briefly for his reaction to the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u107	Mr. Chairman. Mr Rog and Mr Van Dijk asked me whether I would like to revise my position on the report from the first deadline. I don't think that's necessary. I don't agree with it either. I think we still have a difference of opinion on this. The main risk mentioned in the report was at that time worked to resolve it. One or two months after the report has been published, the processor agreement with Base Port has also been completed. That was set in motion before then. This also supports the story I've been telling before. I'm going into the motions now. About the motion-Van Meenen c.s. in piece No. 7 I say: Judge Room. In addition, I would like to make the point that I do not, of course, have the publishing industry on the line. So I can't force publishers to do all this. There will be no laws and regulations, but I would like to make an agreement with the schools that they will only take away from publishers who comply with these principles. If I may explain the motion in this way, I can agree with it and leave the judgment to the Chamber. The motion in part No. 8 belongs to Mr Rog. I can fully support part of that motion. That's the point under one. The second point, however, leads to unworkable situations, as I have just said. Because in the meantime, if schools of parents have to ask for individual consent for digital learning materials and two or three parents in a class that doesn't give consent, what are you going to do? That leads to unworkable situations. There is therefore all the more reason to ensure that this discussion is over, and this can be done once the system of pseudonymisation has been put in place. In the first part I can therefore agree, but in the second it is not explicit. That's why I have to discourage the motion. I come to the Jasper van Dijk motion on part No. 9. Sometimes a suspension is useful, because then you can contact us about something. I have just suggested to Mr Van Dijk that this is something that can be included in the covenant. Once pseudonymisation has been achieved and nothing substantial is lost for students, we can proceed with this. I shall therefore leave the motion to the Chamber. I see this motion as a policy support. I fully agree with the operative part of the Ypma motion in part No. 10, and a little less in the preamble. If you want to do justice to the College's protection of personal data, which, by the way, has very recently significantly intervened with one of the publishing houses, you cannot say that supervision has failed. Having said that, you can sometimes come to the same assignment for the future from different angles. I think that's what we're in the Chamber for: what are we going to do to improve things? And then I find the cooperation between inspection and CBP I assume that in the motion the CBP is meant to help.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u108	I'll adjust the motion as follows. The Court now considers that the monitoring of apprenticeship data should be improved. I left the operative part.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u109	The Ypma motion (32034, No. (10) has been amended to read as follows: The Chamber, heard the debate, noting that the monitoring of apprenticeship data has not been satisfactory; calls on the Government to ask the CBP and the Education Inspectorate, to jointly monitor the privacy of students and to intervene in possible abuses, and goes to the order of the day. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She's getting No. 13, was No. 10 (32034).
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u110	Then we'll find each other completely. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u111	If the motion is changed this way, the verdict on the motion is...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u112	Judgment Room. I come to Mrs Ypma's motion on item No. 11. We had a wide-ranging discussion on "as soon as possible." I fully agree with that. However, in the motion as it has now been formulated, it says that every student must have the unique number before the beginning of 2016, i.e. in 2015, and can therefore work through the system of pseudonymisation. I really need to be honest about that. I hope the House will understand that this is irresponsible. It's not realizable; we can't make it. The real path, which is a very ambitious path where nothing should go wrong, is that we can make sure that it is there this year. At the beginning of 2016 we can then get started with a first cohort of students, not yet with all students, to see if it works properly. If it is working properly, it depends of course on the test phase........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ I think this is a real timeline. I hope it will be sufficient for Mrs Ypma, because unfortunately I have to discourage her motion in this form.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u113	I thought I was meeting the Secretary of State, because "before the start of the new school year" I made "before 2016. I'm in a bit of a tough spot. The Labour Party wants this very much; it very much wants speed. The Secretary of State says it can't be done. I just don't get it. I think that with conversion tables and all kinds of other things it should be possible soon. I also do not understand how long it is necessary to test, and for which groups what should happen when. I would therefore like to continue this motion and ask the Secretary of State to put on paper exactly what the planning is and why each stage should take so long. Then I can leave it with other experts to ask whether it is true, because I think the Secretary of State and I want the same thing, and whether there is really something faster to organise.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u114	That seems like an elegant solution. I would like to invite Mrs Ypma to take a look at what is going to happen and to talk to those who are already working on this route, because a programme of requirements that has to be met is already being discussed in detail. That may give great insights.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u115	Given the nature of the question that preceded this commitment, I would like to ask the Secretary of State if he can indicate when that planning letter can be sent to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u116	I think it's okay to take a week or three for that. We are now at a crucial moment, because the award of contracts is made in a format for which it has to meet precisely. It follows how long the steps must take afterwards. If it does not have to be within a week but within three weeks, I can really give the Chamber more in depth information that adds to the debate we have just had.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u117	The letter will therefore be sent to the Chamber within three weeks; thank you for this commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u118	Finally, I would like to comment on the motion in part No. 12. I must also dissuade them in this form. There's a few things playing with it. In order to have a proper system of pseudonymisation in the future, it must be done in the form the author has just mentioned in the explanatory statement to the motion. It shouldn't be in the government and certainly not in the publishing houses. It should be well organised by the schools, which should then organise proper monitoring and monitoring around it. This motion calls for one more thing, namely a very large database. It would not only contain what is needed for the pseudonymization application, but actually all the learning data of students. Then you get a huge file. I shouldn't think of anything going wrong with that once. For dealing with the security of personal data, the rule is that you do two things. The first is that data may be in one place if it is strictly necessary for good education or working with a particular learning method, and nothing more. The second is that there is as much dislocation and detachment as possible. As a government, we always try to detach and link up a lot, but for the security of personal data that is extremely risky and it can be very good that there are very small bits in different places, without being in a large database for which one party is responsible. My impression is that the motion is actually aimed at the latter. With this motivation, I wouldn't advise her.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u119	I don't think we're that far apart. I'd like the school board to be really responsible. We now have the base gate, but there is very little monitoring from the sector. I want Basegate more under surveillance in the sector. That is why I would like to amend this motion. I call on the government to ensure that the base gate will be brought more under the supervision of the sector. Can the Secretary of State live with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u120	I think that is an interesting point, but I would almost like to go wider than just the base gate. I think that, if a covenant is to come about with clear agreements on where the responsibilities lie, it should not be blindly trusted that everything will be all right afterwards. I think the PO Council has also hinted at this in its letter. The PO Council is not entirely clear on this. He's also talking about public oversight, but I don't think that's what the government means. In my view, the sector itself wants to ensure that the agreements made with publishers are respected. If that is the case, I can go a long way with it, but it does require a slightly different text than it is now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u121	Fine. Then I'm gonna change the text, because this is exactly what I'm trying to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u122	Okay, then the Members here know that the motion in part No. 12, if it has been adapted in this way, is left to the judgment of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u123	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u124	That concludes the debate... Oh, no, Mrs Straus has something else to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u125	In the second term, I asked a question about the privacy impact assessment. The Secretary of State has not yet answered that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u126	Now that Mrs Straus is rushing to the microphone, I see it on paper. Fortunately, I can also make Mrs Straus happy. As far as the privacy regulations are concerned, I can very well imagine that you, as a school, are also looking at the role of a privacy impact assessment. I'll take that with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-9.u127	The votes on the motions tabled will take place next Tuesday.
