ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-21.u1	It is quite remarkable that there are three legislative proposals on the initiative, all of which have been made by Mr Van der Steur. I would therefore also like to welcome the initiator, Mr van der Steur, in the cabinet, with his support, because he has had some support for three legislative proposals. I would therefore also like to welcome Mr Fred Schonewille, Mr Dennis Hesemans, Mr Jasper Boon and Mr John Bosnak. I also welcome, of course, the Minister for Security and Justice tonight. All are here to listen to the first term of office. At a later date, Mr Van der Steur, I assume, will again be assisted by his support, respond to what is to be said here tonight. Of course, I would also like to welcome the people in the public gallery, as well as the people who are following this debate in a different way. I give the floor to the first speaker in this debate tonight, Mr Van Oosten of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-21.u2	Mr President, you mentioned that we are discussing not just one initiative legislative proposal this evening but three initiative legislative proposals. I've been told, but no doubt the Registry knows much better than I do, that what we're seeing tonight hasn't been shown before. There has never been a Member of Parliament defending three legislative initiatives at the same time. I think it goes without saying that this is an appreciation, at least from me, but no doubt several colleagues will start to say similar words; it could not be otherwise. The substance of the legislative proposals is, as far as I am concerned, absolutely positive. When I observe our legal system with some distance, I notice two things in particular. Access to justice is often expensive. I am thinking in particular of the often rather high legal costs when you cannot use legal aid or when you do not have unlimited financial resources. I also notice that our legal system has been designed in such a way that if you are a defendant and you think someone is entitled to claim something from you, you are in fact forced to proceed to an infinite degree, let me put it another way: until our highest court. These are two observations in our legal system, which, of course, can also be said to be very positive. However, if I relate to this bill, I believe that Mr Van der Steur's legislative proposals respond to these concerns. Mediation helps to speed up access to justice at, hopefully, lower costs. The initiator himself writes that the law returns to parties. This is without prejudice to the fact that I do have a number of questions and the necessary points of attention. Despite all my appreciation for the work that has been done, I shall walk by. Let me begin with the aspect of the "relational dimensions." For example, the initiator describes it in the documents and so we read it back in the adaptation of the Code of Civil Procedure. One of the three legislative proposals, the legislative proposal on the approximation of civil law, introduces the criterion of disputes with a relational dimension. Under this, the initiator, you could say at least, includes a large number of disputes. What does the initiator think is not covered? Now take the example of a collection procedure. Someone's made a commitment and doesn't pay. Is there mediating about that? I don't think so: you have that obligation or you don't have that obligation. From my own law school I remember the case of the batch of oranges that was delivered. Two parties fought for the right to supply those oranges. Mediation provided a nice example of how mediation can work, which one party did not want to have the total amount of oranges, but only the juice of the oranges. The other party wanted the peels. I do, however, ask how often this is the reality and these are precisely the points of law that keep the parties divided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-21.u3	I hear Mr van Oosten raise a number of points of law. Does anyone owe that claim? Is it about the juice or the oranges themselves? But isn't the essence of mediation that you can talk about a much wider range of issues before you put that question to the judge? Someone might know he has to pay, but they don't want to pay. Someone may have to pay the whole claim, but asks if there is any talk of how. Someone knows he has to pay, but the other guy did trick him into another case. He doesn't want to start a separate procedure for that, and that's why he's suggesting that they can't solve that with each other. In short, is the example given by Mr Van Oosten not appropriate for mediation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-21.u4	It could be. I don't dispute that at all. However, I note that the legislative proposal as it is now drafted represents an incredible amount of relational dimensions. I have already put forward two examples where I cannot rule out the possibility that there may be a reason to test mediation, but I cannot rule out the possibility that it is not. If you limit the sec to the question of the law itself, as with the lot of oranges, and forget for a moment that there may still be a world behind it, then the question arises to me: would such a case as such always lend itself to mediation? I think it's good to say that here in this house tonight. That is why I would also like the initiator to specify this in greater detail. I would also like to say something about this: I would also like to hear examples of the initiator in which mediation would not work, whereas he considers these situations to be mediationfähig.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-21.u5	I'm still trying to feel where the VVD is. It seems that she says that also the examples that Mr...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-21.u6	From East.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-21.u7	That's right, I wanted to mention his first name. It seems that the VVD says that the examples that Mr Van Oosten has just quoted may also seem appropriate for mediation. It is precisely where you have a single question of law that you can put it in the form of a partial dispute, because that is also one of the elements of this legislation. So should you not conclude that, even if you think you only have a very factual question of law, mediation can be an appropriate instrument if both parties so wish, and that you should at least try it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-21.u8	I do not necessarily share that, not least because the voluntary aspect of mediation will be ignored very quickly. That is another aspect on which I would like to ask questions. I can imagine a lot of legal examples. I have now mentioned two of them, where there is a question which reads as follows. Did you make a commitment or not? Did you sign up or not? Have you entered into a contract with an obligation to deliver, yes or no? Was delivered, yes or no? There's not much to mediate about that. You can say that you are bringing in a world, but then it should also be part of the question of law, and that is not in any case in the examples I mention. This does, of course, illustrate that, I think, it is no harm to the initiator of this aspect in his answer which explains in answer to the question of which examples can be understood and which can not be understood, not least because I see that it is a bit unusual to include such a trit of relational dimensions in the Code as such. I can imagine that it might be much better in the explanatory statement or in any other explanation. Then you can put the context, something that Mr Recourt and I have already talked about, much better. Then I come to the voluntary nature, because I would also like to pay some attention to that. As far as I am concerned, it is perfectly justifiable that the law actually carries the obligation, at least as I read it, to investigate whether mediation is an appropriate means in a dispute that divides the parties. That is exactly what Mr Recourt and I were just talking about. It is good to think about whether there is perhaps more to it than the single question of law that divides the parties. Is mediation a suitable means? In that respect, I can see the point of further motivating it in procedural documents if mediation is waived. I think this is particularly beneficial for the relationship between the legal adviser, usually the lawyer, and the client. The legal adviser will then have to explain to the customer why mediation, which in some cases can work faster and can be cheaper, does not work anyway. That can be good, because the client can then fully appreciate his own process opportunities and the costs involved. However, I do believe that the obligation to investigate, to put it bluntly, should not result in the firm commitment to undergo involuntary mediation. I believe that mediation is inherent in the fact that the choice to resolve a conflict must be made on a voluntary basis. I therefore ask the initiator, as I also read in the documents, to confirm explicitly once again that his proposals do not include any firm obligations for parties to engage in mediation in a conflict. That also means, in my view, that no one can be forced against his will to sit at a mediator's table. After all, as the initiator replied to a question from me, senseless mediation is no use. As my group looks at, the added value of anchoring in the law is that mediation becomes a much more acceptable tool for resolving disputes in a responsible and safe environment. That is the value of this and I fully appreciate it. But once again, I would very much like to see the initiator, also for the sake of the Acts, mark that no one is forced against his will to initiate mediation. I recently read a very nice article by Peter Ingelse in the NJB. He made a suggestion in that area, namely an amendment of the law. I should like to hear the reaction of the initiator.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-21.u9	I'm just trying to taste what the VVD group wants. We are talking about the mandatory nature of a number of things. Do I understand correctly that the VVD Group has some comments on whether it is effective and smart in all cases? Is that how I'm supposed to understand the questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-21.u10	I think Mr Schouw is hearing what I am saying. I'm saying I don't think senseless mediation is useful. So there can be no "something new" either, because that is what the initiator writes to me. Hard obligations to undergo mediation are expected. I would like to hear that the initiator repeats this as such.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-21.u11	I'm trying to figure out what that means, because it's complicated enough. The law now before us has a mandatory character in a number of matters. I understand that the VVD Group does not really like that, and that it asks the initiator to explain again exactly what is happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-21.u12	The hard obligation to undergo mediation against your express will, I would not consider desirable. But the need to explain and consider whether mediation could have added value in a specific legal dispute is the great value of the anchoring of the three legislative proposals proposed by the initiator.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-21.u13	Mr Van Oosten asks a number of very relevant questions about the mandatory nature. He also stressed the voluntary nature that is important to him. Suppose the initiator would reply to Mr Van Oosten's question that it is not mandatory in all cases to apply mediation. That's interesting, but it's about what's going to end up in the law. I am referring specifically to Article 22a. There's a whole bunch of disputes in there. Mr Van Oosten himself says that it is unusual to include in the law any disputes which may be dealt with by the application of mediation. Can't you actually read that as an obligation? Of course it is good to put the question to the initiator now. I am not asking Mr van Oosten to say today that he will support my amendment on this point. However, you cannot do it alone with the answer. After all, it's about what's going to be in the law. Does Mr Van Oosten agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-21.u14	Not directly. Mr Van Nispen knows as well as I do that the Acts are part of the legal history. That's happening tonight. Mr Van Nispen also heard what I asked the initiator. I asked him to comment on Mr Ingelse's article in the NJB. If I recall correctly, there is some similarity to Mr Van Nispen's amendment. I'm curious about his reaction to that. I would like to outline the outlines which I and my group consider relevant, namely that we consider mediation as an instrument of our legal system to be of great importance. It is faster, cheaper and more efficient in many ways. I say right away that mediation stands or falls with the voluntaryness and willingness of the parties to participate. I have not seen the initiator make any other kind of comment in the documents either. There are three not insignificant legal texts, with explanatory notes and so on. I therefore find it very valuable that the initiator, whom we regard as our legislator, in the discussion in this Chamber, makes it quite explicit that he sees it exactly as I see it. Well, at least I know I didn't read it wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-21.u15	I'm gonna have to deal with that now. Then I have another question. Mr Van Oosten began his speech with a number of observations on the legal system. He said, for example, that it is not right for a defendant to be involved in procedures infinitely. I understand that, but what I don't quite understand is how this proposal can prevent it. That is what Mr Van Oosten said. Can he explain that to me?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-21.u16	Our legal system is now designed so that when the plaintiff subpoenas someone, he can theoretically take the defendant to the Supreme Court. That's not necessarily wrong, but it's my observation. If the plaintiff is unsuccessful in court and subsequently in appeal but is nevertheless convinced of his own equalness, he can do so. The day-to-day is taken in, for he must defend himself, unless he says he's gonna let it go and take his loss. He must also consider that he has to pay a lot of legal fees and so on. That's my observation. I am opposed to the usefulness and added value of mediation. I'm trying to explain.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-21.u17	Mr Van Nispen, I understand that you would like to ask another question. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-21.u18	I asked how this law could prevent that. I don't think that's possible. It is indeed sometimes very unfortunate that the defendant is involved in it infinitely. We share that feeling, but this law can't solve that, can it? That's what got me confused for a while. Mr Van Oosten suggested that this law could prevent this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-21.u19	Excuse me. I've made an observation of our legal system. That is our legal system. That doesn't change with this law. This law, however, offers an instrument in our legal system that is, in some cases, very suitable as an alternative to the long, almost endless way of proceeding. In some cases this will not be the case, but that is the added value I see in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-21.u20	Mr Van Oosten said that the Acts are also part of the legal history and can provide a more detailed explanation of the legal article with that list. That's right. However, it is not the case that the Acts and thus the legal history can set aside the text of the article of law itself. It's at best a clarification. If the initiator will answer the question of whether or not the list is exhaustive, does it really have to be in it? Is it clear whether the article itself contains a restrictive list? Can I understand Mr Van Oosten's remarks in this way? Otherwise, his reasoning doesn't add up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-21.u21	My reasoning saw on the other aspect that I mentioned and not so much on the relational dimension that was in the previous block. She saw whether mediation is voluntary or not. I would very much like the initiator to explain once again what I have read about this in the documents. That is an explicit part of the Acts. That's what I've been trying to say. I also asked questions about the relational dimension. Mrs Helder heard me ask those questions. I asked the initiator: would that not fit more in an explanatory statement than in the law? That's the suggestion I made. I am curious about the reaction of the initiator in this regard. After all, I do have some questions about that. Mrs Helder heard me ask those questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-21.u22	I do not think the answer is entirely satisfactory, because I have just understood Mr Van Nispen's reply to the interruption, but I am well aware of it. I am also waiting for the initiator's answer, because I think it is a very interesting issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-21.u23	I was in the block "voluntary character mediation." I have a few other questions to ask. Article 111 of the proposal deals with the information to be provided on why mediation would not have been attempted. In my opinion, it is interesting to know how much and what information is considered sufficient. I would like to receive a response from the initiator, Mr Van der Steur. What does he consider to be the risk that the information to be provided to the court could affect the judgment of that court on the dispute? Would he take this question directly into his answer? I'll be on another block. It's about the right of asylum. I found a letter of amendment during my preparations for this evening's plenary session. As a result, the Act promoting mediation in administrative law, one of the other two proposed laws, would not apply to intended decisions under the Foreigner's Act. I think that is a sensible addition. I note that there is no mention of this in the explanatory statement. Could the initiator specify the reason for excluding foreign law in this context? I would also like to say something about public order. I hope the President will allow me to do so, but I can see that I still have time for that. I have a number of questions about the judge's test on Dutch public order. That test is included in the bill and should result in the result of a mediation being provided with an enforceable title only if no conflict with Dutch public policy is established. How far, if I may put it that way, is that test going now? I find the answer to that question interesting. How can we prevent, for example, that very improper aspects of legal systems which we see here as contrary to our public order, perhaps aspects of Sharia, from being introduced into our legal system by means of mediation? Is that prevented by that test? What measures other than that judicial review can still be envisaged in this context? I would also like to receive a response to that. I'd like to deal with a few more separate issues. This concerns first of all the flight hour requirement. Several mediators in the country are either very positive or quite negative about this requirement, although no one disputes that a certain degree of experience and skill is a necessity in order to exercise mediation in a good way. The requirement as proposed now means that a mediator must do at least 12 mediations of an average of ten hours before being eligible for entry in the register. Can it be specified what that hour requirement is based on? I am told that this is a high requirement to be met. Would a lower number of hours actually and substantially reduce the quality of mediations? It is also mentioned that they need not only to be lawyers but that they can also be psychologists or communication experts. It is therefore interesting to know to what extent alternative knowledge may be introduced rather than that hard number of hours of flight time in order to be eligible for entry in the register. In other words, when can previous practical experience take place? When I am talking about lawyers other than lawyers, I have already pointed out between the rules that I find that interesting because the added value of these legislative proposals is that other than lawyers engage in and contribute to the resolution of disputes that divide the parties. Nevertheless, the initiator writes that in many cases some legal competence seems to be conditional but that you can then, if possible, deviate to an external legal force. Then I note that one of the presumps I have at least myself, namely that mediation could generally be cheaper, will be under pressure, as you have to hire a lawyer again. How can it be prevented that, as a result of some of the legal knowledge that is considered necessary, the legal profession will dominate this profession? That is not necessarily wrong, but I find it interesting to see that there is also an opening for lawyers other than lawyers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-21.u24	I would just like to say that I welcome this comment by Mr Van Oosten. Could it be a solution that you will now write in the bill about legal affinity instead of legal knowledge? If it says "knowledge," we can set up a whole tree about whether it means someone has followed a LOI training chip or whether it means someone has been promoted in law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-21.u25	I don't think the suggestion is wrong, but again, I'm not the author of this bill. We assume that the initiator listens carefully. I can imagine the added value of this suggestion. I would've stayed in disciplinary custody. Quality and skills are also secured by the establishment of the register. I would like to be told again by the initiator why that register is precisely necessary to guarantee that quality. I understand, but it might not hurt to get that explanation again. Could a label of the industry itself not meet equally well? Why are we talking about disciplinary law, for example, and not complaint law? I'd like to get a reaction to this. I come to the obligation to buy. This concerns the administrative part of the three legislative proposals. When I read the relevant bill, I notice that some government institutions are obliged to use only registered mediators for mediation services, which are actually most government institutions, if I understand it correctly, and that private parties are also free to use unregistered mediators. Why are some public institutions obliged to do so and others not required to do so? Which state institutions are these exactly? Finally, I would like to put another question to the Minister. I think we can do that, too. At least he's in trade-K. I'm interested in the Minister's opinion on the plans before us. What aspects might this also depend on the contributions of other colleagues who have not yet been addressed and would require attention from the Minister and the Department's point of view? What aspects have been overlooked so far, at least by me and perhaps also by colleagues?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-21.u26	Mr van Oosten, you spoke very nicely to the author about the fact that he is defending three legislative proposals here. It is absolutely special, but Mr Van Nispen, who is already ready to go to the chair, knows that it is not unique, because a party colleague of his, Mrs Kant, has done so before. But it's very special.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-21.u27	Mr. Chairman. Whether it's unique or not, I do find it special. So I too would like to begin by expressing my appreciation for the efforts made by the initiator and all his supporters to put forward these legislative proposals. That has indeed been a huge job. Mediation is also a good theme: parties resolve disputes themselves with the help of a professional, often reaching a sustainable solution. The three laws we are discussing today are separate from each other, but they also have a mutual connection. I do have something to note or to ask about all the legislative proposals. I am not undividedly enthusiastic about everything, but I am neither negative nor negative. I will come back to this, of course. I shall begin with a few comments on mediation in general and the three legislative proposals in their context. Then I will look at the three legislative proposals separately. That requires some speaking time, but the author has done a great deal of work, so that obliges us to look at this very seriously. I shall begin with a number of general comments and the three legislative proposals in their context. The SP is certainly in favour of the parties themselves, whether or not using a mediator, reaching agreement in a dispute and not only finding a solution, but also resolving the underlying dispute. At the same time, the SP stresses the need to ensure access to justice. Anyone who wants to go to court should be able to get a ruling there. In response to questions, the author says that there is already a great deal of satisfaction among the people who have applied mediation, but that the problem is that too few people think about mediation when faced with a dispute. The solution to this is found in these laws. With these laws, the petitioner wants to achieve a cultural change. I do not really think that this is a VVD solution: more rules and regulations achieve a cultural change. This observation does not relieve me of the duty to make a thorough assessment of these laws, but I have already said so once. The Advisory Section of the Council of State is critical. The section supports the idea that citizens and businesses are, in principle, responsible for resolving conflicts themselves and that mediation often prefers to go to court. However, the Council of State fears the opposite effect of the legislative proposals: significant judicialisation and, in cases where mediation has no result, unnecessary delay and higher costs. The Council of State also mentions the risk of failure at a time when pressure is being exerted on parties to participate in mediation. In certain cases this is not or is not entirely voluntary. What has been done about this criticism by the author? I have been looking for it, but the changes made are not so far-reaching that this criticism has completely lapsed. Or am I wrong about that? The Dutch Bar Association has similar criticisms. The order supports the principles of these legislative proposals, but does not support their elaboration. The order is particularly critical of the change in civil law. The author repeatedly says that he regrets that the lawyer does not embrace his proposals. I get that. However, he keeps saying that they need to see the opportunities. Of course he can, but attorneys, fortunately, aren't always just thinking about their commercial interests. It is also a question of justice and the interests of the parties. That criticism should not be pushed aside too easily, if they were to stand up for their own interests alone. These proposals increase access to justice, according to the applicant. I know what he means by that. He means that law also means that people come out together, that the dispute is eliminated and that people can move forward together. Of course it is. But if you look at the access to justice in the more classical sense, namely that you get an attorney awarded by the government if you can't afford it yourself and that you can go to court despite having a narrow scholarship, it's not very good with this cabinet. This initiator is jointly responsible for this with his party: savings on subsidised legal aid and higher registry rights. I hope to be able to speak quickly about the non-continuance of the cuts in subsidised legal aid. It is good news for the rule of law that access to justice is maintained. However, we are not having that debate here today. It has everything to do with access to justice. I will not ask the author to comment on this particular point, but the Minister is, of course, free to comment on it. I now come to the first of the three legislative proposals that I would like to discuss separately: the Registry Mediator Act. You can be entered in the register for mediators if you have experience as a mediator and meet the quality requirements to be determined by General Measure of Management. You'll be a registry medic. There is a definition of mediation, the swearing-in and the rights and obligations of registry mediators, and disciplinary justice is organised. I can go a long way with the author in the regulation of this sector. It is important to be able to rely on the quality of the mediator. However, I still have a question concerning quality requirements, because complex specialist problems also come to the attention of mediators. At AMvB, the training requirements or qualifications of certain mediators will have to be completed later. It seems clear to me that you cannot expect every mediator to have the same legal knowledge as specialist lawyers. Take, for example, a complicated divorce involving the distribution of assets involving real estate, a company, pensions and all kinds of complex asset structures. Are we expecting nothing from the mediator in this area? Can you really, as a general mediator, not being a lawyer, intervene without any knowledge of the substance of the matter in this legally complex divorce? I don't think that's possible, because you can't figure out which way it might go with a judge. How does the petitioner view this? How will the Registry Mediator Act contribute to ensuring that no legal accidents occur? How does the Minister feel about this point? How does the Secretary of State view this AMvB? I hear from various mediators that they are concerned about the quality requirements that prescribe a certain number of hours of experience: the flight hours, which have just been mentioned. In itself there is nothing wrong with a certain amount of experience, but is the bar with 120 hours and/or 12 mediations in the past year not a bit too high? My sincere question is whether there are sufficient mediators to meet these requirements and the requirements laid down in the transitional arrangements. I have been told that this will not be the case, at least not in all jurisdictions where mediation can play an important role. If that is the case, I think that is a problem, because there is a risk that there will be a shortage of qualified mediators. This applies, for example, very specifically in tax law, but there may also be other areas. How does the petitioner view this? I have tabled an amendment which reduces the number of hours of experience to a realistic number. We can then always see in the future whether this number can be increased. I also have a question about the basis for this bill. I know that the author has often consulted, asked for advice, etc., but what has been done with all these opinions and how much support has been given? How did the consultation phase go? Can the petitioner fill us in on that? We have, for example, received a strong letter from ADR Register, representing 500 alternative dispute settlement bodies in the Netherlands. ADR Register explicitly renounces this law and calls it a bad solution to a non-existent problem. This bill would lead to higher costs, bureaucracy and fragmentation and would not contribute to improving quality. We are getting more signals that mediators are not entirely happy with this bill or, in some cases, not at all. What about the basis for this law? Can the applicant go into detail on how this is in the profession? In the preparation, many questions and comments were asked about the involvement of the government. 'Cause it's big. That does raise questions about the independence of the registry mediators. The minister is given a great deal of responsibility by the initiator. The Minister shall draw up rules on the establishment of the mediation committee, which the Minister shall advise. The Minister shall appoint the members of the committee. The Minister may reject the nomination from the profession. The Minister may also suspend and dismiss the members of the committee. The members of the Advisory Council are also appointed by the Minister. In addition, the Minister is responsible for the nomination of the members of the Disciplinary Board. I wonder if all this isn't a lot of good. The applicant could also ask. He has been pointed to this in the preparation of various directions, for example by the Dutch Order of Lawyers. The Mediators Federation of the Netherlands is not happy with this either. It considers that the independence of the profession is not sufficiently guaranteed, especially in comparison with other professions in which independence from the government also plays an important role, such as the legal profession, the notary and the judiciary. How does the author weigh these objections? Is he willing to take another critical look at this? How does he see this in the future? At what time can the Minister withdraw and more be left to the profession itself?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-21.u28	Mr Van Nispen has a number of questions at 120 hours. He wonders what that amount is based on, how this should go and whether it is good. He then tabled an amendment proposing 60 hours. What's that number based on?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-21.u29	That's a fair question. I've consulted with certain mediators. They say that the requirement of 120 hours will mean that, for example, there will not be sufficient qualified mediators in the field of tax law who can meet that number of hours. Then there won't be enough mediators. In consultation with a number of mediators I came up with this number. That is indeed a halving of the applicant's claim. I admit it is not a scientifically substantiated demand. I have also seen Mr Klein's amendment. In this, he leaves it to the Minister to set a number of hours for General Measure of Management. I am also seriously considering this possibility, because I think it is an interesting idea, even if we give it completely out of our hands. We will then leave it to the Minister to re-examine the debate on a realistic demand. So I am open to suggestions or insights about the right number, but my point is that the applicant's requirement is at least too high. I expect there will be enough qualified mediators if we halve that number.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-21.u30	I would like to thank Mr Van Nispen for precluding the amendment I tabled. That number of 120 hours has indeed been taken out of the sky. At least that is how I see it; the initiator will probably support this number in his reply in the first period. Mr Van Nispen's 60 hours are as good as falling out of the sky. The question is therefore whether it is wise to lay this down in the law, while a little later it appears that it would have been better to have been 40 hours. Then we're gonna change the law again. Perhaps then we will find out that 120 hours is good after all and then we will change the law again. Is that Mr Van Nispen's view of the legislative process?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-21.u31	No, absolutely not. Thank you for this question. I don't think it's right to change the law every few weeks if insights change again. Of course, it's a fair question what exactly the number of hours is. Mr Klein has a point. He doesn't have a problem saying it's all falling out of the sky. With my amendment in Article 55 on transitional arrangements, I have joined what is currently common with MfN, the Mediators Federation Netherlands. That's what three mediations and/or twelve hours are all about right now, but that's probably the exact hours you lost on mediation, the number of hours you lost on the table. Of course there is more to it and that is why I have taken over what is common at the moment. As far as I know, it hasn't led to any complaints. The transitional arrangements are based on current practice. I agree with the author that I also think that in the long term the number of hours of experience can be increased. At the end of the transitional period, this number can be increased. In my amendment, Article 3 points out that this number is indeed increasing. Then it's about supervision and disciplinary justice. It is not quite clear to me how the monitoring of the registry mediator has been organised. Disciplinary law is written down, but not supervision. What should you do if you're not satisfied with your mediator and you want to file a complaint? Do you have to go straight to the D.A.'s office? There is something missing from me at that point. At the lawyer's office, there are some steps ahead of that. The applicant calls the disciplinary law itself an ultimatum remedium, but what is the non-extreme remedy? If you file a complaint with the Disciplinary College, it will not be dealt with immediately. No, because before dealing with a complaint, the Disciplinary College allows the complainant and the Registry Mediator to come to an agreement in a mediation. That's what Article 38 says. If you're so mad at your mediator, I wonder if you're still up for that as a complainant. Article 39 provides that Registry law is to be levied in order to be able to lodge a complaint at all. The SP doesn't support that. The lodging of a complaint must be accessible. I have two questions about this. Why hasn't a financial threshold been waived? If you introduce a provision that manifestly unfounded complaints can be quickly completed in writing by, for example, the chairman of the disciplinary committee, you can waive the right of registry. That is why I have tabled an amendment on that point. If you choose the law of the court of registry, why isn't it connected to the amount that is customary for the lawyer, namely €50? Depositor proposes to use €75. I'd like to know why that didn't work out. Then I come to the second law, mediation in administrative law. In terms of numbering, this is the third law, but I'll discuss it as second. I'm most excited about this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-21.u32	Mr Van Oosten has another question on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-21.u33	I was wondering if Mr Van Nispen could indicate how his party is looking at the possibility that other than lawyers could practice this profession.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-21.u34	I sincerely have my doubts about that. I have raised the question of what we expect from a mediator in very specialised matters, which raises all kinds of very complex questions. Maybe not the same as the specialized lawyer, but at least knowledge of cases. You have to have some insight into how this procedure goes. Maybe you don't need to be able to fully predict the outcome, but if you can't interpret certain concepts, I don't see that right in front of me. I'm really saying this with all due respect, because it can get very complicated sometimes. I find this really complicated and I would like to hear what the author thinks. I think the presence of legal knowledge should be recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-21.u35	Recommend it or really a condition? I myself find the charm of the bill that this area is more than just the appropriate legal system. That's why I'm assessing the extent to which you're moving along with that. I think it would be good for the initiator to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-21.u36	There's a reason I didn't just get mixed up in the discussion. I think it is a very difficult point. There's something to say that a mediator is a trial counselor, so he also has all kinds of other skills, so he doesn't necessarily have to be a lawyer. However, it is about conflicts that can end up in court in the long term. I can't quite imagine how to do that. I come to speak about the bill on which I am most enthusiastic about the three: administrative law. The SP has often criticised the way administrative bodies deal with citizens. My group has often called for a speedier picking up the phone. It is also appropriate that administrative bodies sit around the table more often with people to see how a solution can be found. The new handling of cases in administrative law is in line with this. This means that the judge will examine what is important to parties and see whether a court ruling serves the interests of the parties. So there are already positive developments to report. The question in this connection is: what is this bill still needed for? The VNG states that this bill does not add much in a strictly legal sense. I would like to hear the reaction of the author. I believe that there is a need for clear standards in the law. The initiator himself talks about a codification with the new article 8:41a General Administrative Law Act. However, perhaps the standard in Article 2:4a is even more important, which states that administrative bodies have an obligation to prevent disputes with citizens through early and active communication. That is quite rightly the norm; I certainly agree with that. However, does the mere inclusion of that standard have any effect? Is that gonna lead to anything? The author expects the cultural change that I have already mentioned. That seems very optimistic to me, but I hope so with him, of course. He also says that it is not a question of an enforceable right. So one cannot go to court if one finds that a municipality has not done its best to get out together in a simple way. However, it may eventually become part of the general principles of good governance. Still, I don't quite understand that. These general principles of good administration sometimes play a role in the courts in everyday practice, don't they? Can the complainant explain exactly how he sees this? What good is the proposed new provisions in the General Administrative Law Act? In my opinion, the question I raised in the written preparation on the position of stakeholders has not been answered clearly enough. My question was: what do we do with other stakeholders once the governing body chooses mediation? Suppose my neighbor wants to place a rooftop, but I don't want to and object. Then there will be an administrative dispute. The municipality will then take my neighbor into the mediation process. Then what's my position in that? The municipality can involve me in this; that is a possibility. However, because it is a decision, the municipality can also choose to keep me out of it. Is that desirable? Are there examples of situations where it is desirable not to involve stakeholders? In my view, this means that no final settlement of the dispute will be achieved, which is the intention of this law. That's what I meant by this question. That is why I think it would be better to say that the governing body should, in principle, give the interested party the opportunity to participate in this mediation, otherwise you will get a bit of a crazy situation. That is why I have the amendment to item No. 11 submitted to the bill 33727. I'm here to talk about the latest bill on mediation in civil law. With this bill, I have the most problems. I would like to stress once again that the SP is in favour of the parties themselves, with or without the help of a mediator, reaching agreement in a dispute and thus not only reaching a solution but also resolving the underlying dispute. However, the SP is ultimately opposed to making mediation compulsory. The characteristic of mediation is precisely voluntary. That's the power, too. The question is how to assess this bill. Is there or is there no obligation and is it going too far or not? I find that assessment difficult. The bill regulates that in virtually all possible civil disputes mediation should be tried first. If either of the parties approaches the judge immediately, it will first be sent to the mediator. It is only when mediation fails that the way to the judge is open. If the parties then wish to refer their case to the court, they must state whether mediation has been tried and if not, why not. That's what Article 111 says. Even now, only a very small part of the disputes are brought to justice. Figures from the Ministry show that 95% of citizens and businesses first try to find a solution. I think the petitioner's a bit of a misapprehension. This is also true of the fact that judges have very often asked for the problem to be solved themselves during the proceedings. "Go down the hallway to get out together," parties hear a lot now. Isn't that more and more practice, according to the petitioner? In my view, the complainant does not see it as such, because otherwise he would not have formulated the proposed Article 22a Code of Civil Procedure in such a way that virtually every dispute is presumed to be capable of being resolved by means of mediation. The complainant lists more than 30 different disputes. I also think that this is a non-limitative list. I would like to ask the applicant: why does Article 22a of the law not restrict itself to the first sentence, namely that the courts may refer the parties to mediation in a suitable case? Why isn't that enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-21.u37	When I hear Mr Van Nispen make his specific suggestion on the subject, I think, Article 22a, I wonder what that would do with his initial comments on the Mediation Act on Civil Law and the very negative feelings that he still has against it. Does the case change in case his suggestion is taken over by either this Chamber or initiator?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-21.u38	That would make my assessment much more positive. I really do wonder how sensible it is for parties who do not need mediation to start doing so. That is, however you turn it or turn it, then an obligation. It's contrary to party autonomy. With this proposal, the petitioner prescribes to people how to resolve a dispute. Of course, consultation and the independent resolution of disputes, with or without mediation, is wise. But is it up to the legislator to prescribe and impose this as the main rule? I have great doubts about that. The risk is therefore not a fact, but a risk that things will take longer. Sometimes you just have to go to court, no hassle. Otherwise, for example, deadlines expire. Or think of an interim injunction: there is an urgent matter and that does not relate well to starting conversations to get out together. 'Cause aren't you at risk that the other side of this is willingly stalling a procedure? Sometimes there are other reasons to think that you just want a court ruling. The law must also be able to form itself. And I'm not even talking about the cost. I'll get back to you on that. I'm in favour of stimulating mediation, but people who are really done talking to each other and live on a war basis sometimes just want an enforceable verdict. You shouldn't force these people to talk to each other first. And why don't you have to go to court and start talking under the direction of a paid third party when you're faced with a ridiculous claim or a bullshit story that doesn't make any sense at all? That is what the author is actually proposing. I would like to hear an extensive response to that. The author may hear from me that I was also inspired by the aforementioned article by Ingelse in the Dutch Juristenblad. He also made a number of comments on this subject. Once again, I think it would be better to amend Article 22a of the Rules of Procedure so that the court can examine, at every stage of the proceedings, whether the pending dispute can be resolved by means of mediation, by analogy with a provision in administrative law. I was positive about that. Even then you achieve that there will be an incentive for mediation, but it is less compelling than the proposer has described it. My amendment on this point contains this proposal. I know that on a small point this is similar to a broader amendment by Mr Schouw, so Mr Schouw and I have already agreed on this point. However, I also hope to hear the views of the author on this point. I would like to ask a question about the proposed Articles 292 and 293 of the Rules of Procedure. The registry mediator shall be empowered to request the court to settle a partial dispute in mediation, to have the settlement agreement with the outcome of mediation confirmed by the court and to file the request for a divorce after mediation. The Dutch Order of Lawyers, the Council of State and the Legislative Committee on Civil Procedure criticise this. There is already an Article 96 appeal. This provides that the parties can now also go to the canton court together in cases relating to legal effects which are free to determine the parties. I would therefore like to ask the author: are the provisions 292 and 293 not superfluous, because of the existence of Article 96? And aren't these also undesirable, because of the other hat the mediator gets on when he presents a partial dispute, but then has to move on with the mediation? How does the petitioner view this? I see that registry fees are also introduced with this proposal, from €80 if you want to go to court for a partial dispute during the mediation process, to a fee of €120 if you want an enforcement title after the mediation. Minority and inability are subject to the same rates as for legal persons and for people who have a lot of money. Why is that? My question to the author is actually a little more fundamental: why was registry rights chosen at all? Because if you want to encourage mediation, that's what the petitioner wants, isn't it logical to set financial thresholds? Otherwise, you run the risk that people will give up on it for financial reasons. Especially if there are several partial disputes, it can go well in the papers. However, if the complainant insists that registry fees are appropriate, I would ask him to lower the registry fees, especially for those who are not able to do so. That's what I'm asking because submission can be digital. This is covered by the proposed articles I referred to in paragraph 2 of Article 292 and paragraph 2 of Article 293. I would like to hear a response and, preferably, a commitment on this point. Finally, I would like to draw particular attention to the inability of the people who already have very little money to sue. It is already a big problem, but with this bill they get the obligation to try mediation first and that is not free. That could be a problem. I have heard that in Argentina the experience is that less able parties, after testing mediation, no longer had the means to bring their case before the courts, even if the mediation did not lead to a reasonable outcome. What is the reaction of the author to this? How do we avoid further division? Is this not a reason for inability at least to set the above-mentioned Registry Law at zero or, for example, to deduct the costs of mediation from the later Registry Law, if you were ultimately to go to court? On this point, I am considering another amendment, but I would like to await the comments of the author first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-21.u39	Mr. Chairman. Don't be afraid of a complex matter, get all kinds of stakeholders around the table and then find a shared outcome with it, bring to a good conclusion a firm bone hard working: that could just be a description of the ideal mediator. However, I am not talking about a mediator, but about my honourable colleague, Mr Van der Steur. I would like to congratulate him sincerely on the comprehensive initiative proposal, which we are discussing this evening, even three of which he has now submitted to the Chamber. Mediation has developed from the luwte into an increasingly used tool to find a solution to disputes between people, by those people themselves with an independent third party. With its proposals, the petitioner quite rightly stresses that it is not only through the court's route that it is necessary to find justice. In fact, it is often much healthier for parties to come to a just outcome in consultation than for them to end up in a legal fight on details and sometimes keep each other in the grip of a dispute for years. The Christian Union Group is therefore also in favour of alternative forms of judicial finding and restoration. In addition, mediation is not the only way. I have already spoken with Mr Recourt, for example, in the budgetary treatment of Security and Justice, about recovery law in criminal law. This also refers to the restoration of relationships and sometimes offers opportunities to achieve a more harmonious solution than is possible in the case of the judicial decision. In recent years, mediation has been promoted, sometimes through the Ministry's campaigns, mediators have united and a quality system has been developed. Those are good developments. I also agree with the author that this is a more solid legal framework. Nevertheless, the assumptions in the bill raise some questions. The first question concerns the size of the number of mediation cases. The applicant argues that it wants to make greater use of the potential range of mediation. That sounds nice. The question remains, however, how large that is and how to set it up. My first question is perhaps better by answering the Minister. What is the extent of the number of civil cases that are already being dealt with outside the courts? In the Dutch Juristenblad, in the article also cited by colleague Van Nispen, 95% of the cases are discussed. Is that right? The follow-up question is then of course whether it is real to expect for that last 5% that there is so much new potential for mediation. I would also like to hear a response from the author. I also like to hear how that 95% relates to the 2.7% he mentioned this morning in Trouw. That percentage then refers to the number of disputes that are now resolved through mediation. There is a big difference between 2.7% and 95%. Now the bill is pushing for the civil section to interrupt the judicial process in order to test mediation first. I, like my colleague Van Nispen, amazed when reading the legal texts about the extent of the first paragraph of Article 22a, Procedure. In it there is a huge list of what is likely to be eligible for mediation. I would now ask the opposite of the author: can he give some examples of what is not covered by this article of law? What kind of business should I think about? Is there anything left? What does he think of Mr Van Nispen's suggestion not to list it exhaustively and to limit it to the first sentence? In the Dutch Juristenblad and in various other places there was criticism of this article of law. It makes mediation a mandatory exercise and offers too little space to the judge and/or the seeker who already knows in advance that he finds this route unacceptable. It seems that Mr Van Nispen has found an elegant way out of this through his amendment. How does the author view this article? And how does he assess Mr Van Nispen's amendment? I would like to ask the Minister how he assesses the trend towards which this bill seems to be heading: always first mediation rather than the judge. Does he support that? Does he see dangers? For example, how does he feel about the objections that this regulation makes mediation into a game ball for the legal experts, making parties themselves spectators again? How is that prevented? What does experience in other countries learn in this respect? Has this also been discussed with the faculties of law, which our country is rich? In the so-called toga courses of university education, mediation often seems to be an elective. Seems to me that's where the glove needs to be picked up. I'd like to get a reaction to that, too. The petitioner chooses a set of requirements for the registry mediator. One is the number of flight hours of 120 per year. I was given figures that 60% of the current mediators do not meet this requirement. Is that also true in the image of the author? This requires a more detailed explanation of this standard. Why was it chosen like that? Further training requirements will be implemented through a General Management Measure. What is being thought of? I would ask for a commitment to keep a finger on the wrist precisely in these aspects from the Ministry. It is a question of whether the requirements are indeed a guarantee of good quality in practice. I would like the Chamber to be informed of this in the interim. Is that possible, too? This must also be an important point in the evaluation. Register mediator must be a qualification that stands for quality. If a mediator meets all the requirements, he is asked to take the oath or promise. That is what the Christian Union Group considers appropriate to this profession. However, the legal text does not contain the actual swearing-in and only the content is mentioned. After-search results that most laws contain the words "so truly help me God omnipotent" or "I declare that." I see the layman smiling. I understand that this has been a point of discussion. I ask the Minister and the petitioner whether it is not more attractive to draw a common line in this respect. I am considering tabling an amendment on this point, but I will wait for the author's reaction. With regard to the promotion of mediation in administrative law, I ask the petitioner a number of questions. The first concerns encouraging mediation skills among civil servants, so that a dispute is smothered in the bud. The municipalities are already doing a lot on this point. There's a route called "Contact with the government." That's been evaluated, and it turned out to be positive. I assume that the proposer is pleased to see these initiatives. Why did he not choose to go further in that direction and include a provision in the General Administrative Law to encourage administrative bodies to consider whether disputes can be resolved by mutual agreement? As a result of decentralisation, the municipalities have been given many new tasks. In order to avoid legalisation of all kinds of new issues in this area, my colleague Mr Dik-Faber has received and received a motion calling on the government to bring to the attention of municipalities alternative forms of dispute resolution and the organisation of a regional ombud function or mediation option if necessary. I am asking the Minister, and perhaps the applicant knows more about the state of affairs. Is the motion indeed being carried out? We are entering a new country now. I'm very curious to see how much the glove is being picked up. My next question concerns tax mediation. This is particularly true of the inequality between taxpayers and the tax administration, both in terms of power and in terms of knowledge of legislation. What guarantees are there that taxpayers will not suffer disproportionate disadvantages from their lack of knowledge? Is there sufficient balance between these two parties? In both legislative proposals, I continue to take care of the weaker party in a dispute, for example people with a small wallet. How is it guaranteed that they will retain sufficient strength in the choice of mediation in order not to get hurt in the end? Are there agreements when mediation assistance is provided? If so, how are they recorded? That is an important question for my group. I want to make sure that this proposal does not in any way undermine the position of the weaker parties in any dispute. I would like an explanation of this. The Registry fees for interim judgment by the court in a mediation process have been brought to the lowest level. Mr Van Nispen has asked a question about this. Has the applicant considered a discount on those registry fees if the parties first try that mediation journey? I would also like to hear a response from the Minister on that point. It is conceivable that parties will not dare mediation because it could become an additional cost. Finally. The use of these rules for mediation made me look at other forms of out-of-court dispute resolution, for example arbitration. Isn't there an inequality in regulation and financial barriers between this form, mediation, and other forms? I would also like a response from the Minister on that point. A comprehensive initiative law, three of them, is only taken seriously when there are the necessary questions. I have put it and look forward to the reaction of the petitioner and the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-21.u40	Mr. Chairman. On the D66 side, too, a lot of common compliments for the initiator. Three in one and alone at the summit with Mrs Kant, what more could Mr Van der Steur have wished for? You'd almost think it was a primary goal. It is an important subject that we are discussing tonight. It has a long history and it is wise to consider from the legislator's side how mediation can be promoted by providing legal incentives and guarantees. My group agrees with the idea of the initiator, Mr Van der Steur, that citizens and businesses should be responsible for resolving conflicts wherever possible. A solution between the parties using a third party is in many cases preferable to the court. However, it is necessary to measure and balance the proposals in order to avoid, to say the least, throwing away the child with the bath water. In this context, I would like to draw attention to the criticism of the Council of State, which points out the risk that the exact opposite will be achieved by means of an excessively rigid law. The Council presents an image consisting of three elements: more judicialisation if mediation has no result, unnecessary delays and substantial cost increases. Why can that happen? This can be done by the pressure placed on the process and, in some cases, partly by its mandatory nature. In this way, the proposals go beyond their objectives. We also see it a little from the input of the professions, of the experts, of the lawyers. They have a little mixed feelings at the bill. On the other hand, it becomes clear that it is good to regulate a number of matters legally. My group has reservations about this, or it should be as the initiator's intention. In fact, these reservations are based on three main issues: firstly, the State is going to regulate a lot of things about mediation; demands, laws, everything and everything. The big question is why the state should do that. The second point has already been raised by several speakers. Access to justice is only possible after an attempt at mediation has been made. It's a really weird portal to introduce just like that. Thirdly, all kinds of demands are made on the craft industry, while you can also reason the other way around: let the profession itself make all kinds of demands. So there is a lot organized through the law to the side of the government. The reservations we have about this are quite considerable. That is why the D66 Group has exhausted itself in making a number of amendments. It seems useful to me to discuss the matter further. To Mr van der Steur, I would like to say that these amendments are not, of course, concrete. The contribution of my colleagues to me also shows that it is complex. We need to work together to find good and sensible solutions so that there is a smart, intelligent, slender, but perhaps also robust law. I am therefore happy to cast; I also hope that the initiator and the cabinet are prepared to do so. Putting down a number of proposals makes the conversation easier. It seemed useful to me for the treatment to go through it and ask the initiator a number of questions about it. The first proposal, the first amendment, is to streamline the definition of mediation. We're trying to bring it back to the core, to mediation pur sang. This concerns voluntaryity, confidentiality and the obligation to make an effort. As far as we are concerned, mediation is a process that is accompanied by an independent and impartial person, seeking a solution to the problem that divides. The initiator's legislative proposal talks about the search for a shared standard that is needed by parties. I would ask the initiator to clarify that point again. There is a great deal of confusion about it. My point would be that no standard can be shared where a compromise is reached. If you are looking for a compromise, it is always a concession to one's own standard. I would like to see whether I can change the definition with the initiator alone, so that we can also make a good start. The second proposal is the amendment to item No. 12 on the definition of a professional organisation and the idea of holding the register in its own hands. We are puzzled a little bit about whether you can't leave quality assurance and assurance to a professional organisation rather than to the Minister of Justice and whether you even have to set hours standards in the law. That's a big deal, isn't it? If you went through that to other professions in this country, there'd be a lot of laws to make. I therefore ask the Minister whether it is customary to lay down these quality requirements for professional groups in the law and whether it is not the case that the Minister for Economic Affairs, including the VVD, wants to lay down all these professional requirements on the professional organisations themselves under the guise of 'less regulation'. At least that's how I understood it. I think that also fits in with the spirit of time: own responsibility, own control. We have therefore organized our second amendment to that effect. According to that amendment, an organisation as a professional organisation has at least 500 members. That's quite a volume. That organisation itself provides for requirements, including in relation to the independent disciplinary regime. The present legislative proposals bring the registry mediator under a state regime. I asked you if this fits modern society. Does that fit in with our liberal philosophy? Why should there be some kind of state diploma for mediators? A bill from Mr Van der Steur for a legally recognized register for directors or for MPs will be presented shortly. That's not supposed to happen, is it? Also because of the high quality of the professional organisations I have never seen any point of criticism on this issue. Let representative professional organisations themselves regulate what quality and training requirements they determine, and let them also carry out checks on them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-21.u41	Mr Schouw is making a little bit of fun of it. I like that in itself, but I also hear him say that he appreciates the quality. Perhaps his dearest wish is not a public register, but does he want a register as such?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-21.u42	Yes. I would simply place the responsibility for creating such a mediator's register with the profession. It's about quality standards and testing. Then you get a register mediator, but that is determined by the profession itself in an independent foundation, as is often the case with professional organisations. I believe that this is also the policy of the cabinet. I believe that Minister Kamp is taking all kinds of action.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-21.u43	Maybe I have not read it quite correctly, let us put this question to the initiator too, but I do understand that in the end it is not the minister in person who is going to think about how the quality is being shaped, but that this is indeed happening in conjunction with mediationland. Does that change your point of view? Or are you still saying that a register as proposed is not done for me?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-21.u44	To make it simple: the Minister immediately sets all kinds of quality standards and appoints committees and such, so when you become a registry mediator, you have a kind of state stamp behind your name. That's a model. Another model that you often see is that the professional organisation gives that quality stamp. To be honest, that seems much more appropriate to the spirit of time. You can already see that a number of professional organizations in the mediation world are doing so. I have not yet been informed of any problem that shows that there are major mistakes or that the quality is not right. So the question is why we have to change that completely if it's just going well. What problem are we solving? Of course, I would also like to hear about this from the initiator and the Minister. Isn't this contrary to policy? The third proposal has to do with no obligation to take down a registry mediator and no jurisdiction; it has just been discussed for a while. As far as we are concerned, it does not have to be the case that, in certain disputes between the authorities, a so-called registry mediator should always be chosen. With this amendment, we are making an obligation possible. Administrative bodies prefer to use a registry mediator, but if there are good reasons not to, they don't have to. There is therefore no obligation to purchase. The issue of hard legal knowledge is also a bit strange for us. When you put your ear to listen in mediationland you hear that just other disciplines and skills are needed for a successful mediator. In order to bring parties together, we may need more psychological insight than legal knowledge. A relatively recent study from England shows that 54% of mediators are not lawyers there. I have no illusions that this will be different in the Netherlands. The fourth amendment regulates the independent disciplinary committee. In this amendment we maintain the suggestion of a layered system of disciplinary justice; at first instance there is a disciplinary committee and then there is a disciplinary committee. But we are putting the responsibility back on the professional organisations, not on the minister. No appointments are therefore made by Royal Decree on a proposal from the Minister. I am also wondering what is wrong with simply laying it down with the professional organisations. It also fits in with the philosophy of less regulation and laying down the responsibility where it belongs. The fifth proposal has to do with the termination of the swearing-in. I understand some of my colleagues think that's a good thing. It's also nice, but the question is what it adds. If you choose to leave quality assurance with the profession, swearing in is unnecessary. At least that's how it sounds to me. Perhaps Mr Van der Steur would like to say why he chose it. The sixth point is in line with the comments made on mediation in civil law and its voluntary nature. For my group, this is an important point. Mediation must always be voluntary. It can't be a mandatory portal for the court corridor. We'll find out what's going on with the answer. I understand that several parties have wishes for this. This wish must really stand. We should not have to read in the fine print in the Acts that it is actually the intention. Another point I would like to mention here is the digital quick justice that is being introduced. The proposal basically means that a judge can be asked for a ruling on subject matter by means of a digital procedure. We find that a little complicated. We ask the initiator to work out whether there are good experiences elsewhere. It seems to us complicated for the mediation process, because one of the two parties suddenly gets to hear from the judge whether he is right or wrong. We don't think that's good for the trial. In addition, the judge must decide on a subject, while he does not know the whole case. From that point of view, it's also careless. The last point concerns the right to change. There has been much to do about this in the exchange of views with the field. The initiator says it is mandatory from Europe. Of course, that always works well with D66. My point is that if you don't set up the Christmas tree as big and stately as Mr Van der Steur does, but opt for the lighter variant as D66 does, that demand from Europe of the right to change is not necessary. I see the initiator shaking no. I am extremely curious to hear his answer. He can be confident that I will follow him very closely and control him. I have a few comments to make. My first comment relates to costs. A number of spokesmen have already said this. We are all in the dark about the costs of this legislative proposal on mediation for two parties. What are the costs for those undergoing mediation? Can the initiator provide a table for this, for different species? Can he also estimate the costs to the government? It's all not free. If you look through your eye hairs, it looks like this is gonna cost the government. I am also looking at the Minister, who is here from his independent role in giving objective information to the Chamber. I ask him to provide objective information on this, because the point of cost cannot remain. My second comment concerns the President, and perhaps the initiator. In view of the complexity of this legislative proposal, my group believes that there is at least a week between the first-term response and the second term of the Chamber. Then we can see whether we can make a difference by means of a number of amendments or motions, just to put it at home. Finally, I would like to ask the initiator how he sees the interrelationship between the three legislative proposals. If two are rejected, can the third still live happily? What kind of proposal is that? You can also argue that the legislative proposals are linked. If one dies, the other will automatically sink through the ice. Finally, I would like to thank the Bureau of Parliament's Legislation very much. I've rarely seen such a hard-working club. The Bureau has helped me greatly with the amendments. The same applies to the employees at the Ministry. They have delivered unsolicited sheets of A4 on the amendments we have made. I have appreciated this and we will make useful use of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-21.u45	It is always good to congratulate our Bureau of Legislation, which, like the other support in the Chamber, takes such good care of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-21.u46	Mr. Chairman. Also on behalf of the CDA Group, I would like to thank the initiator for the legislative proposals that have been tabled. My compliments to Mr Van der Steur and to the staff who have assisted him in all efforts to achieve these three legislative proposals, not perhaps unique, but almost unique. After my introduction, I will go into the questions raised by the CDA Group separately by legislative proposal. With these proposals, the initiator aims at a cultural change in the application of mediation in the Netherlands. Mediation should become an equivalent alternative form of dispute resolution. In principle, the CDA Group welcomes the idea that alternative dispute resolution should be used more effectively. The initiator has calculated it: only 2.7% of all disputes are resolved by mediation. Mediation can also ensure that procedures are speeded up, shortened and simplified. In this way, it can also contribute to dejuriation and relieve the burden on the judicial system and judicial proceedings. That is the ideal picture: mediation as a solution to a number of bottlenecks in current legal practice. However, since the drafting of this bill, I have also stumbled upon people who express other opinions in professional literature and among mediators themselves. The Dutch jurist magazine commented that the content of the legislative proposals is a well-meaning liberal paternalism that policy makers in The Hague are not uncomfortable. The bill seems to evoke mixed feelings. The thought is beautiful, but is it sufficiently thought-out? Is it not precisely limiting the autonomy of the parties? How liberal is this bill if one is obliged to think about a mediation process? I would like to hear Mr Van der Steur's reaction to this. The amendments tabled are of great value for the assessment of these legislative proposals. They have just been mentioned by Mr Schouw. Those amendments take the edge off the legislative proposals a little bit. They are therefore largely supported by the CDA Group. I'm coming to the bill on the registry medic. According to the CDA Group, the most important contribution this bill can make is the implementation of the so-called core values of mediation. Article 3 states that in order to be eligible for registration, the applicant must comply with training and examination requirements, psychological, communicative and legal competences required by or pursuant to General Measure of Management. I would just like to put the question to the initiator: should he not have limited himself to defining the core values in his proposal? After all, the main core values of mediation itself are not in the legislative proposal. The initiator has made a number of moves, but the elaboration of these by means of a General Measure of Management has yet to follow. Does the initiator share the view that this interpretation might be more important than setting up the register itself? The CDA Group therefore believes that the Schouw amendment on a new definition of mediation is useful because it reflects the core values of mediation. It's just been asked, what are you supposed to be? Do you have to be a lawyer? Do you have to be a psychologist? However, it is even more important that people are independent and impartial, that mediation is voluntary, that there is no commitment of parties and that mediation is also confidential. Does the initiator also endorse these values? There are concerns about the register, especially with the mediators themselves. It is feared that there will be some sort of gap between registry mediators, a kind of A-choice, and other mediators, which are a kind of B-choice. My question to the initiator is whether he can explain again why a new register has now been chosen. There are registers already. I refer to the Mediators Federation Netherlands, ADR International Register and the Association for Fiscal Mediation. I am also thinking of the mediators mentioned in the register at the Legal Assistance Council. They are already register mediators and also meet the requirements laid down in Article 1 of the Conditions of Registration of the Legal Assistance Board. So what's the deal, exactly? What difference does the proposed register make with the registers that already exist? Can these registers continue to exist? Is there any overlap? Are mediators already included in the registers automatically included in that new register? The last thing the CDA Group wants is for there to be a kind of artificial distinction between registry mediators, i.e. a kind of A-choice, and a large number of mediators in practice. In this respect, too, the proposed amendments could be an improvement. Work can then be done from the existing registers, which in turn is less of a concern. In the explanatory statement, the initiator states that he does not think it is confusing that mediators remain outside that register. According to him, everyone can make a decision on whether or not to opt for a registry mediator through access to the digital register. But is that so simple? Does the citizens still see the forest through the trees of all these registers, so what is a good mediator to solve his problem or help him solve it? Then I come to the Act promoting mediation in civil law. In this respect, too, we take the view that it is a good aim. However, there are a number of elements that the CDA Group wonders whether they are fully in line with the principle of voluntary mediation. It has already been mentioned in the note on the report: a subpoena or petition must explain why mediation has not been successful. My question to the Liberal initiator is whether this is not too patronising. What do you do now when parties have been in endless conversation? Someone just said: they fight each other out of the tent; does it still have to be explained why this mediation did not work? Shouldn't justice just take its course? Apart from the motives, if the opposing party wants to train the case, the step to the judge is often a well-considered conscious choice after a final piece of previous confrontations between the parties. This can certainly apply to conflicts in the relational sphere. I've been there myself as a judge. According to the initiator, family law is very suitable for mediation. How are we supposed to see that? Do you really have to talk to each other first? Do you have to prove why it didn't work out and then can you appeal to the judge? Another concern for the CDA Group is the proposed Article 22a of the Code of Civil Procedure. Mr Van Nispen mentioned it as well. The amendment proposing to delete the legal presumption that a dispute is suitable for mediation can support the CDA Group. However, I have another question to the initiator about the phrase that the judge may refer to the registry mediator at any stage of the proceedings. I get it, but what does this look like in practice? Can you expect a judge who's very advanced with a lawsuit and who's very capable of monitoring the lawsuit, to refer such a case back to a mediator at the end of his trial? Is that what this bill is about? Does the initiator share the concern of the CDA group that in such situations the decision is delayed again and that unnecessary irritation and incomprehension arise by keeping this possibility open? I also have a number of questions about the third bill, the legislative proposal to promote mediation in administrative law. Are the rights and obligations of the taxpayer not better guaranteed by the courts than by the mediator when it comes to tax law? The fear of the CDA Group is that a taxpayer might be too easily able to agree to a proposal from the mediator, whereas if he were to bring the case before the court, he might be better off, because he could then put forward circumstances that would have made the tax error, which would make him better off. The amendment, which no longer has the influence of the Minister to supervise the registry mediator, can make sure that a tax inspector no longer has double hats in that respect, but does not entirely remove fears as to whether someone is making the right choice. Are you going to join mediation, or do you just want to refer the case to the tax judge? I would like to receive a response from the initiator. The proposed in Article 2.4.a of the General Administrative Law Act indicates that administrative bodies should make efforts to avoid disputes with citizens through early and active communication. The proposed provision in Article 7.1.b states: "The administrative body shall facilitate good communication with the applicant of the objection." The current practice is that municipalities already do a lot to get in positive contact with citizens. The initiator himself writes this in the note on the basis of the report. The question is therefore whether the inclusion of these provisions in the law really adds anything. On mediation for administrative bodies, I have one more question for the Minister. I already announced it. There is a project enmediation, formerly called LUMO, which aims to reduce procedures in administrative law. That is not a very expensive matter, but it requires money to be made available. Would the Minister agree with his colleague in the Interior and Kingdom Relations to see whether the financing of this valuable project can be guaranteed? Finally. Mr Schouw just asked: if one bill falls through the ice, will the rest fall through? On the three legislative proposals, it is written in the Dutch Lawyers' Magazine that they form one whole. However, it is not one for all, all for one. The same applies to the assessment by the CDA Group. It looks forward to the response of the initiator and awaits it before taking a positive view of the legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-21.u47	There's been a technical malfunction, so I'm gonna have to suspend the meeting to see if we can fix it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-21.u48	Mr. Chairman. This afternoon, in the margins of the arrangement of work and everything related to it, Mr Van der Steur turned around, turned his face to the SGP group, which is constantly covering him, and started talking about the apostle Peter. When I was preparing for this contribution and studied his laws, I honestly remembered the Apostle Paul. In one of those beautiful letters from the New Testament, the first letter to the church in Corinth, Paul reprimands the young church because, when one fights, one just walks to a judge and doesn't matter between themselves. He advises them to appoint a wise, wise man from among themselves and to submit the disputes to him. That was not a plea for the introduction of Sharia, I say to Mrs Helder, because she was not there at the time. It was a plea for mediation. That's why I had that association. This example from the Bible shows that forms of conflict resolution are already very old outside the courts. Paul wrote this about 2,000 years ago. Conflicts with people who are near you or who are a little further away from you are not solved by a fight, but by seeking a common solution. This is, in our opinion, the best solution, also biblical, with or without the help of independent third parties. In the end, a judge can also carry out his duties. Of course, you cannot transfer such an example one-on-one to the current circumstances; that is clear and clear. However, the line of thought within it and its inspiration can very much help us in finding alternatives and in finding ways of resolving disputes in as little a conflict as possible. The SGP therefore finds Mr Van der Steur's proposals at first sight quite sympathetic. There are important classical-Christian lines of thought that we can fully support. Partly, the legislative proposals also align with existing procedures in various laws. On behalf of the SGP, therefore, I would like to congratulate Mr Van der Steur most warmly on completing this Hercules task, which is to put these three legislative proposals into procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-21.u49	Mr Bishop, I think it would be wise, after this wonderful introduction, to correct you for once. I hear you say Van der Scheur, but it's Van der Steur. Sometimes he's got a big crack.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-21.u50	Let's get rid of this from the Acts. His name is Van der Steur. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-21.u51	Let me flatter him now with the idea that I was constantly addressing him as Mr Van der Steur, but apparently it sounds different. Excuse me! I really mean Mr Van der Steur. I thank the President for this tip and I will try to articulate it carefully; then it must go well. However, we do have a number of criticisms and questions that apply to all three legislative proposals. There are four points I would like to make. First of all, I want to make the point mediation versus alternatives. That is an important point of attention. It is the preference of mediation over arbitration, mediation, binding advice, dispute and complaint committees, for example. The Council of State also calls for attention to be paid to this. Why would you prefer one form to another? That choice is arbitrary. To present your conflicts together to a self-elected arbitrator can, in our opinion, provide a solution as responsible as discussing your dispute with a mediator. The legitimate criticism of the Council of State on this point is provided by our colleague with an answer, but in our view it is not really substantiated. We would therefore like to receive a more detailed motivation for this exclusive preference. You can have a preference for mediation; among other things, the petitioner states that this is the best way to guarantee the autonomy of the parties. You can also determine whether mediation is used more often than other mediation methods. However, on the question of what really is the most effective method of dispute resolution, the author of the three legislative proposals does not really answer. His reaction is rather the statement that it is promising than the observation that this is actually the case. I would therefore ask him to go into this more closely.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-21.u52	Is it not just for the parties to choose whether or not to engage an arbitrator, whether or not to follow an arbitration clause in an agreement, or perhaps decide to submit something to the court? In the latter case, the Van der Steur initiative proposal will be discussed, which means that before submitting anything to the court, you will have to consider whether mediation is an appropriate means. Mr Bishop's question seems to suggest that one excludes the other, but it is still a free choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-21.u53	That's right. As long as it is not put into procedure, everyone will have the opportunity to follow their own preference. However, you may wonder why you would only allow mediation once the process has been initiated. Shouldn't you also keep lighter forms of mediation as an option? I would like an explanation of that. I would also like to thank Mr Recourt for the correct question. A second comment concerns self-regulation or detailed legislation. I will not go into this in detail, as several colleagues have already referred to it. The question is whether you need to lay down such detailed rules that mediation is so important. Shouldn't you choose, first of all, to allow social parties themselves to build on what is already happening in positive things? Are the existing registers really insufficient? Are they getting shut down? What is the problem of defining only the core values of the mediator's profession? I agree with previous questioners on this point. A third comment I would like to make concerns the definition.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-21.u54	I understand the questions on the previous point. If you see it very digitally, the initiator wants the State to do a lot, while I have put down an alternative and want to leave as much as possible with the professional association, because it is going well there and because you have no interference here as a State at all. Where's the SGP?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-21.u55	As a general rule, the SGP chooses to allow the State to carry out those tasks which it is required to carry out, which are necessary. Where possible, the SGP intends to leave the impact to society. In this respect, we have looked favourably at Mr Schouw's amendment. We will certainly continue to do so. However, we would like to hear the arguments put forward by the author of this proposal before making a final assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-21.u56	I get that. Thank you for that answer. I apologise for challenging Mr Bishop a little, but of course I do so in order to put some pressure on the initiator. My group is very keen not to set up a state mediation apparatus, but to leave as many things as possible there. I hope the initiator understands that message.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-21.u57	I thank Mr Schouw for his question. If I understand him correctly, he would have preferred to have such a gas honk to underline my words with a hefty bitch. That's pretty much what it came down to. I think it did come in. I now turn to the definition. "Mediation" is a very clear term. Mr Van der Steur rightly states that it is good to define that term clearly in the law as well. He also does so in Article 1 of the Registry Mediatior Act, which defines mediation as "the joint commission of the parties under a mediation agreement by an independent neutral third party supervised structured process, the purpose of which is to allow the parties to find or rediscover in mutual consultation the standard they share where it is lacking, while the parties do need it." That is a clear set of standards. However, there are differences with definitions of mediation that are included in existing laws. These are not shocking differences, but the existing definitions are less attached to the exact term "mediation." We keep wondering why one clear definition is not chosen which applies in all laws. In order to save Mr Schouw the trouble of interrupting again, there is also an amendment in order to arrive at a clear and clear definition. We consider that amendment to be a positive one. The SGP also wonders at the time of the chosen definition whether it is a happy choice to speak of "a standard shared by them to find or re-establish" if that standard is missing. Is the problem always the lack of a standard, or more the lack of application of that standard? In most cases, the parties agree that something must be just, or that an inheritance must be fairly divided, or that it must be done in the interests of father or mother, and that children should not suffer from divorce. The way in which they are coloured in concrete cases will depend for a large part on the choices of those involved. Let me turn to the fourth point, the fourth point. The question is, are we going back to court or is mediation the end point? The applicant has opted for a method whereby the judge makes a full reference to the mediator, whereby a simple procedure can be used to resolve partial questions. The SGP wonders whether this is really the best solution. Should it not always be possible to establish that the parties cannot resolve the conflict, or that it simply takes much longer than the other party considers reasonable? Shouldn't there always be an opportunity to go back to court in such cases? Here too, I agree with questions that colleagues have already asked and I would like to hear the reaction of the author. I would like to draw particular attention, on behalf of the SGP, to the subject for which we are preparing an amendment concerning mediation in the event of divorce involving children. In those cases, it is already possible to activate a mediator. It is already possible, on the basis of the current law, for the judge to refer to the mediator. This is important because not only the legal side of the matter, but also the social and emotional side play an important role in this situation. It is crucial to have as much agreement as possible on the consequences of divorce in good consultation, especially for underage children. It is a particular responsibility of the government to ensure that these children are not harmed or harmed in their welfare. Of course, as a government, you can't prevent that, but by taking care of things properly at this point, you've done your utmost to avoid the damage it inevitably brings. In these cases, the current law contains an obligation to draw up a parental plan. The SGP considers it important that a professional party is involved, such as a mediator. That's one of the recommendations of the Children's Ombudsman in the report Fighting parents, the child in trouble. Precisely if we go into relational conflicts for a good solution, achieving agreement rather than entering into a fight is entirely preferable. We are talking about a relationship conflict that can intervene very badly at young ages; then additional safeguards are in place. A parental plan can then be drawn up in the mediation process, so that the best interests of children are well guaranteed. Does the initiator agree with us that it is important for children to be protected by a very careful journey in this respect? I would therefore like to receive a positive opinion for our amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-21.u58	Just for my understanding. Do I hear Mr Bishop argue for a compulsory form of mediation in the case of the situation he describes, that of divorce with children?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-21.u59	Yes, following the recommendation of the Children's Ombudsman, we say: let an independent third party take part in drawing up the parental plan and matters related to it, in order to ensure the best interests of the children concerned. We would like to do this less without obligation. We want someone to watch the trial as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-21.u60	I need to study the amendment carefully. At least I think you were talking about an amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-21.u61	Yeah, but it hasn't been filed yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-21.u62	"Less without obligation" is something different than mandatory. At least that sounds different to me. In particular, I am asking this because I heard you say in the block before this, although it related to something else, that access to justice should remain at all times. My question is therefore: how does one relate to the other?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-21.u63	The plea for active use of mediation does not exclude that if that path is blocked, the appeal to the judge should be open. It has to be able to tie a knot in the end. It is not intended that if the mediation really runs smoothly, children will suffer even more from that failed trajectory. That care will be maintained. We would like to invest in the consultation and put a professional next to it who can accompany this intensively.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-21.u64	Mr President, allow me to respond. I see you looking very critical, so I'm not doing that right now. Well, we'll see about that next time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-21.u65	Then perhaps the amendment is also available, which makes the discussion a little more convenient.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-21.u66	Finally, I would like to mention a few other points concerning the three separate legislative proposals. First of all, the bill on the registry mediator. There has been a discussion about the number of hours of flight flying, as it is called, for mediators mentioned in the bill. If a quality requirement is chosen, it must be a good one. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is in agreement with the chosen standard, because an even lower requirement than 120 hours a year does not appear to be an essential requirement for quality. However, I would like to hear the applicant's further motivation on this point. Colleagues have made all their comments on this and I am happy to await the discussion. My group has already drawn attention in the report to the establishment of both a mediation committee and an advisory council. The SGP Group has the impression that it is becoming a very rigged system. It causes a lot of perception of mediation, because every advisory body has to prove itself in the end. I come to my comments on the law on mediation civil law. The SGP Group considers it a special form of legislation to mention a huge list of conflict situations that are suspected to be a solution to mediation. Can that not be a short and simple provision that we are dealing with relational conflicts, because the judge already has an discretion? The form in which a partial question can be put to the court also raises the question whether it ultimately relieves the whole issue, both mediation and justice. The judge will also have to look closely at the context if he has to answer a partial question or pronounce a judgment. Is it as efficient as the proposer suggests? The answer to that is no. I'd like to hear a motivation. On the issue of the legislative proposal promoting mediation administrative law, I would point out that the prevention of conflicts between government and citizens is important. Good and timely communication is essential. However, this also applies: not every important point needs to be included in the law. Early and active communication with citizens is necessary, but does a legal obligation add anything to that? My group trusts that we will not be able to engage and prosecute the debate on these legislative proposals in a conflicting but harmonious manner in due course. The SGP Group awaits the applicant's response to its questions and comments with great interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-21.u67	While Mr Recourt is walking here, I think it is wise for me to point out to the Acts that I made an inappropriate comment earlier on this debate. That's what I wanted to see. That's what I said about myself, by the way. I wasn't talking about you, Mr Recourt.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-21.u68	I understood your first remark and so did your second. Mr. Chairman. I will continue quickly with compliments to the author and to all those who have supported him. I'll get back to the content soon. Emotion, relationships, we all know that they play an important role in finding solutions in conflicts. You can approach it in purely legal terms, but you know that those emotions and relationships play a part in the background and often get in the way of a solution. I hear Chamberwide agreement to further motivate and activate mediation. There is some discussion about how, but at least the objective and the basis are fine. On behalf of my group, I share it. The PvdA Group wholeheartedly agrees with the starting point. There was some discussion about the figures, but we also agree that it is urgently needed. We've been working on mediation for a while, but it's been sticking to a certain level for a while. In fact, it's dropping a little bit. As far as I am concerned, an incentive to bring that percentage up firmly is very appropriate. It has been said a few times, but for my part I would like to stress once again that bringing the conflict back to the parties themselves often gives a better outcome than bringing a case before the courts. Parties seek solutions themselves with help. The relationship of interests is played out. The judge is really an ultimatum remedium. Then I come to my questions. How is access to justice secured in the own-initiative laws? In fact, yesterday or this morning, the newspaper argued that the legislative proposals are contrary to Article 17 of the Constitution. As far as my group is concerned, it is clear that Article 17 of the Constitution must not be violated. No one can be held back from the judge against his will. But I also find it obvious that the government can push a little bit to give mediation a chance of success. It's got to be somewhere between total noncommittality and compulsion. The petitioner has been looking for exactly where that limit is. I've been looking for him as a member of parliament. I see it as follows. I would like to hear from the author whether he agrees with me. It's about motivating why you don't want to participate in mediation. You can't say you don't feel like it. That's not enough. That justification shall be subject to requirements. A bald theorem is not enough. Then what is it? A reasoned statement can be: I don't want mediation, because I want a judge's ruling right away. Is that enough? I can still imagine that's just not enough. Someone can say: I don't want mediation, I want a judge's ruling on this and this point right away, because that's why and that's why. Then the judge can say, "Come to me, for example, and I will make a partial decision." In short, you should not put parties that are absolutely not in the mood together at a mediator's table. That's a waste of time, energy and money. But you can ask people to think about it. How do you do that, let them think? Force them to motivate why they don't want it. It may be that someone is trying to find a solution to a particular part. That's why we have partial disputes. With that, mediation is back in the picture.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-21.u69	I think I have heard all the speakers say so far that we must remove this mandatory portal. I even heard the VVD say that. But I understand that the Labour Party is okay with such a mandatory portal, a mandatory attempt to bring mediation to a successful conclusion before you can get justice. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-21.u70	Depends on how you put it. Mandatory mediation? No. We all agree on that. So is the petitioner, if I have read it correctly. Absolutely noncommittal? No. Maybe that's what the D66 Group wants. My group would like to give an extra push to that. My group wants to give an additional initiative to make people think about mediation first. So if the question is whether you are obliged to think about whether you want mediation and are obliged to motivate why you don't want it, then the answer is: yes, Mr Schouw has heard that right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-21.u71	It is difficult to define what this effort of both parties should look like. Mr Recourt admits that too. Is it careful from the point of view of legal certainty for people who start working with mediation to leave it so incredibly open as to what effort should look like? What efforts should they have made to get out of mediation before they go to court? Isn't that very unclear right now? Wouldn't it be much better to explicate that if you wanted to go so far as to set up that portal?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-21.u72	This treatment is intended for this purpose. I understand it so that it is very clear what to do if you are called to mediation by your fellow party or how to say it. Then you have to motivate why you don't want to. I would like to hear from the author whether he sees it that way. It is also very clear to me that, if people really do not want that, we should not throw that money over the head. But motivating is a requirement that you can make sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-21.u73	Finally, if we do not manage to find good criteria for this motivation in this debate and the debates in the near future, if that remains vague, is the Labour Party prepared to reconsider its current position to leave the mandatory portal in the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-21.u74	There's got to be a good law, but I think it's right that you want to get that law to make sure people look at mediation properly. Mr Schouw refers to this portal; I call it a pressure to see if mediation is appropriate. That is what the proposer has created a suspicion of. I could still think about that. I'd like to ask him if you can't do with the suspicion. Isn't there a presumption in every dispute that it can be resolved with mediation? Then you've lost that whole list, whether or not exhaustive, that defines disputes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-21.u75	I am triggered by a comment by Mr Recourt, namely: if you are called to mediation. That is a very strange sentence, because mediation is basically a voluntary arrangement between two conflicting parties to settle a dispute outside the courts. Then it is extremely strange that one would be called by the other. That would be an unequal position between one party and the other. I cannot explain that, especially if Mr Recourt still obliges that party to think and then has to make an obligation to motivate why it rejects the vocation it has received. That party should then, if necessary, go back to the court for which it rejected that mediation. And then the trajectory can continue. Isn't that very conflicting with the characteristics of mediation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-21.u76	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, The point is, before you file your dispute with the judge, to see if you can get out of it yourself. That makes these legislative proposals rather revolutionary. That may be a big word, but I saw somewhere that it was called a "paradigm change." I'm referring to the groups where one party says she wants to mediate. The only obligation for the other party is then to explain why it would not want to. Of course, if you're gonna explain something, you need to think about why. However, that is the only thing. That leaves the way to the judge open. You just put one bump in it, which is to explain why you don't want to take that first step.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-21.u77	Doesn't that mean an unequal position between the parties? It means that the starting party actually gets a head start. After all, it does not need to motivate why he or she says he or she wants to go into mediation. They only say: we think mediation is appropriate. And then the other has to think about why it isn't. In fact, you're already going to create unequal parties. This is in contradiction with the principles of mediation, in which the parties come to a solution of a dispute just outside the courts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-21.u78	I don't see that inequality. You say as legislator: we think the normal way is to try to resolve your dispute first through mediation, but there may be circumstances in which you can go straight to court, for example because you explain why you don't want to. That has nothing to do with the litigation of the parties. This has to do with how you, as a legislator and as a government, see the ideal dispute resolution procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-21.u79	I am still interested in whether Mr Recourt could specify how far that statement of reasons should go before it is considered acceptable by the judge. What is Mr Recourt's view on this? I also hear him say that he thinks along with the initiator, and that is what I like to do, by the way, about how to bring this law to perfection.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-21.u80	Of course, I cannot define that at all. That's always the case: there's always a thousand things you can't think of for yourself. But I can come up with two examples. One is that someone says: we can mediat until we weigh, but I just want to have a ruling on whether I have to comply with that claim. A very bald, legal question can be an example. Then, for example, you can come to a partial dispute. The second example is that someone says: I don't want to mediat, because I feel a few times fooled by the other side and I have no confidence that I will get out through a mediation process; please let's skip this stage and go to court. In the latter case, if there is a lack of trust, you may wonder if that is not a bump to overcome, where mediation is still the better outcome. Anyway, if that doesn't work, you just go to court.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-21.u81	May I explain Mr Recourt's words in such a way that, in principle, it does not matter what argument is put forward not to try mediation or mediation. or, to be clear, not to sit at the mediator's table, but that the PvdA thinks it is valuable that you give some kind of explanation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-21.u82	Of course, there's an intrinsic tension in that. I'm also saying don't throw money at mediation when one party says, "I'm not in any way; you look at it; I'm sitting here at the table and I'm keeping my mouth shut." Eventually, the mediation failed and you're still gonna get to court. The bottomline is, if that's the attitude of a trial party, you're going to go to court.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-21.u83	I understand that Mr Recourt says that it is not entirely non-binding to start mediation. Promote and stimulate. That is the title of the bill: law promoting mediation in civil law. At the same time, he doesn't want it to be an obligation. Mediation must not be mandatory. I agree. The power of mediation is precisely in the voluntary spirit. Parties have to come out of it themselves. How does Mr Recourt read the law? I am not concerned with the part that says that parties have to motivate or mediation has been tried. It is the part in which the presumption of justice is created that a lot of disputes are suitable for mediation. I can only read that as an obligation. How does Mr Recourt see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-21.u84	Any suspicion can be refuted. Other evidence suspicions in law also require that mediation should in principle be tried, unless one can justify why this is not the case in this case. You're imposing an obligation to state reasons on the party that doesn't want to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-21.u85	I understand, but that's a form of obligation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-21.u86	Yeah, a mandatory motivation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-21.u87	This is your third question, Mr Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-21.u88	If it is suspected that the dispute is suitable for mediation, mediation should be tried. That suspicion can be invalidated, but it's an obligation. My specific question is: how does Mr Recourt feel about this and what should the law say about it? What's the most desirable thing? What, according to Mr Recourt, would be the meaning of Article 22 (a) of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-21.u89	I have already said that in a previous interruption. As far as I'm concerned, we keep that suspicion. I think it is a good legal solution to set that threshold. I'm just wondering if it's necessary to have such a huge list of disputes on it. You can also say that in principle we suspect that any dispute is suitable for mediation. In some bare legal questions, you can quickly comply with that obligation to state reasons. In other cases, for example, divorce with children, you have a slightly longer explanation. How can we prevent mediation from becoming an instrument for chicanizing, slowing down the procedure? How's the judge gonna test that and how's he gonna weigh that? Can the judge only allow a partial dispute? If, for example, there is reason to say that they do not want to, the judge could say: come to me with that partial dispute and, when you are done, go back and see if mediation can be done. I come to my second point. Why not limit it to core values, I heard the CDA and the SGP ask questions. A letter writer has also put that question to us. My answer would be that you don't guarantee quality. Then the question remains why you do not leave that quality assurance to the profession itself. Especially D66 makes that a point. Doesn't the profession of mediator override? I note that some forms of mediation are not covered by this law. Neighborhood mediation is an example. That works fantastic, and we must keep it that way. If the government depends more on the procedure and the mediator thinks of getting the enforceable title easily, the government must also ensure that the quality is guaranteed. That is the first argument why I think positively with the author. My second argument is: please leave it to the practice itself. I think the practice itself has a lot of forms of quality assurance. Some clarity seems appropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-21.u90	A classic question you always have to ask here is: what problem should be solved here? Is there a problem? Can Mr Recourt take me with him in the problems of quality assurance, which is now being dealt with by the profession itself?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-21.u91	Yes. Quality assurance is not clear. There are no minimum requirements. I hear the D66 group say that if you have 500 members, you can define your quality yourself. I would say: if you make an instrument so important that, in principle, any mediation procedure should begin, then I also think that as a government you should be able to set minimum quality requirements. With that I already have a nice list of arguments why I think you should guarantee that as a government.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-21.u92	If you want everyone to eat the same, so you're not in favour of diversity, then as a government you have to make demands. However, if you are in favour of diversity and don't actually see any problems in the quality that is being delivered by mediators at the moment, then you don't have to change anything. That is what my question was about: do we have studies that show that the quality of the Dutch mediators is below the standards? We don't know them at all. Don't they score very well right now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-21.u93	A number of associations of mediators are well in order. As soon as you give mediation such a prominent place in procedural law, as a government you want all associations of mediators participating in this process to have the same level. That's what you want to make terms with. The fraction of D66 has flown it quite ideally before. Sometimes the group of D66 is social and sometimes it is liberal; in this case it is liberal and it says: leave it to the market. My group is a little more sceptical about leaving things to the market that the government itself says: we think this is very important, we have to set quality standards. I will continue my speech. One of the questions put to us by people from the field is the following. Isn't there a danger that the professional mediators are often also professional lawyers; fortunately, I have read that this requirement has been watered down and that knowledge other than legal knowledge is defined as being very important between citizens and taking over the dispute again by the mediation? How does the petitioner see that? If the judge has to assess whether mediation has been tested, does this apply only to the registry mediator or to all mediators, including non-register mediators? Can you test mediation there, too? The Klein amendment regulates the point of flight hours in an AMvB. How does the author view this amendment? That seems to me to be an opportunity to regulate things flexibly and to look at what is happening in practice. In my opinion, a majority also agrees that you can tighten up and increase those flight hours over time. Then there's the right to change. Some writers say that it can be done with less far-reaching means, for example by agreement. Europe does not prescribe that either. Then why this heavy substance? Why did the applicant choose this level of registry duties? What about the low-powers? What, by the way, are the other costs of mediation for the underprivileged? Accessibility is an important aspect. The initiator proposes two committees. Why can't these committees be merged into one? That's not quite clear to me yet. The Minister has a major influence on the implementation of the mediation laws. For example, the establishment of the register will be placed with the Minister. Who should manage, update, keep up-to-date the registry? Is that the Ministry or a professional association? And if there are several professional associations, and they are there, which professional association would be preferred? Or can all professional associations edit the register? How's that practical? The disciplinary judge can be contacted directly if there are complaints about the mediator. In other legal professions this runs through the professional organisations as a sort of filter. Doesn't the initiator expect a huge burden on the disciplinary court because this is the only way to file a complaint? Mediation is possible. When I read it, I thought: would Mr Van der Steur not prefer to join a much more effective filter of complaints, namely past the blanket before it is presented to the disciplinary court? Isn't mediation almost a joke to achieve that same effect? Whatever's in the law of defense is the blanket, you call it the mediator here. In any case, it is a third person who is going to talk to the complainant first: what is it for and can we not solve it in another way? The rooms in which mediation conversations take place are courthouses. Is that going to be the case in the future? How is that arranged? Is that gonna be released? Can you make those calls anywhere? In any case, it must be a safe place for all concerned. How does the petitioner see that? A partial dispute shall not be binding. If the judge gives judgment in a partial dispute procedure, that is not binding. Can the court, as the parties to the same dispute, later in the proceedings before the court make an unmotivated reference to its partial decision? Administrative bodies must justify why they do not want to participate in mediation. Then I'm talking about that part of the laws that applies to administrative law. According to the initiator, this statement of reasons ensures that the use of mediation or any other method of dispute resolution is not frivolously refused. I fear that administrative bodies, or at least some administrative bodies, are trying to avoid mediation by giving a standard motivation, for example that no solution is expected through mediation or that no contact could be made with the interested party. How can management bodies be prevented from avoiding mediation in advance? That brings me to the end of my speech. I'm very curious about the answer we're going to get later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-21.u94	Mr. Chairman. I thank the initiator for the work he has done together with his support. He recognised a good social opportunity and translated it into a legal framework. That is why, in my view, the social context is the most important thing in order to come up with these own-initiative proposals. In addition, there will be solutions and benefits for our legal system. From a liberally binding perspective, mediation is important. It's about people living together. Where people live together, conflicts can arise. We have conflicts at different levels, from global conflicts to family conflicts. The best way to resolve conflicts is a peaceful way. A path that we must take without violence, without kalashnikovs, without compulsion, without urge, without sneaking around and without "Shenko"-like practices to resolve the conflict. This means that conflicting parties must engage in dialogue. You don't do conversations through the judge, you do conversations with each other. To go to court may be a peaceful solution, but the responsibility for resolving the conflict is thus placed outside the conflicting parties. Whether it is an international court, the European Court of Justice or a district court, it is always a third party who makes the decision. We always see that very well with The Driving Judge. Mr. Visser always ends with the sentence: this is my decision and you have to do it with it. That is logical, but it is not an own inner will accord with the decision of the conflicting parties. It's still a decision that's been made outside of you. If one of the parties doesn't stick to it, there's another conflict, you still go to court and start the party again. From a liberal perspective, in which free thinking is central to one another with respect, it is best to find a solution by entering into the conversation. Fortunately this happens very often; very often daily. Within your relationship, at work, in all kinds of situations where individuals collide, you come out together very often. But sometimes people with conflicts don't come out. Then it is good to bring in an impartial party; not to make a decision but to initiate dialogue between people. From peace negotiator to neighborhood mediator: by entering into the conversation, you can resolve conflicts, including in a dispute between people. What I am missing in the legislative proposals is the incentive to allow mediation by organisations, by legal entities. It should therefore concern not only the individual professional, as it is now described in the legislative proposals, but also the setting up of inter-group mediation organisations. You might well imagine that in administrative law, if an entire group is busy, for example, to stop windmills. This is particularly important, because in this way you can resolve social conflicts where the path of dialogue is the only way forward. For example, current is the division between Muslims and non-Muslims in a development like Pegida. In my opinion, further escalation and division can only be avoided by the conversation. Getting into that conversation isn't just gonna happen. There's mediation in place. This cannot be done by just a mediator; it must also be organised socially. That is why I proposed a national tolerance dialogue to the Chamber last week. It should not only be held in a meeting with representatives in the Knight's Room, which is not a conversation, but in a fleeting meeting. It's important to start the real conversation. Mediation begins inventorying both parties. As a first step, I think it is important to discuss what we can do to establish a dialogue, similar to other dialogues we conduct. Mediation by an organization, a legal person, who can, of course, set it up with state support, is therefore very important. My question to the initiator is therefore how we could design legislative proposals in such a way that not only individuals but also organisations can register in a legal register. For example, large social mediation may be possible, such as in the "one country one society" initiative. Achieving a better mutual understanding, acceptance of positions, of freedom of expression and respect directly linked to it are the starting point for a mediation process to be successful. This can happen internationally, nationally, between groups, between companies and, in the most direct form, between two people. Mediation is increasingly used as a means of resolving a conflict. Mediation has the advantage that you do not go into battle with each other, but through conversations led by an impartial mediator you are looking for a solution that is acceptable to both parties. As a result, mediation has many advantages over the traditional way of conflict resolution by a judge, arbitrator or lawyer. Mediation is less expensive, saves time, is less stressful, is solution-oriented and informal. Maybe the most important thing is that free people manage their own lives in this way. By definition, this provides better solutions. Given all the advantages, mediation should also be the starting point for dispute resolution, but never an obligation. On the contrary, a mandatory nature ignores the core value of mediation that parties themselves can reach an acceptable solution to the dispute, not by binding but by means of can-provisions and without limitative lists. Anchoring mediation in Dutch legislation is an important step forward in the further development of mediation. This makes it possible for mediators to have the right to change. A determination agreement may also be provided for an enforceable title. As a result, the results of mediation can be effectively perpetuated. Mediation is about finding similar interests between parties. From there one can negotiate further and come up with practical solutions that are workable. Let me take into account the importance that we all share in this debate, namely the further development of the market for mediation so that we can take even more advantage of the benefits that mediation offers. That is what we are happy about, as is clear from the other contributions. The next question is, of course, how are we going to do that? The first version of the legislative proposals, actually the combination of legislative proposals, breathed the atmosphere of an attempt to create a market for a limited number of preferred mediators. Fortunately, many improvements have been made talking and negotiating. It's like mediation, actually. The greatest improvement so far is that the legalization of the profession of mediation has been removed. That's the essence: not a lawyer's office. Communication and the proper handling of emotions and their recognition are the most important issues in mediation. Only then will the legal framework be discussed. Solutions are found to be tested for feasibility. Mediators are counselors and not lawyers-light. It is important for all of us to help mediation further. The question is how we will do that. The profession itself, the Mediators Federation Netherlands, the MfN, currently has a large network of mediators. Mediators are registered in the network if they meet the quality requirements. They also have a well-functioning disciplinary right to monitor quality. The monitoring and development of own professional standards for quality, including quality standards for professional practice, are essential for the good development and growth of the profession. A professional group, possibly supplemented by organisations that could do so, which loses control of its own professional standards, loses its identity and professional ambition. It would not be conducive to the further development of mediation. In other words, if the government intervenes a great deal, as is now likely to happen, there is a risk that the initiatives of mediators and the development of mediation will be smothered. That is the opposite of what I believe the initiator is trying to do. The demand for the number of mediations or hours of mediation in an undeveloped market is arbitrary and offers no guarantee of the quality of service. Technically, it's kind of crazy, too. Lawyers have as varied professional forms as mediators. The initiator knows all about it. They are subject to a permanent education requirement, but a requirement to do a certain number of procedures per year would be a strange requirement. There are many lawyers who rarely or never appear in court and yet are very good lawyers. It's not about the number, it's about the skills. Skills are taught in training. After that, there must be lifelong learning in practice. Then it has to be done. There are no further requirements. Otherwise, there is also an improper labour market policy. In the present bill, mediators are required in terms of hours and mediations. These are not quality requirements but quantitative requirements. The number doesn't say anything about the quality. In order to be registered and remain, the bill requires mediators to comply with the hourly requirement. Mediators have to spend 120 hours on mediatons or do 12 mediations a year. Now 3 mediations per year are common for mediators. Of course, mediators need to gain experience. However, if this is incorporated into a law, it is unfortunately poured into concrete too much. Experienced mediators in different jurisdictions have indicated that they are currently unable to meet the hours required in the bill. This creates the risk that only a few experienced mediators will be able to work as a registry mediator. This rigid arrangement means that either in the initial phase the required flight hours are set too high or that flight hours may be set too low in the future. To avoid this, I agree with the reaction from the profession, the MfN. He has proposed to arrange the hourly demand per AMvB. In this way, the demand for hours is reduced in concrete and demands can keep pace with developments in mediation. This gives the Minister of Justice the opportunity to determine the number of hours in consultation with the professional organisations. I take it this will not be unilateral action. By taking this into account, a growing field of expertise such as mediation can develop optimally. That is why I have incorporated this in the Amendment No 2 tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 19. At the moment Mediator's Federation of the Netherlands has three mediations. I have pointed that out before. This condition currently works well in practice. Ideally, it could also be used in the growing field of mediation. In the future these requirements can then be adjusted upwards in the AMvB if the development is also ready. It is not real to suddenly go into a legal requirement from three to twelve mediations. That's not realistic. In fact, you throw away the child with the bath water. Perhaps it is because of the enthusiasm for mediation that the author of the bill wants to go far too quickly on this point. Let's assume that's what we're gonna do. From the point of view of liberalism and open-mindedness, I welcome that, but I would suggest adding some realism to that. Moreover, I think that the legal aspect is ill-advised when it comes to the inclusion of a numerical requirement. Perhaps in some time it will turn out to be an absurdly low demand. We then have to go through the whole legislative process, for example, to convert 120 hours into 150 hours. That would only be job provision and bureaucracy. I assume that the initiator is not in favour of this either. The initiator is to be praised for taking this step towards a legal anchoring of mediation. When I listen to the discussion that has arisen, for example about my amendment on the regulation of flying hours per AMvB, I note that there is still a need for mediation with the initiator. However, it cannot be the case in this dossier that we push through something quickly. That's not part of successful mediation. We'll always have to keep that in mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-21.u95	I have a brief question about the airtime requirement and your amendment to that effect. Let me say first of all that I still find that an interesting amendment. If I become convinced that it is better than my amendment, then I withdraw my amendment. That's not a problem. However, what Mr Klein is doing now is to put the question of how many hours are realistic as a flight hour demand to the Minister. I am happy to deal with the Minister's problems, but if the Minister, in consultation with the professional group, is to establish an hour's requirement, that is a problem. We already notice, also looking at our e-mailbox, how different people think about it. So then we move the problem. Then we are not going to solve the problem here and we are going to put the problem with the Minister. If he, together with a very divided professional group, finds it too little and the other thinks it is too much of an hour's demand, my question is how Mr Klein sees that happen. How is the Minister going to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-21.u96	I think the Minister can give a better answer than I do. I would like to say that, in the light of what the Minister could do, he will perhaps come to us at some point, in the same way that we are doing this here and we are having this discussion here. In short, you go in consultation with the professional organisations and see what a good and realistic demand is. The most important thing is that you keep the flexibility in it. You do not create that flexibility with the current initiative proposal. In this way you create a interplay between the professional organisations and the legislator, in this case the Minister of Security and Justice through the AMvB. At the same time, you create flexibility by responding to societal developments and growth in the development of mediation. Of course, the Minister holds the responsibility towards the Chamber to indicate what he has achieved through that AMvB. Then we can call him enthusiastically to account, in the sense that we can say to him, for example, that he has made an absurdly high or absurdly low demand. Then there will be a whole debate, in which the Minister will undoubtedly say that he will step up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-21.u97	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing three legislative proposals by Mr Van der Steur, namely the Registry Mediation Act, the Promotion of Mediation Act in Civil Law and the Promotion of Mediation Act in Administrative Law. First of all, on behalf of the PVV Group, I would like to congratulate Mr Van der Steur on these three legislative proposals, because in the meantime I know my own experience that making an initiative legislative proposal is a lot of work. Then I'll get to the content. The initiative legislative proposals focus in particular on the legal embedding and anchoring of mediation in civil and administrative law. Mediation can generally be described as a form of dispute resolution in which a third party, the mediator, guides parties to work together to find a solution to their mutual conflict. As a general rule, a successful mediation does not lead to a court procedure because the parties have reached a solution by mutual agreement. The core of mediation is voluntaryness and willingness on the part of the parties. According to the PVV, there is also the core of the criticism of the two legislative proposals on mediation in civil law and administrative law. After saying this, I'll start with the Registry Mediator Act. However, I think that a short trip to the history of the directive on mediation in civil and commercial matters is necessary. The original implementation law encountered a lot of criticism. The main reason for this was that the implementation law regulated a change of law for mediators without setting quality standards. The result was that everyone could stand up as mediator and then invoke a right of withdrawal in court proceedings. The Supreme Court had already ruled against this in 2009. I quote: 'Recognizing the right of mediators in general would mean that the circle of right-holders would be considerably expanded without sufficient guarantees for the quality of mediators, which would not bear the exception of the right-holder'. It was the First Chamber that stopped this bill. The then Minister withdrew the bill and submitted a new bill to implement the aforementioned directive, but again without linking the right to change to quality requirements for mediators. However, the initiator's party supported both legislative proposals. The PVV was the only party voting against both times. That's what I wanted to say. This means that until now we are still the sole guarantor of the ruling of the Supreme Court on the right to change mediators. The initiative legislative proposal Act registry mediator of the initiator prescribes quality and training requirements for mediators in addition to the provision that only those mediators can register in the register to be established. The activities of such mediators alone shall be eligible for reimbursement by the Legal Assistance Board. The most important thing, however, is that I started with the idea that only those registered mediators should have a right to change. One point of criticism is that mediators acting in cross-border disputes in civil and commercial matters remain outside the scope of the initiative proposal. In the view of the PVV Group, the assumption of the initiator that a registry mediator will almost always be contacted because of the remuneration of the work by the Legal Assistance Board does not make this any different. Nevertheless, the PVV Group believes that the Registry Mediator Act is trying to fill this gap as much as possible. We'll just say, "Better halfway than completely lost." The above therefore means that the PVV Group can agree to the initiative legislative proposal Act Registry Mediator. However, I would like to ask one more question for completeness. The proposed Article 3 (3) provides that the training requirements referred to in paragraph 1 of that Article shall not apply for a maximum period of two years to the person working under the responsibility of a registry mediator during that period. It's kind of a mediator-student, so to speak, to stay a bit in the terms of the legal profession. Does this mediator-trainee have any right to change what has come to him or her as such? Before we are also put under pressure by D66, I would say that I am looking at the amendment on the register as a matter of interest. Why shouldn't you leave something to the profession if the profession can do it very well? That's what happens in law. Through D66, I would like to give that consideration to the initiator. I now come to the proposal to promote mediation in civil law. It states: "The court may refer the parties at any stage of the proceedings to a registry mediator as referred to in the Registry Mediator Act in those cases where it considers that the dispute in question is capable of being resolved by application of mediation. The dispute is suspected to lend itself to being resolved using mediation if this has a relational dimension." We have heard that come by many times. This is followed by a full list in the proposed Article 22a. That's a whole list of examples. For the PVV it is important whether this initiative proposal for mediation is almost mandatory before a court can decide on a course of action. Looking at the list in the proposed Article 22a, it seems very similar. In the opinion of the PVV Group, the mandatory nature of mediation is reinforced by the indication by the initiator that mediation, particularly in private law, is particularly suitable for resolving disputes given the often relative dimension of these disputes. According to the initiator, it is then up to the public authorities to prevent the parties from being sucked in a less appropriate, traditional procedure, without any objective consideration as to which solution method is most suited to the needs of the parties concerned. The initiator also indicates that at the moment, if one party wants mediation and the other doesn't, the latter will be the longest. He thinks that is undesirable and therefore the intention is now to arrange for the first, so the one who does want mediation, to come to the end. This is precisely what we should not want. It is already clear that there is no willingness on the part of one of the parties to engage in mediation, but we will force that party to do so. The initiator calls that "an incentive," but the PVV Group still sees that as a force. The initiator himself states that willingness on both sides is an essential condition for mediation. That is a contradiction to the almost compelling, very sharp stimulus. The decisive factor for the PVV is the condition that a subpoena must be included or tried by the parties to resolve the dispute through mediation, and if not, why. Why does the initiator want this to appear in the subpoena? It seems that one of the parties should be blamed for the failure of mediation. That too doesn't really want to help to force parties into mediation on a voluntary basis. In any case, in the opinion of the PVV Group, only one thing can be inferred from the foregoing, namely that mediation is practically mandatory before the parties can have the dispute settled by the court. This position is also supported by what the Minister already mentioned in the implementing law of the directive in response to the laying down of further rules on mediation: "Rules mean that the mediation process becomes less flexible while, in addition to digitisation, I want to involve mediation in the development of compensatory innovation measures in the cost-covering registry rights'. I now come to the initiative legislative proposal to promote mediation in administrative law. In the case of administrative law, the approach is slightly different than in the case of civil law. I think that Mr Van Oosten has a question on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-21.u98	That's right. When Mrs. Helder started, she mentioned the Act Registry Mediator. She was very clear on behalf of her group on what the final decision would be. She's ahead and she still has a few questions. With regard to the Law Mediation in civil law, she cracks a number of critical notes concerning the voluntary nature of mediation. She asked a number of questions about this to the initiator. What does it do with her consideration if those questions are answered satisfactorily? Can she be as clear about that as she was about the Registry Mediator Act?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-21.u99	Yes. In fact, that's my name, so I'll be clear. Of course, this depends on the response of the initiator. On Article 22a, on behalf of my group, I said that we believe that it is compulsory. I have heard a lot of colleagues say how that article should be amended. The most important thing was that the entire laundry list should be deleted, that the judge himself should be able to assess whether the dispute is suitable for mediation and that he should be able to move parties to mediation at any stage of the dispute. But that is the current practice. If that were the response of the initiator, the criticism on behalf of my group would be a little less. However, I also have four other bases on which we believe that mediation is indeed mandatory. So let me be clear: the chance that it will be a completely different judgment is very small. Mr. Chairman. I now turn to mediation in administrative law. The approach here is slightly different from that in civil law, because the initiator indicates that administrative bodies do not realise in all cases that a dispute with a citizen can be resolved efficiently through mediation. Given that public authorities can be expected to avoid conflicts or resolve them in the most accessible and satisfactory way possible for those concerned, it is obvious that regulation in this area should encourage a more active attitude of administrative bodies. That sounds positive, and this is what the draft law before us is looking at. The initiator's view that the government is trying to avoid conflicts as much as possible is shared by my group, but in this initiative proposal too, mediation is, in the view of the PVV Group, almost mandatory, despite the "yes, unless" starting point. In addition, the PVV does not see the need for this initiative proposal. Disputes between public authorities and citizens are becoming more and more proactively resolved. The informal approach promoted by the project "Happy contact with the government" contributes to this. Appeals that were eligible for mediation referral in 2009 are now much less frequent in court. In addition, administrative judges are better able to settle these conflicts at an early stage through the so-called new case handling and, to a much lesser extent, through the so-called administrative loop. As far as the PVV Group is concerned, the granting of legal status to the new case-law by the initiative proposal adds little to this. The question is also whether there really is a need for this law in practice. The almost compulsory prescription of mediation adds nothing and, in my group's view, can even be perceived as an obstacle. As has already been said, the core of mediation is the voluntaryness and willingness of parties. In conclusion, I would like to summarize my contribution. The PVV agrees with the Registry Mediator Act, but does not yet see anything in the other two initiatives because of the mandatory nature of mediation and because of the lack of use and necessity of legal regulation of something that already works properly in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-21.u100	This put an end to the first term of office when the three legislative proposals by Mr van der Steur were examined. Mr Van der Steur has indicated that he wants to reply very quickly. I am therefore going to try to schedule the first deadline for the response at least before the spring recess. I have heard Mr Schouw well, who asked not to schedule the answer at the same time as the second term on the part of the Chamber. I see a nod in agreement and will not do so. Twelve amendments have now been tabled. I would ask Mr van der Steur to respond to these amendments in his reply, or perhaps in another way.
