ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u1	Mr. Chairman. It is not going well with the prevention of attacks in the Netherlands. When it comes to dealing with released suspects and convicted persons, it becomes more unsafe in the Netherlands. People, guilty and innocent, are pushed out of society, into the hands of radicals, with all the danger of that. This is evident from the investigation "After the release" of Beatrice de Graaf and Daan Weggemans. I'm gonna ask the Minister how we're gonna fix this. Of course we are afraid of attacks, but do not let fear reign and let the facts determine how to solve this. Only hard and repressive action does not work and makes the Netherlands more unsafe. It's gotta be custom-made. So, does the Minister share the conclusions of the report? And if so, how will he implement it in the short term?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Mr Recourt for his questions on a report which is also very important in my opinion. The research shows that what we thought was right in the past was perhaps not the best approach we could have taken at the time. Based on the information we had back then, we just didn't have any reason to do it that way. At the same time, when you read the entire report, it appears that the approach we have now chosen is good. This approach has been agreed with the Chamber by my predecessor, the Secretary of State for Security and Justice, namely a move towards more tailor-made work and the most effective solution. Are we done with that move yet? I would like to say to Mr Recourt that this is certainly not the case yet, because we are gradually learning more and more how to do it best. What is the purpose of the policy we are pursuing? It's very simple. But let us, as I say here in the Chamber, put this first: if you end up in a prison in the Netherlands because of a terrorist activity, then you are there for a reason. We want people to suffer the punishment that goes with it, because they plot an attack, are members of a terrorist organisation or recruit people for the fight in Syria or Iraq, for example. Those are all reasons why people end up in jail. So they're in there for a reason. Once they are released, so is our system. We want them to be as radical as possible and as low a risk as possible to our society. We are learning this more and better, including on the basis of this report. That is why the report is important. But I cannot share Mr Recourt's conclusion that it is not going well in preventing attacks. We do everything we can to prevent attacks. Fortunately, we haven't had them in the Netherlands yet, but I think we should all realize that it is not impossible that an attack in the Netherlands can occur.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u3	That report is a lot more critical, because that says that in a number of cases government policy is counterproductive. I'm gonna zoom in a little bit after all. In prison, in which, by the way, guilty people are rightly sitting, there are also people who are merely suspects and who are acquitted and thus released. The conclusion is that some of it already goes wrong in prison. Most of it comes out more radical than it went in. After that, things are not going well because people are being thrown out of society and are not being admitted. Some success stories say: it is my family who helped me in the right direction. So how are we going to help the family, as a government standing next to the family, to get those people to build a normal life if they want to? Do we have enough expertise in the house? How do we learn from good examples throughout the Netherlands? And most importantly: success is caused by good people on the street: good professionals, like the district agent who not only looks very strictly at his job description, but who also takes on such a boy and says: you know, we're going to arrange an internship for you, because that's the way to get back into society. So you're not gonna sit on the couch at home and become more radicalized and frustrated, but at work! How are we going to give these professionals the freedom and also the expertise to deliver really good customization?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u4	Mr Recourt asks the right questions. Those questions are also involved in my department's current investigation into the individual regime in terrorist departments. In addition, there are the experiences of NCTV, for example, on the latter aspect: how do we get the right experts to ensure that people deradicate as best as possible? The results of the current investigation, which my predecessor had already promised to the Chamber, also lead us to look at the types of prisoners we have. You have impressionables and non-influenceables; the non-influenceables are best placed together. With the impressionables, you have to make them deradicalize. Can they do that best in a terrorist department or can they do that best in a department where there are ordinary prisoners? That is quite risky, because ordinary prisoners can also radicalise by a radicalised inmate. So you have to deal with that very carefully. It is clear that a general policy is not working. The only policy that can work is that I hear that also in Mr Recourt's questions is tailor-made. However, tailor-made work is complicated. You'll need information and research. The research of the scientists De Graaf and Weggemans, which I greatly appreciate, is a first step in that. The department's doing its own research. All in all, we will be able to deliver customization for one purpose, namely that when you get out of prison, you are as little radicalized as possible and as little danger to society as possible. I also very much appreciate the fact that Mr Recourt has asked these questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u5	The appreciation is mutual, because it shows that the Minister takes the investigation seriously. He rightly says that he is already investigating the period of detention, but this investigation is about the period after that. Does the Minister therefore wish to extend the investigation to the next period and to include this investigation as a serious element in it? We need to make the Netherlands safer; we need to do so, above all, by making the facts speak and not our fears.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u6	The last point I can certainly support, although I think that, if we look at the international context, some fear of an attack by radicalising young people is justified. Experience in other countries, such as France and Denmark, shows that we must continue to take serious account of this, no matter how horrible that may be. I would remind Mr Recourt that in the Integrated Approach Action Programme Jihadism the balance between these two, repression on the one hand and prevention on the other hand, is always coming back. We have many disruptive and repressive measures, aimed at control and security, but also at Mr Recourt's point: the rehabilitation, the exit facility under number 13 of the 38-point plan, and, of course, family support. Improved coordination has also been considered and more expertise in the chain is being used. By the way, last Saturday NRC Handelsblad wrote an article about it, which shows that it is not natural that you can find that expertise at once. I think the line as it is is good, but at the same time much needs to be learned. I will give further information to the Chamber on this report.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u7	I was in the recess at an anti-terrorist conference in Malta. The common denominator that I got out of there is that actually a country doesn't have the winning solution. However, everyone agreed that what I will call the www approach to re-socialization is by far the best way to live, work and bitch in general. It is therefore a very practical approach to bringing people back into normal society. I understand from the research that that is what it lacks. I think that it is most distressing for people who have not been convicted and who have been released but who are then on lists and who have problems with work, bills and a rental home. I would like to know what this minister is doing for this group of people who have not been convicted, but who are in trouble and who, precisely because of the approach of this government, are likely to pose a further danger to society.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u8	With regard to the three W's, the following. Everyone knows that these can also be the determining factors in the event of repeated crime. The same is evidently true, according to this conference on terrorism. I think there's a difference between the two. There is, after all, a difference in perception of the perpetrators of terrorist activities and of the perpetrators of ordinary crime. The last w, the bitch, I would like to leave to Mrs Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u9	We can talk about a woman, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u10	Yes, but I was quoting; Mrs Van Tongeren's text. It is clear, however, that parole is based on the idea that housing and work are important in preventing recidivism. It is also one of the points that the Secretary of State will work for in particular.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u11	It is about a small group of people, spread throughout the country, from The Hague to Helmond. Then you see that there is a great responsibility for municipalities who all try to invent the wheel and all do their stinking best and are convinced that they are doing well, but all do too little. This is a very small but very difficult group. I wonder where the government's responsibility is. Ex-terrorists, people who can be a major threat to society, need to deradicalise and get back to work. It can't be that we say here: that's a responsibility of municipalities and sometimes we help a little here. I ask this Minister where his responsibility is in this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u12	I think it is right that Mr Van Raak should respond to the invitation that I am about to make to him, namely that he should come with me for a week to see how I am almost daily engaged in the very consultation with the NCTV specifically set up for this purpose, in order to provide this support to municipalities. I also refer to the Security Council that I have with the municipalities and to the jihadist approach that I discuss with the municipalities. Every six weeks, I sit around the table with the mayors of the most affected municipalities to talk to them about exactly what Mr Van Raak is talking about: how do we ensure that the municipalities that have to carry out this task are supported in the best possible way? I would like to invite Mr Van Raak to attend such a meeting because that actually answers his question. Then he may also be able to ask that question to the mayors who experience what it is like to be supported by my department and the NCTV in implementing this policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u13	I see that Mr Schouw would also very much like to join us on that work visit.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u14	I wanted to request a letter and a debate on the same subject in the order of business. If the Minister promises here that this point will be taken into account in the investigation, the terrorism department and its approach, and that this new investigation will also be discussed in detail, what do we do with ex-terrorists and how do we deal with them? This will be dealt with by the Commission. I also make visits and I see quite large differences between one municipality and the other. Some municipalities really don't know where to start and what offer to face ex-terror suspects. Is the Minister prepared to consult with the VNG and, in the context of Professor De Graaf's research, to look at customization for these different municipalities, including center municipalities that are often in their hands now and do not know what to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u15	I can respond positively to both of Mr Segers' questions. Yes, I will address this issue very specifically in my next letter to the Chamber. I will also take into account the points raised by Mr Recourt in relation to rehabilitation and what needs to be done at the end of detention. In addition, I will provide this report with a proper policy response, which I will send to the Chamber. I, too, regularly speak with the VNG about jihadism. In order to comply with Mr Segers' request, I will, of course, discuss this report very explicitly with the VNG. If there are municipalities that still do not know, and if Mr Segers has concrete examples of this from his experience, I would like to hear them, because we are going to take immediate action on them. It cannot be that, with everything we know and everything we do, there are still municipalities that do not know what is expected of them, because they have a very own role to play. This role is very important, because we all need to work together to minimise the risk of radicalising young people.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u16	Thank you for coming to the Chamber, for your answers and for your commitments.
