ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-eerstekamer-4.u1	I ask the Members to stand up. On 6 January last, Jean Hendriks, former senator of the Christian Democratic Appèl, died. He was a member of the First Chamber from 10 June 1981 to 11 June 1991. On 18 August 1925 Jan Antoon Hubert Hendriks was born in Valkenburg. His father was head of an elementary school and a member of the Provincial States of Limburg. His mother worked at the parental hotel until her marriage. After primary school in Berg and Terblijt, he went to the Roman Catholic Henric van Veldeke College in Maastricht. From 1945 to 1950, Mr.Hendriks studied Dutch agriculture at the Agricultural College in Wageningen. After his studies he left for Suriname to help set up the Lelydorpplan. This plan was subsidised by the Welvaartsfonds Suriname, which was established by the Dutch government in 1947 for the development of Suriname. The purpose of the plan was to examine the possibility of using relatively infertile areas for agricultural purposes. In 1956, Mr Hendriks obtained his PhD on a scientific analysis of this project. After that, Mr.Hendriks worked for a large part of his life at the Royal Netherlands Heidemaatschappij. From 1957 to 1960 he worked in the Congo and Zaire; then three years in Belgium. In 1964 he joined the KNHM Deputy Director of Commercial Affairs, in 1970 Director of Research and Development and in 1973 Director of the Association KNHM. From 1 May 1983 to 1 September 1990, Mr Hendriks was director of the International Institute for Land Reclamation in Wageningen; an institute aimed at collecting and disseminating knowledge on the sustainable use of land and water, particularly in developing countries. In 1981 Mr Hendriks was sworn in as a member of the First Chamber of the States General. Here he was mainly concerned with higher education and agriculture. He was also Deputy Chairman of the Permanent Committee for Education and Science. In an interview in 1987, Mr Hendriks said that in his view the Upper House often functioned as the last straw. He also stated that First Chamber members have a wide field of view, especially because of their social position. He described the atmosphere in this Chamber as relaxed. By those who knew him from that time, Mr Hendriks is characterized as an amiable man who was always looking for compromises. A modest, honest and hard-working person. The hard work was reflected, among other things, in the large number of social functions performed by Mr Hendriks during his working life. For example, he was President of the European Association of Institutes for Rural Development, Chairman of the Netherlands Institute of Agricultural Engineers, Vice-President of the Heemschut Bond in Gelderland and Chairman of the Academy for Physical Therapy in Arnhem. Mr. Hendriks was an officer in the Order of Orange-Nassau. May our respect for his person and his great merits for our parliamentary democracy be to support his family and friends. I ask everyone to observe a moment's silence.
