ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u1	This was still on the agenda as a short look-back debate, but during the course of the work a regular debate was made. I asked the Prime Minister if, in view of the latest developments, he needed to make a statement in advance. He didn't do that. So we're going to start the way we always start. Mr Van Dijck has a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u2	I have a point of order. I would have liked to have seen the Minister of Finance in this debate. Not only was there a summit, but there were six or seven euro groups crawling around it. I have many specific questions for the Minister of Finance. Why isn't he here?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u3	The Prime Minister is going to answer that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u4	The Minister for Finance is currently preparing the meeting of the Eurogroup, which I believe will meet by telephone at 7 p.m. tonight because of the latest developments in the discussion with Greece. That is why he cannot attend this debate. However, I will try to serve you, along with his excellent official support, for 99.9%.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u5	We're not having a discussion with the Prime Minister right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u6	There is another debate on the Spring paper. Will the Prime Minister also deal with the Spring Note?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u7	Right now, I don't have any signals for that. I do not think that we will be finished with this debate at 7 p.m., if only because eleven speakers have spoken before the debate. The first speaker is Mr Pechtold of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u8	Mr. Chairman. From minute to minute, we are following the main players in the Greek negotiations. The interests are high and the stakes are increased daily. However, there is also a new proposal. The Eurogroup is discussing it tonight. That is why I would like to hear an update from the Prime Minister on exactly what is on the table. Last weekend, after nightly discussions, there was a proposal that took due account of the Greek wishes. A proposal with reforms on the one hand, but on the other hand, the remaining billions from the support programme and debt relief. Yet Varoufakis left the table. They wanted to buy more time and even more extension of the programme under threat of a referendum. A delay tactic which has not helped the Greeks and which will not take Europe hostage. The programme expires in about seven hours and the Sunday referendum would be about a deal that is no longer on the table. It's about a better negotiating position, Tsipras said. Juncker said it's about votes for or against Europe. Both fight with their own frame and strategy, which is not free from political risks. When the referendum comes, it is particularly important for the Greeks to be properly informed so that they can come to an independent judgement. In any case, the message that a "no" leads to a better negotiating position is an incorrect representation of things. Greek democracy counts no more than ours. However, I do not like the fact that a 'no' leads to the exit from the euro zone. My group calls for de-escalation with a long-term view. The main players of today will not remain, but also in the era after Tsipras, Juncker, Draghi and Dijsselbloem the Greeks are still our fellow Europeans. My group very much hopes that these key players will not bring about the political failure of the Eurozone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u9	I am surprised that Mr Pechtold is talking about the threat of a referendum. I heard a financial specialist tell Mr Koolmees that he's rejecting it. I wonder whether Mr Pechtold will also reject a referendum. Wasn't this the crown jewel of D66? Now, when it comes to Greece, D66 puts it in the wastebasket.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u10	I find that a curious question. Just because you're in favour of referendums doesn't mean you're in favour of every referendum at all times. I love herring a lot, but at 3:00 a.m. I don't have to think about it. You have to tell your people what's real. If the Greeks had consulted the people again a few months ago, I could have imagined that. In the middle of these negotiations, however, I think it is a sham to frame the people for the impotence of the politicians. I do not think that this is part of the decisiveness that Tsipras and Varoufakis sometimes radiate at the negotiating table, but which they apparently abandon at the time they are on the plane.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u11	You can't say: we're incredibly for referenda, but now it's not right for us, so now it's not? This is Democrats 66, isn't it? What is democratic about not accepting this? Or does Mr Pechtold say that it is the right of the Greeks themselves to hold that referendum, we accept that they do and we respect its outcome? Is that what he says?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u12	I really do not understand the position of the Socialist Party's fellow brothers in relation to the Greek politicians elected by the people of Greece. I feel very sorry for what the Greeks have been told in recent years and what they will experience in the future. I think that whole generations are gonna run out of there because of the problems. But I cannot tell the Dutch people that, because the Greek politicians are not performing and the Greek politicians do not have the guts to keep up with the negotiations in which they first said yes, we all have to stand idly by and watch what is happening in Athens. I'm very much in favour of democracy. The demos and cratos come from Greece, for God's sake, but where the Greeks set the beginnings of our civilisation, we must be careful not to lose our own democracy at European level.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u13	I do not have an answer to my question as to whether Mr Pechtold rejects the referendum or not. That's crucial.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u14	I have nothing to reject, because I am not a Greek politician. So as far as I am concerned, they may keep it, but it is too late, it shows impotence, it immediately gives the people the feeling that they are responsible when they are not at the negotiating table. Then Tsipras must simply state: I dare not, I cannot, I do not take it for my responsibility. So I'm not against a referendum. Let them hold that referendum, but the result is the impotence of Tsipras.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u15	I wonder what is going on with the democratic content of D66 in the Netherlands, because more than half of the Dutch want Greece to go out of the euro. And the Dutch are not asked if they are still willing to give more money to Greece. We are now asking the Greeks to accept that money, but the donors, the Dutch, are not asked. Do you agree with the PVV that we should hold a referendum in the Netherlands to ask if there is any more money to go to that bottomless pit?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u16	I am certainly not going to be lectured by a party whose party democracy means that one member decides what happens. First of all, start putting your own party in order and setting up a normal party democracy before you say to others who have submitted a proposal for a corrective referendum to the First and Second Chambers, so my group, they are against democracy. No, I think it's fantastic, just, under pressure from the past few years, the Greek people have chosen a government that has proved powerless to comply with their own electoral promises. I find it tragic, the poignant of what is happening at the moment, but it is mainly due to the Greek politicians that they are in these problems at the moment. I have a great deal of sensitivity towards the ordinary Greek population, those who try to go to work this morning and bring their children to school, those who try to provide for their old age and so on. They're no different from us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u17	If only D66 had some more sensitivity for the Dutch, because they are now 25 billion at the bar with the Greeks. That's money they'll never see again. You are so concerned about the Greeks and you give the Greeks all the referenda, but you do not give the Dutch voter, the Dutch taxpayer. The Dutch will soon be able to write on their stomachs and they will not even have a voice to make it clear whether or not they want to give more money to the Greeks. That is how you deal with the Dutch voters and that is how you look at the Greek voters, because they get all the possibilities and for them the red carpet is explained.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u18	The Dutch do have a voice. As long as the PVV doesn't have 76 seats and decides what happens here in the Netherlands, it will have to work with parties that are not in debt, also for this continent, for working with the other countries, for the goals that have been set and for ensuring that money is also made on this continent. Not only do you have to look briefly at debt loans, but then it is also 'out together, together at home' and you must ensure that the European values that lie outside the economic sphere are defended. I am well aware that Mr Van Dijck's party is different. I would like to hear whether the Prime Minister shares the analysis I have just conducted. I would particularly like to hear from the Prime Minister today how he will keep Parliament involved in the future in the developments surrounding Greece. We are not finished talking about Greece, because Greece also plays a major role in the debate on the European Agenda on Migration. The Greek islands are flooded by boat refugees. Something interesting happened at the European Council. All Member States that have opposed the mandatory inclusion of asylum seekers have a solution. The European Union is going to take on as many people who flee war and misery, but then it comes on a voluntary basis. All those countries that did not want to deliver are now doing so voluntarily. It's a wonderful solution. Forgive my cynicism. I ask the Prime Minister: how are we going to deal with this? How's this gonna be decided? How on a voluntary basis are we going to distribute these 60,000 refugees among reluctant Member States? Then I ask the Prime Minister: when will this be decided? How will the Prime Minister speed up this process? How is Parliament involved in this? And last but not least, what will be the Dutch commitment? In the meantime, it is clear that the approach "we do participate, but only if the rest goes first" has certainly not paid off. I wonder what would have happened if the Netherlands had gone to Brussels with a clear commitment, if it had not been hiding behind others, if it had not negotiated further but simply followed the Commission's proposals. Could some Dutch action have contributed to a different and better outcome? I would like to hear an extensive reflection from the Prime Minister on this. I ask the Prime Minister whether he is now prepared to make the Dutch commitment clear, to take the lead without all ifs and buts. Today, it is called a coherent approach. Will the Netherlands include at least the numbers originally proposed? I'd like to get a reaction to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u19	Mr. Chairman. I have read the fine words in the preamble to the EU Treaty. The preamble is about European integration, about inspiration from cultural and religious humanist traditions of Europe, about the historical importance of ending the division of the European continent and the need to lay solid foundations for the construction of the future Europe. Those are beautiful words. And if we put it next to today's reality, today's actuality, then we have to see that it is a dark hour for Europe. The euro that should have brought us closer together is playing us apart and removing us from each other. It's also a dark hour for Greece. Greece is burdened with debts that can no longer be repaid, an unemployment rate of 25%, youth unemployment above 50%, ATMs that are empty, political unrest and discord. It's a dark hour. How could it have come to this? There is currently a vacuum, a political vacuum. If a referendum is held in Greece on Sunday, a 'yes' will lead to new negotiations and perhaps a political crisis in Greece itself, but a 'no' will lead to a procedure at the Court and a possible grexit. Can the Prime Minister reflect on that? Where could the answer to the question put to the Greek people lead? What is being done in the event of permanent default? The deadline ends today and Greece will not be able and will not pay. Then what's being done? It is high time that alternatives were investigated. This muddy scenario, which draws on alternatives from old politics, will be a dead end. Is it not now time for a study of Greece's future outside the euro area? What is the Prime Minister's position on debt restructuring? He left some room for this in the debate prior to the European summit. How does he feel about that now? Greece needs a fresh start, with the help of the European Union, from the funds that the EU has available to Greece. We need a fresh start and a return to the European ideal. European solidarity is under pressure, not only for the euro, but also for the reception of refugees. The way in which the European Heads of Government deal with the refugee problem shows that solidarity is far from being achieved. It is appalling that it has not been possible to clarify the 40,000 people trapped in overcrowded shelters in Greece and Italy. For a union founded to ensure peace and justice, this is a total disgrace. Is the cabinet prepared to form a vanguard coalition with countries that are not waiting for others to come to terms with it? The group of the Christian Union is also looking forward to Italy's response. Will Italy indeed choose to allow migrants to cross the border uncontrolledly? In any case, solidarity is under pressure on this point and the question is what the Dutch Government will do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u20	Mr. Chairman. The news is changing all the time. The latest news is that Greece now wants an ESM loan of two years, i.e. a third aid package, a longer-term restructuring of current debt and until then an extension of the current programme. This is the brutality at the top! The marchanding goes on and on. Juncker now comes on his own with a new package. He's just canceling the VAT increase for hotels in that new package. He also promises debt restructuring. Is this an alleyway to Juncker or did the Prime Minister know about this? For five years we have been debating Greece in the Dutch Parliament. We are talking almost more about Greece than about the Netherlands. Greece, the country that should never have had the euro, the country that should never have been bailed out, the country that constantly fails to comply with the agreements, the country where you can retire for 50 years, the country with most civil servants and the country where hardly any tax is paid. We all know. This small country, less than 2% of the European economy, has been holding Europe for five years. Is that the profit of the euro now? The Greeks don't stick to appointments and train, blackmail, and scoff. We're being set up in front of us, and whoever doesn't see that is either blind or super naive. We should be glad that the Greeks want to accept our money and then only on their terms. So that's how we got married. That is the consequence of our word of yes to the euro. If one thing has become clear in the past week, it is that the Greeks are not going to pay off their debts. And then the Dutchman shoots in more than 25 billion. The Prime Minister said this was a limited risk yesterday. €3,500 per family is not limited, Prime Minister. The Greeks have fooled us for years. They promised everything, but they didn't do anything. And why should they, as long as Europe's money tap remained wide open? Tonight's the end of the show. Tomorrow Greece will be officially bankrupt and it will not pay the 1.7 billion loan to the IMF. That speaks volumes, the Greeks just won't pay. On 20 June, they will have to pay 3.5 billion to the ECB. They're not gonna pay for that. They're not gonna pay our 25 billion-dollar loan. The question now is how to proceed. The proposal no longer exists, the programme no longer exists and what are the Greeks actually holding a referendum on Sunday? According to Juncker, that's about staying in the euro or not. According to Tsipras, it is about the European proposal, which no longer exists. The only solution is for the Greeks to leave the euro and re-introduce the drachma. As far as PVV is concerned, this should have been done five years ago. It would have been a lot cheaper for the Dutch taxpayer. The Prime Minister made it clear last week that no delay was possible. I assume that the Prime Minister will stand firm: no package, no programme and no more money to Greece. And why are the Greeks allowed to vote in a referendum on whether they want to receive our money? The Dutch are not allowed to say whether they want to pay money. As I said just now in the case of interruption, half of the Dutch prefer Greece to leave and one in seven are against it. I have a few questions. What does the Prime Minister actually think of Juncker calling on the Greek people to vote yes, regardless of the question, and his appeal strengthened with the words "don't commit suicide because you're afraid of death"? That's a threat, isn't it? When the lights went out in 2005, the call was "vote for the referendum, otherwise the lights will go out." The manipulation of the populations of sovereign states by Juncker must be over. Can the Prime Minister call on Jean-Claude Juncker to stop giving such ridiculous statements and voting advice?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u21	Mr. Chairman. It was a very sad show last weekend. An economically rather insignificant country with an ultra-left government cheated on it again. It was a sad game of negotiation to keep the euro project alive artificially. Unfortunately, this will not be stopped in the coming days either. Let's bite through the sour apple and say goodbye to the Greeks. Then the money tap can finally shut down. A grexit is better for everyone in the long run, for us and for the Greeks. What approach does the Prime Minister propose to take back our billions from Greece if a grexit occurs at the end of the week? Then I have a question about the major problems with illegal migration. Denmark and Bavaria have decided to re-introduce border controls. My group is asking the cabinet to join it quickly. I would like to receive a response from the Prime Minister on this point. It is a good thing that the absurd EU plan, which Member States wanted to oblige to take in migrants, is off the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u22	Mr. Chairman. Last Saturday was a black day for democracy in Europe for several reasons. The Greek people chose a different direction last January. At least that's what it thought. In reality, there was only one direction, namely that of the troika, the policy imposed by creditors. However, it was also for another reason a black day for democracy in Europe. Greece didn't come out with the creditors, who turned out to be unwavering. The Greek government said we're putting it before the people. The creditors rejected it. Why the fear of presenting something to the Greek people? How can you ask the Greek Government to perform a play, pretend they're excited about it? Suppose the Greek Government would say to its own people: we have just signed an agreement with the knife on the throat, but we are positive about it. That's not credible, is it? Nobody's gonna believe that, right? I don't understand. How is it that we have saved banks for many tens of billions, sometimes on one weekend, not looking at a billion more or less, and now a whole country is being abandoned, when it comes to much smaller amounts? The difference would eventually amount to several hundred millions. On a European scale, that is not much, especially if it is enough to keep peace and stability, to offer the Greeks a perspective and a structural solution. This is ultimately in our own interest, not only because we are more likely to see our money again, but also because we have an interest in peace and stability in Greece. Let us not underestimate the geopolitical consequences either. Europe's policy towards Greece has proved to be a major failure. For five years, the country has been cut short. A decline in the economy of 25% or more, such as the shrinkage of the Greek economy, can only be seen in countries at war. Does the Prime Minister really want to say that the Greeks would have been worse off if we hadn't jumped in five years ago? Do you know what would have happened? Then the banks should have taken their losses immediately. If there had been a package of aid, the Greeks would have really done so, so that they could have invested in their economy and not had to cut into care. They wouldn't have had to cut it by half. Then they would have been much better able to pay back their debt eventually, because there would have been a thriving economy, or at least the chance would have been greater. Several Greek governments have messed up. They have started the fire, but the Euro-Member States have gone over it again with the flamethrower. The door would still be open and it would not actually be ready on Saturday, but I wonder what this means. What does Mr Dijsselbloem say? Do the creditors have anything to offer? There was supposed to be a renegotiation tonight. So what exactly is being negotiated? What conclusions does the Prime Ministers draw from the referendum that will take place next Sunday? What conclusions does he draw from a yes vote or a no vote? Unfortunately, there is little time left for an important issue: refugees. My group is very disappointed that no binding agreement could be reached on this issue. The government has previously indicated its willingness to wait for the efforts of other countries in this area before deciding on their own commitment. What does the Netherlands think of the commitment of other EU Member States? To what extent is the Netherlands prepared to set an example, regardless of the efforts of other Member States?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u23	That is a fine speech by Mr Merkies. I agree with the broad thrust of this. I do have one more question about this. We have often debated with Mr Van Bommel. He has sometimes indicated that the SP believes that it would be good if Greece were to leave the euro, but that the Greeks should be able to choose it themselves. Now there's a referendum. Does the SP still believe that it would be better if the Greeks chose to step out of the euro?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u24	No, this was rubbed at me last time. I have, of course, checked with Mr Van Bommel, because I do not know all his texts. I understand it's a two-year-old guy who responded to something by Mrs. Neelie Kroes. In that, he said something like, "That's right." Mr. Klaver, is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u25	Mr Klaver, where has it been said?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u26	Mr President, keep me in good shape, but I do not know. I didn't ask where it was said, I asked what the SP was like in here. I understand very well that Mr Merkies cannot follow everything Mr Van Bommel says.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u27	No, we have never argued that Greece should leave the euro, as Mr Segers, who is now on the microphone, has done. That's the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u28	Mr Van Bommel recently confirmed that it would not be a disaster if Greece left the euro. That happened in a broadcast of Chamberwide, where we were both present, but this on the side. I agree with Mr Merkies that in recent years there has been a disastrous policy towards Greece. Mr Merkies says that the voice of the Greek people must weigh heavily and that democracy counts there. Does he agree with me that there is also the voice of other countries, of other democracies? Does he agree with me that that voice must also weigh very heavily? I am thinking of countries where national income is lower than in Greece. I am thinking of countries where the tax burden is higher and where solidarity is called for with the Greek people. If democracy is so heavy, then that is not only true for Greece, but also for other euro countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u29	That's right. I will explain why I am mainly defending the Greek people. The Greek governments have made a mess of things and the Greek people are suffering. There is now a lot of talk in the vein of 'we will teach this Greek government a lesson' or 'we will teach Varoufakis a lesson', but you have the Greek people with this. And that's been pretty tough over the last few years. It is said that they only have to do a little more with pensions, but a lot of people have already turned in half their pension. A lot of people don't get care anymore. Many people do not have unemployment benefits, while they are unemployed. The numbers are known. A quarter of the Greeks are unemployed. So I think solidarity is definitely in place. We have been advocating this for a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u30	I note that the solidarity of the SP with Greece has increased considerably after the last election result. The SP was against aid packages and loans, but now it is in favour. That's okay, but that's a real square turn. But where is solidarity with the Irish people, with the Portuguese people? That's a lot to ask for. Many sacrifices have been made there, but the conditions laid down in the euro area have been met.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u31	It's hard to make such a comparison. In Ireland, salaries are very different. We are talking about the poorest country in the European Union. Let us take a look at a few years ago. Why didn't we call for this package of aid in 2012? Because that money didn't end up with the Greeks. This has also been established: 89% have been transferred to creditors, especially to banks. But 11% really ended up with the Greeks. In fact, we have mainly been saving our own banks. That was the main reason why we said: this is not a package of support for the Greeks, this is a package of support for the banks. The other important reason was that the proposed solution was not sustainable. I said literally at the time: 'We'll be back here in a while'. Well, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u32	I hear Mr Merkies say it every time...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u33	At least I'll be consistent.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u34	Most of the time I think 'let it go', but the 240 billion we lent to Greece has indeed gone to the banks and not to the Greek population. Mr Merkies is absolutely right about that. Why did it go to the banks? Because the banks lent the same 240 billion to the Greek government first with the promise that it would be repaid. So that money from all these packages of aid did indeed end up in the hands of the Greek authorities and the Greek people. The fact that they acclaimed this and that one in six Greeks retired for 50 years is perhaps due to the previous Greek governments. But the money's been used. They got the money. They did stupid things with it, but it did end up with the Greek people. Does Mr Merkies agree with me or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u35	No, I disagree. Let us be clear: the banks did not do that out of some kind of solidarity with the Greeks. That was just a business transaction. They get interest for that and run a risk. In fact, what is always true is that if I lend money to Mr Van Dijck and he goes bankrupt, I cannot go to someone to say that that person has to pay Mr Van Dijck money so that he can pay me. That has happened now: we had to pay the Greeks so that they could pay the banks. I think we all agree that that doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u36	That doesn't make any sense. We have also been saying since May 2010 that there should not be a penny for Greece. The banks have borrowed money from Greece, so the Greeks have to deal with the banks. However, this is what we are dealing with here. Mr Merkies keeps saying that the money did not end up in Greek society. But the 240 billion in debt that we have taken over from the banks has certainly fallen into Greek society in the past. They are the debt instruments of the Greek Government, which borrowed the money from the banks. Mr Merkies cannot therefore insist that the money never ended up in Greece. It is: not the aid money, but the loans from before.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u37	That's a crazy construction. Of course, I'm just looking at the support money, because that's what we're talking about here. I'll see what makes sense. It would be more logical if this were to come from the Greeks out of solidarity, but we differ on that. If it does end up with the Greeks, it will help you more, because then you will actually get it back. If we now get the grexit that Mr Van Dijck is advocating, the chance of getting the money back is very minimal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u38	Mr. Chairman. I'm standing here with an incredibly uncomfortable feeling. For months we have been watching what is happening in Brussels. How are the negotiations between Greece and the rest of the eurogroup going? Are they moving on? I'd almost say it was like two lunatics ending up on top of each other. You think, "One's gonna stop; one's gonna come to their senses and understand that they shouldn't run into each other." But last weekend, that moment came anyway. They're not gonna stop; they're gonna run! Something I have always thought impossible, namely a historical break in the euro area, seems suddenly imaginable. I'm glad I heard the euro group is getting back together tonight. Apparently they're talking again. At the same time I think: Is that the place to talk about this? It seems as if a simple, technical, financial and economic solution for Greece would still be possible at the moment. But should we discuss this in the eurogroup? Why are the Heads of Government not dealing with this? This should definitely be chefsache. The Prime Minister's good at math. I heard him explain on the news yesterday that only 0.5% of the total exports from the Netherlands go to Greece, so what could be the consequences for us? But what are the risks that banks in Macedonia or in Serbia or in other Balkan countries face in a grexit? What impact could this have on the Balkans and on the stability of the countries there? Has the Prime Minister considered the consequences of Greece leaving the euro and seeking support from his Russian friends, because it has no support from his European friends? What does that mean for the common strengthening and shaping of foreign policy in the European Union, for example towards Russia? Will the Prime Minister address the question of what the way Greece is now being approached means for all those Greeks who are in trouble? There is 60% youth unemployment and 25% less economic growth. There is no quick, technical solution. I believe that the Heads of Government should interfere with what is happening now and not just leave it to the Eurogroup. I would also like to know how the euro countries are going to give a hand to the Greeks. Has there been talk about debt relief, including last weekend and before? Is that an option now? Can we reach out to the Greeks in that way? Can we ensure that a package of debt relief is put together? We are not talking here about what exactly Greece's exit would mean for the Dutch economy or for the European economy, but we are talking about our geopolitical position in the world. I think that this is being considered far too lightly. At this European summit, not only did we talk about Greece, but you would almost think so. It is also right that so much has been said about Greece. However, I would also like to talk about the issue of refugees. It's about people who risk their lives crossing the Mediterranean. I find it truly regrettable that EU leaders have not agreed on the resettlement of refugees from Italy and Greece. The Prime Minister's reaction was economical and symptomatic of the belief that an agreement on this issue has failed. The Prime Minister now wants to wait and see what the rest of the countries are doing before the Netherlands commits itself. I think that's cynical politics. Does the Prime Minister really believe that nothing is happening in this area, or does he show leadership and take the lead by saying that the Netherlands will play its part in the European Commission's plans?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u39	Mr. Chairman. The first grexit in history took place in 1982, when Greenland left the European Union after a referendum. That was hardly a problem. A country that decides its own future was not unusual at the time. However, the European flag is now very different. We now have one single currency, which drastically restricts the freedom of self-determination for countries. The big problem is not that Greek citizens are potters. Banks from European Member States have taken irresponsible risks in financing Greek debts. When they became unsustainable, Greece was not saved, but in particular the French and German banks were saved. In any case, no more than 11% of the hundreds of billions earmarked for the project came to the attention of the Greek public sector until 2013. How high is that percentage now? There are a lot of questions to ask about this Greek drama. Rutger Bregman did that today. I would like to mention some of those questions. The country that has ever received the greatest forgiveness, Germany, now wants every penny with interest back from a debtor in death. Is that fair? The IMF knows that its austerity policy has brought Greece to the brink of collapse, but it wants to continue at all costs. Why? Jean-Claude Juncker complains about Greek tax avoidance, but has set up a complete tax promotion team from Luxembourg for, among other things, the most wealthy Greeks and multinationals. 40% of Greek children live below the poverty line. Greeks die because they no longer have access to basic medical care. That makes it annoying that former Social Democrats in the Netherlands now turn out to be harsh bailiffs. This makes it annoying that members of referendum parties suddenly call the Greek referendum an 'emergency leap'. We are part of this Greek tragedy not only bystanders, but also bystanders. This crisis is a next step towards a common financial and political system under one central direction. Sovereign countries are going to be under the jurisdiction of Europe. It is not just the Greeks who had to lift their democracy from the troika. The citizens of the other European countries are also repeatedly confronted with facts by Brussels. Now that the cradle of democracy is organising a referendum, there will be unhindered voting advice and threats from Brussels. That is unworthy of a Europe of democratic states. Greece is the largest reformer in the euro area. More than a quarter of Greeks are already unemployed at home. 30% of government personnel have been fired. Wages have fallen by 37%. Anything we ask more from the Greeks is too much to ask. As far as the super-rich and large companies in Greece are concerned, the Netherlands has thumb-endik butter on its head. In fact, large Greek companies allow their tax avoidance to run through the Netherlands. I'd like to get a response from the Prime Minister. A humanitarian disaster is taking place in Greece. That makes it particularly painful to hear spokesmen in this house particularly worried about our exports. The euro is not a binder, it is a spatter. Europe has no leaders, but only managers. Europe has business as a shareholder and national politicians as performers. The Party for Animals will not participate in this hopeless course. I therefore call on the government to stop further integration for the moment. Furthermore, I believe that the bio-industry needs to be stopped.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u40	Mr. Chairman. Perhaps it would have been better if we had paid close attention to Greece's accession to the euro area, if the motion of former colleague Henk de Haan had been adopted and if we had complied with our own rules, not only in terms of admission, but also in the following years. However, we are now in an extremely difficult position. It is unclear which plans are on the table. I regret that the Prime Minister has given up giving an update before this debate began. We're shooting at a moving target. The Greeks will be asked whether they agree to a plan of 25 June, while the EU itself made another proposal on 26 June, and the Greek Government has just made an attempt to say: it is a rather empty letter to put an alternative proposal on the table. This referendum is going to be used to everyone's liking. However, this will have to be made clear. My first question to the Prime Minister is: is there sufficient consultation between Greece and Europe, especially the euro countries, to clarify how the outcome of that referendum will be interpreted? When will there be further negotiations and when will it not be? Is it a grexit or not? Otherwise, we're all gonna interpret what happened on Sunday. What is the Dutch position in all this? Can the Prime Minister, in the plans on the table, indicate exactly what the costs of the programme are for the Netherlands on 25 and 26 June? Does that mean another two years of extension? Does that mean new expenditure on Greek aid and, if so, exactly how large are it? The Banking Union will enter into force on 1 January 2016. For that time, the countries themselves would be responsible, as the Finance Minister said here. However, that has not yet worked out. That effect may well be very necessary, I say with regret. When will this effect occur and we will know what happens when banks do not stand up? How will the EU assist Greece to maintain the essential elements of its economy? This is really in the interest of the euro countries. Even if Greece is not the poorest country in the Union, as colleagues here say, it could slip there. There were other issues on the agenda as well. The Five Presidents' Report went at a very fast pace. Just as quickly integration to achieve an economic and monetary union and also a political union. Is the government prepared to wait until after the summer to agree on proposals and then to inform us of the positions? The word "democracy" wasn't really in there either. So is the government prepared to come up with a separate chapter on democracy, democratic legitimacy and transparency? Those are things that the EU does not excel in right now. I come to migration and the problem of refugees. What exactly was agreed at the summit? There's no agreement. It's all voluntary now. For the CDA, there is only a European Agenda on Migration and Redistribution if the source is better addressed first. That means a UN mandate to tackle human traffickers. This means a UN mandate to establish safe centres in North Africa where refugees and displaced persons can be received. Europe must examine existing agreements with the countries of origin. Only if there are readmission agreements and a credible approach to immigration to Europe can there be cooperation. Only then can additional funds be made available from the European funds. If these conditions are met, resettlement and redistribution can also be discussed. The Netherlands must then be prepared to do so, as far as we are concerned. The current flow of refugees in need must now be assisted for humanitarian reasons, because the suffering is enormous. Acceleration of procedures can now be adjusted by giving temporary humanitarian status for return rather than excessive refugee status. I still have two loose sentences. TTIP would be on the agenda. My information question is: what information has been given to the Heads of Government? In the UK, Prime Minister Cameron outlined a timetable. We are only talking about the grexit, but the other is the Brexit, which could also change the Union very much. Is there any chance that this referendum will be issued during the Dutch EU Presidency? After the question on the Greek referendum, I also ask the question: is their referendum question clear?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u41	Madam President. The VVD strongly supports the fact that the Greek Government has not been admitted, not on the content of the programme, nor on the request for renewal or a referendum. The VVD has always been clear: for the credibility of the euro, the agreements must simply be maintained. After all, it has already been a quest, in recent years, for the minimum amount of agreements to be made in a currency union to be properly aligned. In this light, Greece has been aware of what it had to do since February. In fact, the country itself agreed to the February agreement to complete the current support programme. It is scandalous how much time Greece has wasted since then and, even worse, how it has in recent years been falling back on the real reforms, which could have helped it to recover like other problem countries. Portugal, Ireland, Spain and previously the Baltic States have shown that you can get on top of it. However, you must have the courage to intervene and reform, the sooner the better. Fortunately, the ECB has taken the only logical decision after once again leaving Greece by freezing emergency aid, although there is Greek optimism there again, namely that capital controls will be reversed next week. We will see it, but the recent examples of Cyprus and Iceland prove that you will get rid of it very difficult and only after many years. I can say a great deal more about the attitude of the Greek Government, which is destroying a country. But now I'm looking at where we are today. In a few hours, the programme for Greece will be over. Today Greece is nestling in a sad list of defaultors by not paying back the IMF in time. First of all, at 7 p.m., there will apparently be a telephone consultation of the Finance Ministers. I'm gonna ask the Prime Minister how we're gonna see this. Anyway, I'm saying I'm not gonna be in the game if we have to extend a little bit later tonight. The Netherlands and the other 17 euro countries also have a democracy. That concludes the programme for Greece this evening. Next Sunday, Greece will hold a referendum. As far as the VVD is concerned, that's a ghost referendum. It is a ghost referendum about a no longer existing proposal in a no longer existing support programme. Thus, even with a "yes" the thread cannot be picked up again. I do not understand the ease with which it is concluded in Europe on the left and right. Think of it: it is then a completely new application at the ESM. For this to happen, new conditions need to be negotiated in a country which is becoming increasingly distant from the economy in the coming days and weeks and which therefore requires far more radical modernisation in order to make the country competitive. And that is what is happening in a country that has been cutting back over the last five years, but has always been cutting back on the real interventions in the economy. And that doesn't just apply to the current Prime Minister, Tsipras. Let us not forget that the current opposition leader, Samaras, has also run the programme twice, in 2012 and 2014. It's all gonna be very complicated. I don't think that's gonna work, so our basic attitude is that we shouldn't. In any case, the reality next week will be that it is many times more complicated for the Greeks to rebuild their country. They won't pay off the debt until 2022. That's their least problem. Their main concern must be how they are going to rebuild their country in the near future, and they can only do so on their own.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u42	I'm trying to point out what the VVD group is saying. It is quite clear that the deadline for the support programme will end and that the support programme will end. What has changed in the relationship between Greece and the euro area after the deadline expires? Is that de facto a grexit? Or should I say otherwise?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u43	This too will depend very much on what is happening in Greece itself, but de facto, after today, the country is entering a period of default to the IMF, and the situation will be increasingly chaotic. That's not some kind of glass ball, but it's my expectation that this will happen. It would be very nice for the Greeks if it didn't happen. I believe that within the euro area too, we can only be ready to help with this to a very limited extent.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u44	Once again, I am trying to understand what Mr Harbers is saying. I have heard his partymate in the European Parliament, Mr Van Baalen, say: as far as I am concerned, we are heading for a grexit and it is more beneficial if Greece is looking for its future outside the euro area. Does the House of Representatives of the VVD say the same today? Is that indeed a much more real scenario than the continuation of what we have been trying to shape in recent years?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u45	I would like to distance myself from one thing, and that is the suggestion in Mr Segers' question that we can actively decide on a grexit. I have often said in this Parliament over the past five years: if there were plans or scenarios for an orderly exit from the euro, which the Netherlands advocated in the letter of September 2011, they would probably have been known and removed by now. By definition, it is chaotic, as we see in these days. However, I think that in the coming days it will be even more chaotic and that this will automatically lead to a grexit being a very likely scenario. That is what the Greeks themselves have caused, by the way. There is a life within the euro, but to do so, you must stick to the rules of the euro area, as we said in February. This minimal willingness was not present in Greece, not in this government, nor even in 2014 in the previous government.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u46	Mr Harbers adequately describes the current situation. If it continues this way, the chances of a grexit will be very high. But the question is what Mr Harbers wants. Does he want to prevent it? Is he prepared to take steps to that end? Is it an objective of the VVD that Greece can remain within the euro area?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u47	I think, deep down in my heart, that you should not have countries in the euro area that ultimately do not want to comply with any provision. That is not new; that is the position that the government already stated in a letter in September 2011 and that also supports the VVD, even before that. I'm not looking for it, but I'm finding that it's likely to lead to it right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u48	That is a fact, but the question is: what does Mr Harbers intend to do to prevent it? What steps does Mr Harbers intend to take and what political options does he see to prevent this? My group was clear. I believe that we must prevent Greece from leaving the euro. What does Mr Harbers want to do to prevent the scenario he is setting out?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u49	Mr Klaver is also easy to do, because he says he thinks that Greece should stay in the euro, but does not provide a solution. The reality is that it is only very limited possible to do so. First, Greece's gonna have that ghost referendum. You will see that next week's situation is really difficult, that it is not easy to get Greece in at all and that if one votes 'yes', Greece has to make a new application to the ESM. However, the package that was there this weekend cannot be simply polished up, because in the meantime I suspect that the economy has already fallen so far apart in Greece from those capital controls you can't easily get rid of a period in which it will last and last and the grexit will then be there. There is very little you can do about that, because I do not intend to sign again next Monday after the referendum for a new application from the ESM, without conditions or with shaky conditions. It can't be. Neither are the rules of the ESM. The reality is that Greece could have had a nice life in the euro, but it should have acted earlier and that time has passed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u50	Mr Harbers can say a lot to me, but not that I did not come up with a solution. I do not want to say that it is the right direction, because I do not know if we are going to get out of this, but I have indicated that I think that the euro countries should be prepared to proceed with further debt restructuring if Greece is prepared to reform. I think that's an important gesture. I think it is important to note that Mr Harbers is actually saying that Greece is on the path of exit. He doesn't really see what he can do about it, and he doesn't want to do much about it. With that, he almost accepts it as a fact of life. I think that's a shame. I had really expected a different attitude from the largest government party in the Netherlands, namely that it would do more to keep Greece alive.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u51	Also, as Mr Klaver suggests, debt write-off is not a solution for Greece. That debt is the least problem it has in the next seven years. It doesn't have to pay back on that. We don't have to do that until 2022. In other words, it's way too easy to write off the blame. You shouldn't do that at all, because that's really the wrong incentive. Greece needs very different things and it has not done so in recent years. We need to cut back, reform and modernise.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u52	Let me briefly summarise what Mr Harbers is saying: shit on the Greeks. I can't really say it any other way. That surprises me, because in recent years the Greeks have pursued a policy that the VVD actually supports. There's definitely been cuts. After all, reforming is often austerity. They even reduced the deficit by 20%. That's huge. That could be called quite an achievement. At the same time, however, the economy has been ruined. The only people who do not yet believe that are Mr Harbers and his party. What's in it for him? What good does it do him to keep going down that road?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u53	That was especially a long statement. In recent years there has been considerable cuts in Greece; I agree with Mr Merkies. There's been cuts in current expenditure. There have been increases in taxes which have only been partly collected. There has been a decline in real reform. I call it easier to set up a company or business that makes the labour market in Greece work better. There are all kinds of vested interests that counteract that kind of reform. That is the counter-image of the Netherlands. I am, by the way, the first to admit to Mr Merkies that a lot of people in Greece have been very unhappy at the moment. But those people suffer most from another part of the population, and that is not even the rich or super rich. I have often seen with my own eyes that even ordinary middlemen do not want to bring together taxes to ensure a normal level of provision in Greece for everyone. This is a domestic issue in Greece. We cannot solve it from The Hague or Brussels. Only people and parties in Greece can solve this themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u54	Then let me mention something that we agree on. There's been a lot of stuff lying around. Take, for example, the approach to tax avoidance and corruption. However, one could hope that this could happen with a new army and a new government. Of course, that's gonna take time, but you should give it a chance, right? Mr Harbers says it is an internal matter, but he does impose his ideology and his ideas on reform on the Greeks. That's a strange thing, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u55	Oh, no, because ideology is global. I note that what the Greeks have done is simply not enough and, ideologically speaking, is exactly the wrong thing to do in their economy. They should have reformed much more, made the labour market work much better and put much more emphasis on competitiveness. I suspect that Mr Merkies and I will be able to debate this all evening long. Perhaps we will be able to pursue this later on in the debate on the Spring paper, but I simply note that we are fundamentally opposed to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u56	I welcome the input from Mr Harbers, who is a Greek expert, because I understand that he has often been on holiday there. Still, I'm wondering. Tonight at 7 p.m. Mr. Dijsselbloem has Tsipras on the phone. Tsipras says, "I'll do it. Get rid of those hotels," Juncker has already promised "in view of the tourist season. I'm signing." Then Minister Dijsselbloem calls Mr Harbers of the largest coalition party at 7.30 p.m. and asks: do you support me, Mark? What does Mr Harbers say?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u57	Then I'll say no. And to get ahead of that question, I have just said so in my speech. The democracy of ours and of the other 17 eurozone countries is also worth something, which prevents us from signing at the cross just as quickly tonight after one telephone call.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u58	Okay, that's clear. Extension is not an option either. That is what Mr Harbers has just said in his text. Considering the past five years, the process and the way that has gone with hanging and strangling Greece made empty promises... is my next question whether a third support package from the ESM is an option for the VVD at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u59	This is gonna be hilarious, because I just told you all this. After a referendum, by definition, you are talking about a new application. I have just told the Chamber that it is all going to be very complicated, whoever is in power in Greece now or in some time. Because the current opposition has also let it slide. I don't think this is gonna work. If you see it's not gonna work out, our basic attitude is that you shouldn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u60	Yeah, pay attention now! Our basic attitude is that we don't have to do it. That's another thing than saying not a penny to the Greeks. That is the uncomfortable statement of Mr Harbers's party colleague, the Prime Minister, on which he is, of course, stuck every time. Because, yeah, "I'm not signing at the cross tonight," could mean that it will be tomorrow. The same goes for "it's not our basic attitude." Is it still not a penny to the Greeks?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u61	We're not going to look into the crystal ball. I just told you that. Things can get really complicated over the next few weeks. I think it's getting particularly complicated on the Greek side. I therefore believe that such a proposal will not be made at all, and when it comes our basic attitude is that we do not.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u62	Just "no" would have been clearer, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u63	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u64	That means the basic position is "don't be." But if it is a responsible package and a third package is needed for the Greek people, of which we are all in the Chamber saying that a large part of that population is really not responsible for the mess that both the current and the previous politicians have caused, then the VVD says that it will not say to the Prime Minister: this is impossible. I think that's important. I think that's wise. I think that is a sensible basic position. This indicates that you should never just press a red button and say: not a penny to the Greeks! 'Cause sooner or later, you just can't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u65	The miracles aren't over yet. I do not think miracles will happen, and I therefore believe that we should not give a penny more to the Greeks, at least not in the form of an ESM treaty. If this is to go on long enough, I think there will probably have to be some form of humanitarian aid to Greece from the European budget. But that's a whole different story.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u66	Mr. Chairman. With regard to miracles, the SGP has a somewhat more optimistic pattern of expectations than Mr Harbers, but let's leave that for a moment. Mr. Chairman. "A big plastic smile," I described last week's optimism with regard to the Greek proposals. At that time, many became euphoria: we are coming out, 30 June will be the day of truth, namely a 6 billion refund to the IMF and the end of the support programme. During last week's debate, I indicated how the Greeks passed deadline after deadline. Apparently, there's still a deadline. On 5 July, the Greek people will be allowed to speak. Does she or does she not agree with the proposal? The question is then: what proposal again? Anyway, a referendum is being held and that on the cradle of our democracy! You'd say you couldn't think of it any better. But appearances are cheating again, because the only thing the Greek government makes clear here is that it doesn't take the agreements so seriously. In the meantime, there is a new deadline, namely 20 July, because, finally, on 30 June, it is only a loan from a public institution, the IMF. 20 July is the date on which the ECB is to be repaid 3.5 billion euros and the ECB has more powerful resources in its hands. It can't be that we keep going on like this, can it? When do the Greeks take the other euro countries seriously? What about the last offer Juncker made last night? Does that still apply: appointment is a deal? Or does the whole negotiation game ultimately give the Greeks an increasingly favourable proposal? In the meantime, there are reports in the media that Tsipras will lead to the European Court of Justice if Greece has to get out of the euro or if access to the euro is, as it were, cut off. How does the Prime Minister estimate the possibility that it is indeed not allowed to evict a country from the euro? What instruments does the European Union have to act actively in this regard? I'd like to get a reaction to this. The next point I want to mention is migration. The pressure on the asylum system of the southern Member States in Europe is high. The EESC welcomes the fact that, in exceptional situations, the Netherlands is taking additional responsibility for asylum seekers. The SGP does not consider it a problem that this responsibility should not be imposed. Voluntary alignment is also fine, as long as the target number is achieved. The SGP focuses on two key issues. First of all, rules must be observed. You can only expect willingness to help Italy and Greece if these countries are fully committed to complying with the rules. Unfortunately, this is not always the case. In some cases, the registration of asylum seekers is omitted. The government has rightly drawn attention to this, but what are the results of this? What is the point of putting our finger on that? Is the taking-over of asylum seekers actually linked to compliance with the agreed agreements? A second key issue is a fair distribution between Member States. Not all countries in Europe bear a proportionate share of the responsibility for asylum seekers. The SGP considers it understandable that the distribution takes account of the high influx in countries such as Hungary and Bulgaria. However, countries such as the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Poland are not subject to mitigating circumstances. Can we assume that the government will make maximum efforts to ensure that these countries simply take their share? Finally, does the Prime Minister consider the agreements that have now been reached at European level to be sufficient to deal with the profiteers of the miserable people, namely the traffickers? Are these inventoried agreements, the steps that have been taken, sufficient to say that I dare say: to tackle criminals? Or does all kinds of household textiles play a leading role in this? That is to say: a mop to mop with the tap open, curtains for the windowdressing and a doily on the floor to clean up the problems we encounter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u67	Mr. Chairman. The PvdA also finds the situation with, but above all also in Greece very worrying. The Greek Government is acting irresponsiblely against its own people, who are in difficult social and economic conditions, but also against the European partners. The PvdA wants an attempt to find a solution in the interests of Greece, but also of the Netherlands and Europe. This is really essential for the Greek population, which is getting more and more difficult. This does not apply explicitly to the oligarchs, who still have the dance, even under Syriaza. In order to find a solution, it is a requirement that the Greek Government should address, among other things, corruption and tax avoidance. It is also essential for the geopolitical situation in that region and the importance of stability on the south-east flank of the European Union to find a solution to the Greek problems. The PvdA strongly supports the line taken by the President of the Eurogroup, Dijsselbloem, and also by the Dutch Government to keep the door open for the Greek government. A compliment to Mr Dijsselbloem for his perseverance, again today, to continue to seek a solution is appropriate here. The PvdA wants everything to be done in these crucial hours and days in the interests of the Greeks, the Netherlands and Europe to come to that solution. However, we cannot watch coffee. The same goes for the Prime Minister. We'll ask him what's the most obvious scenario right now. What is the risk that the instability in Greece will shift to other euro area countries? The PvdA is disappointed by the results of the European Council on migration problems. Mr President, I think Mr Merkies would like to ask a question on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u68	This is fashion these days. Go ahead, Mr Merkies, you may ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u69	Thank you for pointing out to the President. I hear Mrs Maij talking about tackling corruption and tax avoidance. Of course, we are in favour of that. I heard her colleague Nijboer say they didn't do anything. I wonder how the Labour Party has looked into this. Does Mrs Maij know which minister is involved in this and what he is doing about it? I have the feeling that it was a bit out of the blue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u70	As far as I can see now, also from the documents of the negotiations between the Eurogroup and the Greek government that have been revealed, Syria is not taking the fiscal measures that need to be taken. The corruption is still not under control. Certainly tax avoidance, which I have also heard from Mr Merkies, is still the order of the day.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u71	So you do not know which minister deals with this, namely Minister Nikoloudis. If you look into it and say they're not doing anything, at least base it on something. They haven't completely contained the corruption after five months, but what did you expect? I would hope, by the way, that this is the case. However, there are plans. I understand that they are being stopped by the troika and that they say that we want to get out of it together first. There are plans to do something together with the OECD. But that takes time, so to just say easily: nothing happens... And last but not least, what does Mrs Maij think of the role of the Netherlands itself? A lot of multinationals are avoiding tax through the Netherlands. I would also like to hear from the PvdA a more powerful sound against tax avoidance via the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u72	I have a huge tendency for a you-bake and I'm gonna do it. Mr Merkies tells me that I do not know which Greek minister is working on this. He then said in his entire speech: I believe that the troika was consulted and that they did not agree and I believe that there was someone else...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u73	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u74	Yes, you did; you can read it. You didn't mention with whom or when. If you are talking about deepening, you should also look into it very carefully. What is important to us is that there should be a solution that will help both the Eurogroup and the Greeks. I think it is clear that, in my view, you yourself have said that corruption and tax avoidance are not being sufficiently addressed at the moment. I can even quote you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u75	I'm sorry, but they're making you-baked.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u76	I get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u77	My point is that it's a little out of the blue. It's being worked on, but are you surprised if it's not resolved in five months? I hope it will be speeded up, but let us focus on this and not on tackling pensions even further. Nor did I hear Mrs Maij say anything about the role of the Netherlands. As we have read this week, a great deal of tax avoidance of multinationals in Greece goes through the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u78	Two things about that. One: I think it is insufficient what is currently being proposed to tackle tax avoidance and corruption. I think that Mr Merkies should agree with me, because he himself said that it needs to be handled better. I think we all agree that this is not only in the interests of the Greeks, but also of stability on the south-east flank of Europe. It is also geopolitically important for Greece to become stable. Secondly, my colleagues in the Chamber have often spoken about tax structures through our Zuidas, which may not be too nice and which we want to do something about. So Mr Merkies does not have to appeal to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u79	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u80	I'm going into migration now, as I just said. The PvdA is disappointed by the outcome of the European Council on migration issues. Everyone knows the images of millions of refugees from countries like Syria who have been driven out of their homes. Everyone sees the images of people who, at the end of their advice, find themselves dead on a rickety boat in the Mediterranean Sea. Unfortunately, the picture on the other hand is that European leaders are mainly talking about the question of which Member State exactly how many people should be relocated from Italy or Greece. All Member States express solidarity with their mouths, but when it comes to concrete actions, it is a lot more complicated. The PvdA is concerned about this, also because this deadlock has existed for a long time. Can the Prime Minister indicate to which countries the main blockades have been for an obligation to participate? How did the Netherlands contribute to achieving progress and removing these obstacles? Is it true that, for example, the four Visegrád countries were only willing to participate voluntarily, and they were simply not willing to do so at all? What confidence does the Prime Minister have that the agreements will be met voluntarily? The PvdA wants volunteering not to be voluntary. Otherwise, there is a risk that once again insufficient concrete steps will be taken to really tackle the refugee problem in Europe and manage it in a spirit of solidarity. That would be embarrassing. We hope that the Prime Minister will be able to overcome this fear. We have already concluded that these proposals are not just about resettlement or relocation. It's not a choice menu, it's an integral proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u81	I share that with Mrs Maij.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u82	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u83	And also the concerns expressed by the PvdA Group. But what has the PvdA done itself in recent weeks when we tabled motions in the Chamber to at least allow the Dutch Government to have a clear position? It was the Dutch government that hesitated for a long time. It was PvdA and VVD that didn't come out. Now we have a voluntary admission and the Dutch people are told again that they have to do it, while other countries do it. What does Mrs Maij think of these European developments and of the Dutch cabinet, which she supports?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u84	I discussed this with your colleague last time. In my opinion, the PvdA has made it very clear that the Netherlands must take its part. We would very much like the Dutch Government to make an effort to ensure that other countries do the same. That is why I asked the Prime Minister what exactly was going on in those talks. I would also ask Mr Pechtold not only to talk about these flat numbers, because it is a much larger and more integrated programme. I hope that we will work much more broadly with the programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u85	Mrs Maij and I will find each other there too. When these ten points came from the Commission, D66, like other parties, said: let the Netherlands lead the way and say that it is an integrated approach, which we embrace with all the things that are associated with it, including that key. For those who say that we must destroy boats, there is something in it and for those who want a fairer system of refugee shelter there is something in it. That didn't happen. The Netherlands went bumping in the back. I see that today's call by the PvdA for the Netherlands to stand for that part can make an important contribution to the debate. Is the PvdA prepared, by means of a motion of its own, a motion from the Chamber or by asking the Prime Minister to make that statement, to ensure that the Netherlands embraces that key and absorbs that part of the 60 000? In doing so, we are showing the right example and hopefully forcing other countries to follow.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u86	I would love it very much if the Netherlands of the 40,000 would replace that part that we have agreed to. I also asked the government that question, and it is also the question that my colleague, Mr Kuik, has asked the government. I await the answer on how this has been discussed in the context with the other European countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u87	After all, we're the best little boy in the class.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u88	I'm a girl.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u89	I mean the Netherlands. That wasn't my question. Does Mrs Maij, like Mr Harbers, say that extending the current programme is not an option, that debt restructuring is not an option for the Greeks and that a third aid package from the ESM is not an option either?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u90	I assume the question is about Greece.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u91	Mr Van Dijck is finishing his question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u92	Is she saying that to Mr. Harbers?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u93	I have just made it clear that it is very important for the PvdA to find a solution. This is good not only for the Greeks but also for the Netherlands and the European Union. Frankly, I do not want to anticipate the form of that solution. We have noted that it will be discussed again in 35 minutes, and I would like to wait and see. As far as we are concerned, a solution must be found.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u94	So for the PvdA all these options, extension, debt restructuring and a third aid package are still open. But now Mr Dijsselbloem calls Mrs Maij at 7.30 p.m. with the question: do you support me, because they have signed. Does Mrs Maij then agree or does Mrs Maij, like Mr Harbers, say no way, José?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u95	No, I have a dark brown suspicion that Mr Dijsselbloem will call my colleague Nijboer. I'll talk to him about his reaction. I need to see what the proposal is first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u96	There was just a pleasant debate with the colleague of the SP. It was about whether enough is being done by the Greeks in tackling tax avoidance. That is also a point of criticism that we have often had. In the Greek plans I have read so far, I see that a tax is proposed on ship magnates, that there is talk of a capital tax above €500,000 and that the business tax goes from 26% to 28%. I am curious to see what measures Mrs Maij is referring to when she says that not enough is being done to tackle tax avoidance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u97	This is not just about writing down how taxes are to be paid, because that has been happening for a long time in Greek history. It's also about collecting taxes. These activities really need to be taken up by the Greek authorities, apart from a number of measures as you call them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u98	We agree on that. One of the major problems in Greece is that the tax authorities are not working properly there. Then you can think of what you want, but then you never get real results. However, then we do not need to make these agreements now. As far as public sources are concerned, the European Commission and the Eurogroup have indicated that it is very important, for example, that such a tax should be levied on ship magnates and that the shipping tax should be increased. The Greeks say that's what they're gonna do. This is one of the ways in which tax evasion is avoided. And that wouldn't be enough? I don't quite understand. That the IRS isn't functioning, we agree. That does have to be much better. But the Greeks are committed to tackling everything in the area of tax avoidance. So I'm trying to figure out where the problem is. Then why don't we accept that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u99	Because I think there are two things next to each other right now that you should be able to see in parallel. It is a question of tax reform, i.e. amending the law on certain taxes. In addition, it is a question of tax avoidance, i.e. that a person who is liable to tax does not pay taxes and uses all kinds of constructions, including because the tax system does not work properly. A number of taxes must therefore be laid down in a different way in the law, but insufficient steps have yet to be taken. Then there is another point I would like to make. The Council invited the High Representative Mogherini to continue working on a strategic review of the European Union's foreign and security policy. This is necessary because of changes in the international playing field and its impact on the EU. Last week we were shocked by very bloody and murderous attacks in which dozens of people were murdered in Kuwait and Tunisia. Every day there are deaths in civil wars. Today there was terrible news about women and girls being raped and burned alive in South Sudan. We must not get used to the fact that security conditions around the EU are deteriorating in this way and that instability in the Middle East and parts of Africa are increasing in this way. The direct effects on stability and security within the EU are clearly visible. The PvdA wonders why a detailed strategy will not be presented until June 2016. We share the government's commitment to the great challenges facing the EU today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u100	This brings to an end the first term of office. The Prime Minister has indicated that he can answer directly. I shall therefore give him the floor for his answer in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u101	Mr. Chairman. I would first like to address the questions on the situation in Greece and then the other questions that have been asked. I can talk about Greece long and short. Let me try to do it briefly first, and I am sure that I will be challenged by Members to speak longer about it. The actual situation is that Friday evening Greece unilaterally abandoned talks with the institutions. That was also the observation made by the Eurogroup last Saturday. Actually, I'm making a point. I am asked, of course, what I think of the referendum. I am going to tell you that I have no idea. That's a matter for the Greeks. I am not going to say whether I am in favour of a yes vote or a no vote. That really is an internal Greek matter. Nor do I believe that I am helping the Greeks to have a view on what they should vote, if I understood exactly what they were going to vote on, because I do not quite understand that. So it really is a matter for Greece, an internal matter. The fact is that the talks have ended unilaterally. Asked whether this means that a grexit is ultimately inevitable. In any case, I must say that it is all legally extremely complicated when a country should leave the euro area and how it should. Actually, nothing's been arranged for that. In the future, you can get the situation that a country is actually no longer a member of the ECB's Eurosystem. This could also happen once, but there are no orderly procedures for a country to leave the euro area. That is also a fact. What I find then, you can find in the letter of September 2011. The Netherlands believes that this should be organised more in an orderly manner, but there is no such procedure at the moment. Okay, what are we gonna do now? That's up to the Greeks. The euro area has said that Greece will have to take really difficult measures to help the economy get on with it. This means cutting back, but above all reforming, making the economy healthy again. Those are really difficult measures. On Sunday, the institutions have put down a list of actions; that is a really spicy package, and it must be. The Greek economy cannot be replaced by soft measures, that is really not possible. Difficult measures will have to be taken. I think it is a tragedy for the Greek people; I say that honestly. It is extremely difficult for the Greeks now. I realize that. Should this matter continue to develop in a negative direction, we must always be prepared to take humanitarian action. Exactly how to do that, we will see in the coming time. That's not the issue right now. However, we must be prepared to make a contribution if the situation continues to unfold in this way. In short, the situation is as follows: the talks have been terminated, the Dutch Government has no opinion on the referendum, nor what the outcome should be, and we will discuss it when the Greeks put forward proposals that mean that they are prepared to accept the package of measures that the institutions have laid down and to speak on that basis. However, that is not yet the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u102	Before I give the floor to Mr Segers, I have a brief statement to make: Mrs Thieme has indicated that she can no longer be present because of obligations elsewhere, but that her staff are following the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u103	The Prime Minister was right to say that there are no roadmaps and that we do not know how a possible exit from the euro area should take place. However, we should draw up these conditions. Does the Prime Minister say that we should have prepared ourselves better for such a grexit, and that we should indeed be preparing exit conditions in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u104	Yeah, but not so much because of a grexit. Since the letter of September 2011, the Netherlands has considered that you should agree on how a possible departure from the euro area could proceed in an orderly manner. Many of the proposals contained in the September 2011 letter, including the strengthened position of the relevant European Commissioner, have become more similar to the position of the Commissioner looking at internal market conditions. It has thus gained a more independent position in the Commission. This has been reflected in the two-pack, the six-pack and the adaptation of the Stability and Growth Pact since 2011, but this wish of the Netherlands has not yet been realised.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u105	The Prime Minister refers to a letter of September 2011. We've been here almost four years. We could and should have prepared ourselves, especially as a result of a motion in the Chamber that said that exit conditions should be prepared in view of a scenario that is now taking place.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u106	The Netherlands is, of course, prepared monetaryly and economically for any major shocks in the euro area. However, the question was another: is there, politically speaking, an orderly procedure for a euro country to leave the euro? The answer to that is: no, it does not exist.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u107	We proposed such a procedure at the time of the introduction of the euro. My question is about the referendum. Minister Dijsselbloem rejected the referendum very clearly at first. Now I hear Prime Minister Rutte say: we have no opinion. That means, I suppose, that he has no opinion on the fact that the referendum is being held. However, it is kept. Then the question is: if something comes out of it, if the people decide something, what does the Prime Minister do with it? Or doesn't he do anything with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u108	No, I'm not doing anything with that. We are waiting for proposals from Greece, before or after Sunday. These proposals should be in line with what the institutions have laid down. If the Greeks accept the views of the institutions, we will continue the talks. Minister Dijsselbloem did not say whether we are in favour of or against the referendum, but that the proclamation of the referendum as such means the end of the talks. It has also been interpreted by the Eurogroup.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u109	I think that's weird, too. I find it odd that you consider letting the people speak as ending the conversations. That is not the end of the conversations. In this referendum, the Greek people show what they think of the proposal made by the troika on 25 June. My question is: is the Prime Minister saying that the Greeks are actually holding the referendum for bacon and beans, or is he doing something with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u110	The Dutch Government really considers the referendum to be an internal matter for Greece. By issuing the referendum and submitting the proposals of the institutions to the people, with a negative opinion, the negotiations have been terminated; that is what you actually have to establish. That was also clear in the Greek communication last Saturday. Their request was: can you, pending the referendum, extend the existing package? The Eurogroup said: no, we really need an answer now, because the package ends 30 June. Whatever exactly the outcome of the referendum, it really is a matter for Greece. For me, it is relevant whether the Greeks call today, Saturday, Monday or later and say: we have looked very closely at the conditions laid down by the institutions. I would add that you have to bear in mind that the situation will have deteriorated rather than improved, because the economic situation in Greece has obviously not improved because of all the developments in recent days. So you're gonna have to re-examine whether what's lying there is enough. That will again be up to the institutions to assess, because the macroeconomic conditions have naturally changed since Saturday. If Greece called and said that it would accept the whole list of prior actions and would like to talk on that basis, we would continue the conversation. However, that call is not foreseen at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u111	The Prime Minister said that nothing was actually settled with regard to the departure from the euro area. I'll take that for granted. If you no longer have the euro as a currency, can you remain a member of the EU? The Prime Minister needs to know. He has also been a campaign leader for the EU Constitution, so I assume he knows that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u112	I do not believe that this is what the EU Constitution was about. No, listen to what I just said. There is no orderly exit scenario. It is not at all the wish of the Dutch Government that Greece should leave the euro. It's not our purpose, it's not our wish. However, there is no free lunch. If you get support from Europe, then as a country you have to make your economy healthy and finally get back on your feet. There's a whole list of ideas from the institutions on how to do that. That's a spicy package. I'll acknowledge that immediately. Anyway, we've also had spicy packages here in the Netherlands. We are in the middle of it: 51 billion reversals, cuts and major reforms. You can see the effects. You can also see effects in programme countries such as Ireland, Spain, Portugal and Cyprus. Take an economy like Iceland. These countries, both inside and outside Europe, have all taken far-reaching, complex measures and are now reaping the benefits. I am convinced that this would also apply to Greece, if it is prepared to do so. Then you have to implement it consistently, not kicking and screaming fight every proposal, eventually agree and then not implement them properly. Then you're really gonna have to do it con amore. That's leadership. Then Europe is ready to help. That is the discussion that has been going on for the last five months and which the Greeks have ended on Friday, or at least aborted.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u113	That is why I am asking the question: I think the Prime Minister should know whether they can stay in the EU if they do not actually have the euro. That is a question that is coming, which is becoming very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u114	This will mainly be a discussion between Greece and the ECB, because then you will talk about the monetary system and its connection to the euro system. This is not primarily a matter for the Eurogroup.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u115	I'm a little shocked that the Prime Minister says we're in a totally uncertain area. Minister Dijsselbloem said about four weeks ago that the euro area and the Netherlands are well prepared for plan B. Can the Prime Minister confirm that we are sufficiently prepared for plan B?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u116	I already answered that question. The question raised at the time is whether the Netherlands is prepared for the monetary and economic effects of a serious crisis in Greece. The answer to that is absolutely yes. The euro area as such is much better than in 2.11.2010, or 2010/2011, when this whole issue began. We have developed the necessary tools. Think also of the banking union, the far more separation of banks and sovereigns, which makes the euro area much better prepared for shock waves. If you look purely at the specific Dutch situation, you will find that the Dutch-Greek economic relations are very limited. About 0.5% of our exports go to Greece. This varies from one sector to another. In some sectors, the share of exports to Greece is somewhat larger. It is not expected to have a major impact on the Dutch economy. We are also, of course, prepared for monetary union. The question to Dijsselbloem from then on can also be answered with a strong yes. However, the question that was asked to me earlier was not about that. It was more about how politically speaking the resolution of a country that would want or should leave the euro area. There is no orderly process for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u117	Then there is the second question. It's about the referendum. The Prime Minister doesn't give an opinion. I can imagine. However, I believe that the Prime Minister and I share that view which is not relevant, because the package of 25 June is not on the table, and that is the package on which the referendum question is concerned. Is there another attempt by the European partners and Greece to ensure that the Greek population has any idea of what it is saying yes or no to when it is in that voting booth on Sunday? Or are we going to have a very long discussion on Monday in which everyone will interpret the referendum in a way that will not help us at all and, even more importantly, we are going to go further into politics in even more disorderly forms of negotiations?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u118	Once again, the Dutch Government is not going to interpret the outcome of the Greek referendum on Monday. That really is an internal matter for Greece. The only thing that is relevant to us is a possible message from Athens, from the authorities there, before or after the referendum, and I say with emphasis before or after, because the referendum itself is an internal Greek matter, that one is prepared to continue the discussions on the basis of the list of priority activities drawn up by the three institutions. Then there's another basis to continue the conversations. I would add, however, that the existing programme has actually expired. I don't see a legal opportunity to extend that either. I do not know how you could organise that in a parliament such as ours or Germans or in other parliaments in the next few hours. I don't think that's legally possible. So you actually have to establish that the program has expired. You'll probably also have to come to the conclusion that it's up to the institutions to really establish that, but that's what I suspect if I look at it through my eye hairs -- that the macroeconomic investors of such a program will be significantly worse because of the situation that the Greeks themselves caused by breaking off the talks on Friday.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u119	How does the Prime Minister then assess the voting opinions of President Juncker or his other European colleagues who are giving votes to the Greeks? Shouldn't they have?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u120	It's open to everyone, but I won't.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u121	The Prime Minister clearly keeps the door open to reopen talks if the Greeks say yes to this package. However, this package is an integral part of the programme that is about to end and that is about paying out that last tranche. At the end of the programme, there is no point in talking about this package either. That is, after all, the past, because that is the last tranche of yes or no. Then why does the Prime Minister say that it still makes sense to talk about this package? That's mustard after dinner.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u122	Mr Van Dijck is, of course, partly right in that formal after midnight, but in fact already I believe that Harbers and others have already found that the existing second aid package is gone. What lies ahead is a view of the institutions on what should happen in Greece in order to restore the Greek economy. If the Greeks were to say at any time that they wanted to talk to Europe, it would be minimal on that basis. Once again, I would like to say that my expectation is that the underlying macroeconomic conditions have now deteriorated so much that more probably needs to be done than has been mentioned by the institutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u123	So the Prime Minister says: the programme is over, the package is not part of a programme anymore and is actually over. So he's going into a whole new phase, talking about a new package, a third support package, perhaps from the ESM, which has just been fired by the VVD. So the Prime Minister is actually opening the door to a third aid programme with a new package, for which that package last Saturday is the basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u124	No, that conclusion doesn't add up. Then I'll look at the other questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u125	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u126	No, no, the Prime Minister's going to answer now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u127	I replied to the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u128	According to the Prime Minister, that conclusion is not correct. Then I want to know what's wrong with that conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u129	He was just about to explain that, Mr Van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u130	No, not at all. He's jumping to a conclusion that doesn't add up, and I'm finding it doesn't add up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u131	He thought he'd take it off with "this conclusion doesn't add up." Then I want to know that this conclusion is not correct. I think the program's over. The package is a package of what Greece should do in the future to get back on track. Then the only possibility for aid is a third aid package from the ESM. There is no other possibility. What is wrong with this conclusion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u132	Once again, Mr Van Dijck gives the impression that I am opening the door or inviting the Greeks to something. I'm just finding out what the situation is. The situation is that the matter has been broken down and that every country in the euro area can always call and ask for support. That is so arranged and so is the Netherlands. You can never forbid a country from doing that. Each country can do so according to the rules we have agreed together. I would just like to make it quite clear whether that request comes from the fact that if you look at what is needed to help the Greek economy above it, that is at least what was there last Sunday. That has been looked at for a long time by very sensible people. Way too long, actually. Not because these sensible people needed so much time, but because the Greeks had great difficulty accepting these obvious conclusions so far and still do not accept them. I would add that my expectation is that what should have happened has only got worse.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u133	Do you have another question on this point, Mr Omtzigt?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u134	Yes, thank you. The question I had left open here is how big is the third aid package that was negotiated last Sunday. How many additional loans were provided to Greece? What other things were provided for?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u135	There were no additional loans, no new money.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u136	Mr Omtzigt, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u137	So it would be a programme of a year or two without new money for Greece?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u138	The talks have been going on for five months, and I think the President of the Commission knows that since February, he has been talking about how to use what is still in the pot of the second aid package in a sensible way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u139	I asked a question about forgiveness.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u140	I still have some questions to answer about Greece. These were my general introductory remarks. I come now to the various questions that have been asked. I have already been able to answer a number of them because of the interruptions. How is Parliament involved in the discussions around Greece? The Chamber is, of course, regularly informed. I assume that the Minister of Finance will be even more than that, and I promise to do so this evening, I will send a report on the consultation of the Eurogroup, which will be held by telephone. In addition, there is an information protocol with the Chamber on these issues. There were all kinds of questions about a yes or no in the Greek referendum. I answered it. I also answered the question of what I think of Juncker's call. I have also answered the question of whether the Greek population is being taken into account. Then what would happen if Greece left the euro area? If this would also lead the country to payment problems, the commitments would go to the Club of Paris to negotiate the debts. I would point out that in the Paris Club in a high-income country there has never been remission. Debt write-off is out of the question. It is right that a number of spokesmen have drawn attention to the geopolitical consequences. We talked about this last week. I said at the time that I think we should be careful not to use that as an argument to make us blackmailable. For me, the no-bail-out clause in the Euro treaties remains crucial. In doing so, it is very important that a country receiving aid also takes its responsibility and takes far-reaching difficult measures to get back on its feet as quickly as possible and to be able to repay the aid. That is very important. I would also point out that Greece is well embedded in the international western structures, as the European Union, I assume, will remain a member if it leaves the euro area and NATO. The geopolitical embedding of Greece is therefore also an important comfort in this respect. However, as I said earlier, this is, of course, a major issue for Greece which is now at the heart of the matter. I still hope that it will end with membership of the euro area.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u141	In one sentence, the debt restructuring is put aside for a moment: that is not the issue. However, in the debate prior to the European summit, the Prime Minister said that we should look at the sustainability of debt, whether or not additional measures should be taken. So then the door was open and now the door is shut in one sentence. My question is whether we are holding Greece at a number of times when it is very dark for Europe, where it looks very gloomy and at which it is chaotic. Are we holding Greece and could debt restructuring be part of a solution?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u142	Not debt restructuring, 'cause I think you'd be talking about forsaken, and I'd be against that. You can always look at alleviating debt by looking at maturity. However, I said last week that this has already happened. In November 2012, the durations and interest rates were reduced, so there is little stretch. Maybe some, but little. I also said that we do not need it. When you look at the debt against Greece's national income, you see that it is a huge problem. You'll be talking about 180%. I understand that's a very complicated mental situation. If you look at what is really the cost of the debt compared to the annual budget, you will see that it is not so bad. In our calculations, it is very bad, precisely because, for example, those debts have been extended and interest rates have been reduced, all in 2012. My expectation is that the debt at the moment, as we are looking at it now, is sustainable. Mentally it is a huge problem, but in the practice of annual budgets it is well sustainable. There is therefore no reason to take further action. By the way, it was agreed in November 2012 that if that picture changes, the euro area will always be prepared to look at that issue again. I do not expect this to be necessary at the moment, but the 2012 agreement is in place, provided that Greece has complied with all the previous actions and implemented everything, and that is still somewhat lacking.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u143	It is a huge percentage of national income. It is a burden that affects not only current Greece, but also future generations. It's also about a perspective that you're offering to Greece. Where we are now in danger of losing each other, where countries are in danger of being played apart, the question is also what is the perspective that you are offering to Greece and to a future generation. Is that not a question that is very clearly on the table: the demand for new hope for a country that is so incredibly heavy in debt?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u144	Once again, I am fighting that Greece is practically sighing under debt at the moment. Mentally, yes, because 180% sounds big. Japan is well above 200%, by the way. Italy is now at 140%. I understand in my mind that 180% is a lot, but when I look at the costs of that debt in the annual budget, because of the agreements made earlier, I wonder what is the point of further lowering interest rates or extending debt. We declared our willingness in 2012 to look at it if it were to become a problem again. If you look at that debt now, there's no direct cause for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u145	This is exactly what I meant by that financial-technical look you're looking at. I agree with the Prime Minister on his own. If you look now at the debt that Greece has to bear, it is not so bad, certainly until 2022. However, it is not only a financial problem; it can also be a political problem. If it is so important for the Greeks that Europe indicates that debt restructuring is possible, that their debt relief is to be envisaged, say from 2022 onwards, I will just mention a year of debt restructuring if they have carried out the necessary reforms, why is that not considered? Why is that not the prospect for them? Why is it just said: it's not a problem and so we don't have to do anything with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u146	That general agreement that Mr Klaver outlined here was made in November 2012. If necessary, the euro area would always be willing to look at the debt again. That is what Mr Klaver is asking. That was agreed in 2012. That's not news.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u147	The Prime Minister was ordering coffee from the messenger. That's not what I asked. The question I asked was a very different one. I don't think we can say there's a problem right now. In fact, we now have a big problem, an emergency package, a support programme that ends tonight, and for the Greeks debt restructuring and debt relief is a very important part. If it would help to reach an agreement between Greece and Brussels, between the head of government, to give the Greeks the prospect of debt restructuring and to include it in the package that is very important if Greece is to implement the reforms requested, then why is it not going to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u148	That was already agreed in November 2012! I don't know what else we can get together. Then it was said: if Greece does everything neatly and then there are problems about the debt again, then we will look at it again. It's already been agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u149	Finally. This was agreed in general terms in 2012. The question I asked in my first contribution... I admire the ease with which the Prime Minister always answers questions here, but it's not a pub quiz here. I asked the following question very explicitly: has that been discussed this weekend? Has it been discussed with the Greeks to include it in the new package, in the new deal we would make with the Greeks? That's where the crux is! That may well have been discussed and agreed in 2012, but is this cabinet prepared to include the prospect of debt restructuring in a new deal with the Greeks?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u150	Not in the euro group, because the euro group has not had a chance to speak with the Greeks at all. The first thing that had to happen was that the Greeks agreed with the institutions about the end of the program. That's what the Greeks broke down. If they had succeeded and had come out, then the eurogroup would have started to talk about what had to be done. I have already said to the Greeks myself: there is an agreement from 2012 that if debt becomes a problem again, the euro group will be prepared to look into it. That deal's there! What else do we want now? I don't know what Mr. Clover wants from me. I can repeat it a few more times: that is what is lying there. That deal's out of 2012. If Greece does everything neatly and the debts become a problem, then we will look at that again. The Greeks aren't doing well at the moment, but let's say they're gonna do well again, and the debts are gonna be a problem, and we're gonna take a look at that. There's a deal. If you ask me whether I expect it to be necessary to extend the debt at some point in time or to lower interest rates, then I tell you that it is the estimation of our accountants that it is not necessary by far, precisely because all these periods have already been extended and interest rates have been reduced. I would find it strange if Mr Klaver were to say: you must do it, because it is so politically important to the Greeks. We're not going to spend money on something that isn't necessary, are we? Isn't that what you do when it's really necessary to help Greece on its own feet? If you don't have to, you're not gonna spend precious money on that, are you?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u151	I understand that Mr Klaver feels that a question has been asked to him. It could have been a rhetorical question, but I'm still giving him the opportunity to answer it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u152	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm glad I can answer that question. If you have to put the Greeks on the verge of debt restructuring, if you have to say to them "that's possible," if it is politically necessary to come to a deal and to keep Greece in mind, and if the Greeks suddenly agree to all the reforms that are being asked, so that it would be possible to come together, then that is a price that I say we should pay, because I think that maintaining Greece in the euro area is of the utmost importance. There's a price tag on that and I'm willing to pay that price. The question is not, however, whether I am prepared to do so. The question is whether this Prime Minister is prepared to do so. In his answer I almost hear 'no', but I would find that really incomprehensible and irresponsible for a Prime Minister of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u153	I say it even worse: it was promised to the Greeks in November 2012. It's on paper. Everyone's been able to see it. If they stick to all the commitments and debt would be a problem again, the euro area is ready to look at them again. That appointment is on paper, which was made in November 2012. I don't know what else I can do. I can make that appointment one more time or we're gonna put it back on paper. If that's what Mr Klaver means, it's all wonderful, but it's already happened. Then there is the question of what to do, and I am right to find it from the Chamber, whether I expect it to be called upon to do so. Then our assessment is no. We don't expect that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u154	This is entirely based on the assumption that Greece will remain within the euro area. Then you can indeed fall back on the 2012 appointment. There is now another option on the table, namely a grexit. Would debt restructuring be an option in that scenario and offer hope in the scenario?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u155	Then you'll end up in a completely different scenario, where debt restructuring is not on the agenda as far as I'm concerned. So that's the rejection of guilt, and I don't think you should do that. I really don't believe either, but then I'm going to improvise a little bit, that in such a scenario debt is the first problem. I think that in such a scenario a few Members said it should look at what is humanitarianly necessary in the short term. That seems to me to be a priority.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u156	I ask the Prime Minister whether it is right that solidarity with Greece should be maintained in a Grexit, and that in that case we should indeed hold each other within the context of the European Union and see what we can do to offer hope to the Greek people.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u157	Yeah, but also with appointments that it's not free lunch. Once again, of course, you must always be prepared to talk about humanitarian aid, about immediate emergency aid, if necessary in the event of such a situation. Mr Segers is moving on. Are you gonna talk about debt, too? I repeat, I wouldn't be in favour of remodeling. I honestly believe that extending periods or further lowering interest rates is not helping Greece now, either inside or outside the euro area. What Greece needs to do is to help its economy. I can't make it prettier. I would like to shout it to the Greeks via this microphone: there is no easy way out! You have to take tough measures as a country! Then you can recover, then you can stay in the eurozone, then you can become a strong country. Greece has everything to be an insanely strong country in the euro area, but then they have to go through that difficult phase. What I have seen over the past four months are Greek politicians who, with every obvious measure, are all measures we have taken in the Netherlands, and many more kicking and screaming explaining that they cannot take them, that it is not social, that it is not accepted. If we had thought of all these measures here, we would have been in a mess ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u158	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u159	Just a few more questions about Greece.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u160	The Prime Minister's words amaze me. He says they don't do anything and then refers to the Netherlands. I know that the Prime Minister is otherwise capable of doing so, but they should easily increase VAT from 13% to 23%. They cut a lot of pensions there, so I don't understand where the Prime Minister gets the verdict that they're doing nothing. I wonder what people are talking about tonight. The Prime Minister actually says: it is already closed, nothing is happening and if there is a new application, then I am going to ask the Greeks more. Then there's no perspective for those talks tonight, is there?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u161	First, Mr Merkies' first point. What has happened in recent years, through these extremely complicated negotiations with Greece, is that in all these packages there has been a great deal of emphasis on cutting back and, above all, increasing revenue by increasing taxes. That is not a sustainable route, not a sustainable route towards economic recovery. Economic recovery requires, of course, that you put your public finances in order, but above all reform the labour market and fundamentally reform pensions. If you look at where we stand now, thankfully, thanks to the three institutions, the proposals have been properly adjusted, also in the direction of reforms. But if you compare it to what we're doing here in the Netherlands, you might want more. I wish the Greeks would want that for themselves, that's my plea to them: do it because you want it, because it's important to your country, because it makes your country healthy. That's just part of it. You cannot count on others to put you on the infusion of money if you are not prepared to carry out those far-reaching reforms that are necessary to leave Greece on its own feet. That's what I'd like. I'm not going to say anything about what's going on tonight, because that discussion is going on. This debate is taking place in parallel with a final response from Athens, on which the Eurogroup meets. I am silent on this, because what we are discussing here is also shared internationally. I cannot talk about an actual development which has taken place since 1 p.m. this afternoon in plenary session in the House of Representatives. I can't do that. I can only do that in private consultation, but not in public.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u162	In recent years there has been a troika policy, a VVD policy, which has also promoted the right-wing Samaras. Then the troika kept saying: we welcome that. But it was precisely that troika policy that caused this misery. The Prime Minister did say something about this tonight. He said it's already closed for him. There is an application for support from the ESM. That's what the Prime Minister actually says: I'm not doing anything with it. They'll talk to the Prime Minister's institution for nothing tonight, won't they?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u163	I'm really not gonna talk about this in public right now. Given the euro group that is currently taking place, it is really impossible for me to ride through it with public comments. But quite apart from that, I think the actual observation is that I would not know how your Parliament could organise another extension of the existing programme over the next five hours.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u164	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u165	Mr Segers asked what is being done in the event of permanent mispayment by Greece. He referred to the IMF. Of course, it is up to the creditors, including the IMF, to decide how to deal with a missed payment. This also depends on the arrangements made in the loan terms of the creditor with Greece. That's not up to us. That's really up to the IMF. I believe that I have answered all the questions about Greece, unless someone gets angry now. Mr Klaver is still angry, at least he has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u166	The anger is not that bad, but I had asked a question about the risk of a grexit for countries such as Macedonia and Serbia and if there is a default in Greece.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u167	I don't have an answer to that so quickly. I could, of course, think of that immediately, but I am going to ask you to do something about it, and I will come back to it later in my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u168	I had asked a separate question about the banking union. There will be a transitional mechanism until 1 January 2016 that we would be informed about. We had, of course, hoped that the transitional mechanism would never have to be used, but I would like to know in the meantime whether it remains the responsibility of the country itself, or whether the Netherlands can still be charged by this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u169	That is the 0.1% I feared I would not be able to answer without Mr Dijsselbloem, so I am going to see if I can be advised on this. If not, you really should discuss it with Mr Dijsselbloem. That is the disadvantage that he is not here, but I meant for a moment that I was just fishing for a little compliment that I came a long way without him.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u170	The Prime Minister has come to an end, but this is a very expensive question, because, of course, there is 90 billion of aid available for ELISA and, in the case of a grexit, it could collapse Greece's entire banking system, for which someone would pay the bill. It is therefore of the utmost importance to know what it would be like in that case and what the Netherlands is doing to minimise the fall-out and the financial consequences for the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u171	That really is a matter for the ECB. Then you're talking about ELA, and so you're asking what you do in certain scenarios. The ECB could decide in any scenario and has already done so in order to clip the ELISA. It could also ask for the ELISA support to be recovered. That is a request that it makes to the Bank of Greece, which must continue to do so to the commercial banks. This would, of course, have far-reaching consequences for their liquidity and probably also for their solvency position, although you can only formally establish this after an AQR. And then, of course, the new rules are there with deep bail-ins before you get to all kinds of public funds.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u172	Thank you, for the ELISA that is the answer, but that means that we do not have the 89 to 90 billion back yet. But it's also about settlement. There are indeed deep bail-ins in it, but in a very deep crisis we pop through all those deep bail-ins. The Greek loans are currently non-performance at tens of percent. This can also be imagined in an economy which has shrunk by 35%. So the capital can't be enough if it goes on like this. There would be no solidarity mechanism until 1 January 2016. How is this dealt with and sent to it in good time? That proposal would have been there for a long time now, but I just haven't seen it yet. It's getting more relevant than we might have hoped.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u173	I have to pass that on to finance, because that is not what I am talking about in this debate, but I have just outlined to Mr Omtzig what will happen at least in the event of the ECB being asked first. It must take a decision on this matter in the Governing Council. I outline a potentially far-reaching decision that could be taken, but I am not going to go over it, nor is Mr Omtzigt. That is up to the ECB, but it concerns the recovery of the ELISA and what could then have an impact on the Greek banking system, which will then be settled as I outlined. If commitments have also been made on concrete transitional mechanisms, I will look into them and I will recall that letter coming to the Chamber. Then I come to the issue of migration. Yes, it is well known that the Netherlands would have liked to have worked with quotas because, of course, that is the most preferred position, especially if you look closely at it and also given the Dutch position that we believe all countries should take responsibility. By the way, that was in the night of Thursday on Friday. We have not talked about Greece for very long in the European Council itself, but we have talked about it for three to four hours. That was a fierce debate because indeed the Visegrád countries but also other Eastern European countries said: we do not want an obligation through quotas. This has led to a discussion about the question: but what do you really want to deliver? It will now have to prove in practice whether it really is happening, but I was surprised by the widespread statement that they are prepared to deliver what is expected, provided that this is not mandatory. They said that they were particularly irritated by the fact that in April the European Council decided on a voluntary relocation scheme and that the Commission had now decided on more binding quotas for such a temporary emergency mechanism. Once again, the Netherlands had backed the Commission in thinking that this would offer the greatest chance that everyone would join. The Netherlands also has another wish, of course. We believe that quotas should eventually be introduced. I do not rule out the possibility that they will come later if we talk about a more permanent solution, so we now have a few interests to serve at the same time. First of all, I want to make it clear to Brussels, to our colleagues, that once quotas return to the carpet, the Netherlands will find that it will weigh more heavily on what countries are doing today, which they are already contributing, in accordance with the letter we sent to the Chamber in response to the Commission proposals. We will continue to lobby for this, including in other countries. In addition, the Netherlands is willing to pay the number mentioned in the table. We will be called with the question: So, what does the Netherlands want to do? Then we will say: We are doing that number of over 2,000 that is mentioned, provided that other countries do too. I do not think that one country will be able to participate in this, but I also think that this is justified, namely Hungary, because that country, in fact, has noticed that you are also in a position like Italy and Greece, with a very large influx of asylum in the European Council. So we'll say, yes, we're willing to take that number, but we reserve the right to see what the other countries are doing and we're really going to see at the end what the total sum is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u174	I think Pledge was something my mother used to rub up furniture with!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u175	Yes, you come from a good family, I see!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u176	You will not fail to emphasise that, Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u177	We had that at home too!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u178	Look, we can shake hands again. I do not know exactly what I am doing now, because the Netherlands agrees with the Dutch part. I find that valuable, but then I heard phrases like "but so do others" again. However, I also hear phrases such as 'let us count our blessings, for the others do not say no, provided it is not mandatory'. But we can wait a very long time and what I find worse: these refugees are still waiting for a very long time in camps. I really want to hear from the Prime Minister how fast it can be and that, if there is a country that is in conflict, that cannot be the problem and that we are not going to wait for that 28th country with 27 countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u179	That if-then question I park, because then you come up in scenarios that can't be calculated exactly. For the Netherlands, we believe that the other countries should also contribute, although we must recognise that Hungary has a special position, for all kinds of reasons. We can understand that particular position. If other countries assume their responsibilities, so does the Netherlands. The Netherlands will then be prepared to implement the 2.048.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u180	Let's speed this up. Otherwise, it'll have to be in a letter. When does that happen? What's the time?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u181	That is up to the Commission.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u182	That's up to the committee, but there's 40,000 people waiting. The camps in Italy and Greece are spilling over. That's all I care about. I find it a little complicated because we are about to enter the summer recess, when we do not know what the Netherlands is going to do, but above all what Europe is going to do with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u183	To this end, the JHA Council will adopt a decision. All Member States have now committed themselves to reaching agreement on the distribution by the end of July at the latest. The Luxembourg Presidency immediately started working on it. That's procedureal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u184	If that happens at the end of July, can we get a letter from the cabinet in the recess with progress?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u185	Of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u186	"Pledgen" is "promise." Does the Dutch promise depend on what other countries do, or does the Netherlands in any case assume its own responsibility?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u187	No, I just said that. The position of the Dutch Government is that we are prepared to promise that number of asylum seekers, although it is higher than we strictly have to accept on the basis of the quota adjustment we want. But there's no quota now. We also think that it only strengthens our negotiating position on the quota by not being too clumsy about this. So we are prepared to promise that number. But we're going to see what other countries are doing. Whether or not the number becomes definitive will really depend on whether the others take responsibility, so Hungary has a special position.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u188	The question is whether we leave Italy and Greece to their fate when a number of countries sit on their hands and do nothing. Is the Netherlands then prepared to take a step and at least take the Dutch share, because solidarity with Italy and Greece is worth something in this respect?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u189	I'll outline the Dutch position. I can't do that any more clearly. I'm optimistic about it, by the way. I sat at the table that night. It became very intense in the discussion a number of times but not on this point. I sincerely saw that the Eastern European countries gave a strong impression of wanting to contribute to this. Maybe I'm naive, and then my words will be lied to in the next few weeks, but I know my colleagues. I would be surprised if I had been naive on this point. I think it might work out, but we're gonna have to wait and see. I really think solidarity is important, but we do a lot like the Netherlands. This year, I don't know exactly how about 30,000 asylum seekers come in here. We treat them nicely. Moreover, it is also crucial that Italy and Greece should take much better account of the asylum influx, including administratively, in the decisions on asylum. We are prepared to help each other, because European asylum policy, even when it comes to entry control, needs to be implemented much better than it is now. Those countries have also expressed their willingness to do so. We'll see what the other countries are doing. I think this leverage is sensible. If someone calls for him to do it at least when it doesn't matter what the rest do, what are we doing in the European Union? We are talking about a common problem, in which we are trying to help Italy and Greece. Why don't you ask everyone to join us? That's not so crazy, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u190	Sure, you can ask. That's very good, actually. I encourage the Prime Minister to ask for much more. How, however, will you proceed if no is said later? For Hungary an exception is made but imagine that one, two, three or four countries do not. Does this mean that the Netherlands does not keep its promise?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u191	I'm not going to make any statements about that right now. Everyone knows that the Netherlands is willing to make a contribution of this magnitude if the rest of us do. We reserve all rights in respect of the quota. That discussion will come back someday. We have a firm position on this. By doing this now, I think we are only strengthening our position in that discussion. They know our position. We want to do this if everyone else is in on it. I don't work through all the dance scenarios right now because they're coming out. This does not promote a positive outcome of the pledging process in Eastern Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u192	In almost every debate, whether on taxation or on the discussions in Europe, we are told that the Prime Minister cannot say so much in public. In my opinion, it is of the utmost importance that we, as a parliament, should be able to control what the Dutch Government wants, not only afterwards but also in advance. I am now asking what it means if some countries do not agree, while most European countries do agree. I would like to hear from the Prime Minister how the Netherlands stands in it and whether it can be discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u193	In debates on international issues, it is inevitable that we should be talking to each other about what the statements are about here and in other countries. In this case, I am not helping the process at all by passing on all kinds of as-dan scenarios. Then I come to Italy's threat of giving foreigners a visa and refusing Dublin claims. I understand that there is no longer any threat from this order on the part of the Italian Government. Then there is Mr Bishop's question about the human trafficking action plan. This was received on 28 May. The Action Plan is currently under examination. The cabinet position will be shared with the Chamber through the usual line of the BNC sheet. I can say that I welcome the action plan, as far as we can make an initial assessment of it now. The same applies to the Commission's comprehensive approach to tackling trafficking in human beings. This is in line with the government's view that an effective approach to trafficking in human beings requires a multidisciplinary approach. It's in there, too. It is also in our response to the Commission's proposals of May. The first weighting is therefore positive but the more extensive appreciation is still to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u194	It's a good thing the cabinet is doing that appreciation, but what about the other action points about tackling that at the source? This concerns the UN mandate to deal with smugglers of human beings. Have agreements been made to examine the existing conventions with countries of origin, so that aid and support to those countries will be dependent on combating smuggling there and taking back and taking over from people who come from there?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u195	What I promise is that, within the framework of the BNC sheet, if we come up with the appreciation of the Human Trafficking Action Plan, I will report on the progress of the Security Council route. I do not think there is any new information on this at this stage, but then we will report on the state of play. Mr Omtzigt's second request will be taken into account. I'll get to the five-president report. It has been very brief, in the sense that we have taken note of it and that we are certainly going to talk about it again. Mr Omtzig's question as to whether we should speak to the Chamber before we discuss anything, is a positive answer, in the sense that we have already done so, because the Chamber knows our appreciation of the proposals. We discussed it last week. We'll work along that line. Mr Omtzigt also asked a question about a Brexit. He asked whether a timetable had been drawn up for a referendum and whether it could interfere with the Dutch Presidency. We know that this timetable is not yet very clear but that the country wants to hold a referendum by the end of 2017. That's not up to us. That's what the British are about. Nor has the British Government further clarified this. The referendum law has not yet been adopted in the United Kingdom. Mr Omtzigt also asks which question is before us, but we do not know it yet. TTIP has not been discussed at this European Council. Mrs Maij asked a question about the security strategy. In the European Council, we called for this strategy to be adopted quickly. We do understand the fact that this is an extremely complex process with a lot of stakeholders. We want to take that seriously too. It is therefore a good thing that this strategy is being discussed again this autumn. We will make an active contribution to the strategy, but that does not mean that Europe now has no foreign and security policy. Luckily not, because there's a lot going on right now. There are also a lot of missions. We are active in all kinds of ways, but this is an important recalibrate that is coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u196	I asked another question about the fact that Bavaria and Denmark are going to re-introduce border controls. I don't know if that's been discussed. I don't think so, but I'd like a comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u197	There are rules for this in the Union. There are strict conditions. The introduction of border controls, for example, can be done if there are very serious problems in the context of public policy. It seems to me that the increase in migratory flows is not sufficient reason to initiate such a procedure. Anyway, I'm not a lawyer and we're not going over it. That is what the European institutions are about. If I am asked what the position of the Dutch Government is, I say that we in Europe will always ask that everyone keeps to the agreements. For the Netherlands as an exporting country, the free market, and hence the absence of all kinds of internal borders, is an important factor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u198	But Denmark and Bavaria also have a free market. So that can't be a reason not to. I'd like us to do it here, too. What exactly is the Prime Minister's opinion? Does it fit into the regulations, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u199	That's not up to us. This is really a matter for the European institutions, but our assessment is that the increase in migratory flows is not sufficient reason to initiate such a procedure. That is our assessment of the European agreements. But once again, it is really up to the European institutions to make a statement on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u200	I'll take a look at the MPs. Is there a need for a second term? That's the case. I hope you will not cause me any difficulty in saying that I would like to suspend very briefly before we proceed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u201	Mr. Chairman. I note that the starting point is still to find a lasting and balanced solution with Greece. Also this afternoon it appeared that a third programme could be discussed, if I understood correctly. The Prime Minister himself has also indicated that macroeconomic conditions have deteriorated considerably in the meantime. This means that Greece will have to do more than the measures in the Sunday package. However, deteriorating economic conditions also mean that debt sustainability has deteriorated. Precisely this debt sustainability is a prerequisite for a new programme of the ESM. In the case of questions on debt relief, the Prime Minister always refers to the November 2012 agreements of the Eurogroup. I only once grabbed them. In that statement, full implementation of the programme is mentioned as a condition. As that programme expires today, it will be difficult to meet it today. However, I understand that the Prime Minister is nevertheless prepared to look at debt relief, if this is part of a new and balanced programme. Is that right? Finally. The migration agenda was discussed by the Prime Minister under the heading "Other'. For a moment it sounded optimistic: the Prime Minister said that if he was called, the Netherlands would commit the inclusion of the said 2.047 refugees that number had been calculated for the Netherlands, provided that other countries also deliver. In that last addition was the venom again. What if he gets a call now, and he doesn't know what other people are gonna do? Will the committee then be sent back into the woods at the end of July with texts on 'the volume buttons that have to be connected', like last time? Actually, I only have two questions. I would like two brief answers: I see a third package for Greece on the horizon, and if the Netherlands is asked to take in the 2.047 refugees, the Netherlands says yes. As far as I am concerned, these two short answers are sufficient for the second period.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u202	Madam President. The patient is seriously ill, the ailment has been going on for years, we keep using the same medicine and we're surprised it doesn't work. I think it's time to throw it out on the other side and use another means. However, the Prime Minister and the Christian Union Group disagree on this. I have the impression that we might be standing here in the foreseeable future to talk about Greece again. The question is whether the time has come to talk about another medicine. In addition, we talked about migration. The Prime Minister says he's optimistic about this. However, solidarity is under pressure and the pressure on the southern border is very high. It is then important for the Netherlands to assume its responsibility. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, contrary to the Commission's proposal, the European Council decided to relocate 40,000 refugees from Italy and Greece to other Member States on a voluntary basis;]] [[Whereas there is a risk that solidarity between Member States will be put under pressure when one or more Member States choose not to relocate any or few refugees;]] [[calls on the Government to make a strong effort to ensure full respect for mutual solidarity and to take the lead, together with Greece, Italy and other benevolent Member States, in a coordinated approach to achieve the relocation of the 40,000 refugees in the short term,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Segers, Mr Voordewind, Mr Pechtold, Mr Klaver and Mr Merkies.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-998]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u203	Mr. Chairman. I just read on the NOS site that, as we speak, there is talk with the Greeks on the phone about their new proposal. What do the Greeks want? They want a third support package from the ESM, with a duration of two years. A third support programme has clearly been fired by the VVD, but the door is open to this Prime Minister. What else do the Greeks want? They want a waiver of the debts. Who doesn't want that? Oh, and Tsipras wants an advance so he can pay the IMF tonight. That's what I call guts. It's guts of the Greeks, because why would you even make phone calls for such a hopeless plan? Apparently there are too soft healers in Europe who are afraid to drop Greece. That's their honor too much. The euro is sacred and irreversible to them and it will not happen that a country falls out of the euro. We're gonna pay more on the left or right. The Greeks know that damn well, so they keep negotiating until the hole. In the light of the experience with Greece, it is incredible that more billions are being transferred to Greece. But it's still gonna happen. Even a donkey does not hit the same stone three times, but the urophils in Brussels do. I'll see what comes out. We'll probably have another debate tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u204	Mr. Chairman. Given the time, my second term is only about asylum seekers. As always, the urophils aren't gonna let it go. Now Mr Juncker wants to come up again with a proposal to make the spread of asylum seekers mandatory and automatic. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the President of the European Commission has indicated that he will present a new proposal in the autumn to make the distribution of asylum seekers mandatory and automatic, i.e. without further approval by the Member States;]] [[calls on the government to strongly distance itself from this,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bontes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-999]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u205	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I am disappointed that the Minister of Finance is not here. I understand why that is so, but I would have liked to have talked about his role as President of the Eurogroup. I understand Mr Omtzig's questions about the consequences for the banks very well, as well as his question about how the ESM is being handled. We all need to discuss these matters. What disappoints me from the Prime Minister is that he's actually closing the door. It has been said that the door is open, but he slammed the door very hard. He's actually saying there are no options. So my question is still what we're talking about tonight. What are we talking about? The Prime Minister says that a new package is yet another set of demands. But then you're sure you're not gonna get out at all. I have seen a blame game, while one should rather do self-reflection. We must look at why the policies of recent years have failed. What got the country into trouble? That's what I miss about the Prime Minister. Furthermore, I think that the way he deals with the referendum is simply scandalous. He says, "I'm not doing anything with it." There's going to be a referendum. A people is going to speak out. I think you should respect that people's statement and do something about it. You have to draw a conclusion from that. You shouldn't say, "I'm putting that statement next to me."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u206	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for the answers to the questions asked. A question from me hasn't been answered yet. It was about the Balkans and the risks there. That's what the Prime Minister was going to come back to. I should like to return to the debate I had with the Prime Minister on debt relief or debt restructuring. The Prime Minister constantly refers to 2012. The question is, when is there a problem? Who finds that there is a problem and who finds that you should proceed to further debt restructuring and debt relief? I say that the Greeks indicate that they need this and that this may also be necessary in a political sense in order to reach agreement. I would ask the Prime Minister not only to refer to 2012 and to the space that was apparently available at the time, but also to indicate that we are prepared to do so and whether this can be part of a new package. I think that would be an important step. We should take that step because it is necessary and because we should avoid that clash. My name is under the motion tabled by the Christian Union on the reception of refugees and the reconciliation of them. It is too cynical to say that the Netherlands is willing to take in refugees, but other countries must do the same. Ultimately, it is about what responsibility we take ourselves, regardless of what other countries do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u207	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Prime Minister for the answers. No debt write-off, no third package. I would like to hear from the Minister of Finance what happens to the banks if they go bankrupt. Then how are they settled? Are they system banks? I can imagine that's not happening right now. It keeps shooting at a target. The Prime Minister says we've had the appreciation of the Five Presidents' Report. That appreciation said that further study is needed. If we think that's an appreciation, we're really wrong. Since my motion was rejected last time, I don't think that's a good idea. I have three more things that I think are very important at the moment. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the IMF as the only non-European institution is part of the troika;]] [[Whereas this independent status of the IMF is important for the implementation of commitments made;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the IMF remains involved as an independent and qualified body in further aid to Greece,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1000]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u208	The second motion concerns the interpretation of the referendum. It really needs to be clear in advance, especially when there are voting opinions from all sides in Europe. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Greek Government decided unilaterally to hold a referendum on 5 July;]] [[noting that it is not clear what consequences a no vote and a yes vote have;]] [[calls on the government to ensure that it is absolutely clear to the Greek and European people by Friday what action is being taken on every possible outcome of the referendum and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1001]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u209	The motion states "a no vote and a yes vote." Strangely enough, this is also in that order on the ballot. In response to my comment on the Five Presidents' Report, I submit the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Five Presidents' Report contains many far-reaching proposals;]] [[calls on the Government not to adopt positions on those medium- and long-term proposals before consulting the Chamber;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that democracy, democratic legitimacy, transparency and effective control by the European Court of Auditors are rewritten into a new chapter,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1002]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u210	I give the floor to the Prime Minister for his second-term response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u211	Mr. Chairman. We have a few motions to deal with. I can also include Mr Pechtold's question. Mr Klaver asked a question about debt relief. That's gonna be a bit of a repeat of moves. I think that we have discussed this at length in the first period. Maybe we don't quite agree on that. If someone thinks something is important, but can't justify it with figures, then I don't think that's enough reason to say anything. After all, this is about money. If you ease the debt by extending deadlines or lowering interest rates, purely because a country that likes its own internal psychology, when it's not necessary, then I think you're throwing away money. We really shouldn't. That's not because I'm standing here like a bean counter, but because I think it should be fair to explain when we put taxpayers' money into keeping the eurozone solid. We shouldn't just do that because a country says: do it now; we like it so much.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u212	The Prime Minister is very skilled in concluding agreements. That's what he's doing here. Parties may sometimes ask him to realize something he thinks is necessary? Anyway, for that party that is necessary and then you agree. Isn't that exactly the same thing that's happening in Europe right now? If that's obviously important to the Greeks now and if that's how you can get a deal done, then you can still pay that small price to get together?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u213	That would mean this. For example, we have sometimes decided in conversations with the Christian Union to keep a barracks open. In this case, the Christian Union would not have asked to keep the barracks open, but to build another one in the same place. That's what we're talking about. Maybe I didn't see the need for that specific request from the Christian Union at the time, but we did in the context of the deal we made in October 2013. I admit that. That's how it works. "We want exactly the same barracks ten meters away again." That is actually what the Greeks are asking if there would be no need to extend the debt and lower interest rates. If that were the case, in that scenario, our assessment is that it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u214	That's a weird equation. It's about the fall deal. Keeping a barracks open, with all due respect, was not necessary to put public finances in order. That was the goal the Prime Minister had set himself for. Eventually he agreed, because it was necessary for the overall picture. I understand. That's how it works. That's really good. I really want to praise the Prime Minister for that. However, I do not understand why he would not want to do so towards the Greeks. If the Greeks indicate that their barracks are debt relief, even if the Prime Minister doesn't think it's necessary at all, if that's the key to getting together, then I don't understand why the Prime Minister keeps pushing it away. I think that's shortsighted.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u215	Something is necessary or not. You can then disagree about that barracks. You can disagree politically on something, but do something anyway, because it helps to get a party on board to make a bigger deal. I agree entirely with Mr Klaver, but in the end there has to be an argument in substance, which you may not be politically in favour of at the time, which makes you do it. Suppose at any time there is no substantive reason. We're not sure that's true. We suspect that based on our current assessments. If the extension of repayment periods and the reduction of interest rates are discussed at any time and if the calculations at that time conclude that it is simply not necessary, because the Greeks are well within the margins of what is acceptable in relation to debt costs relative to national income, then why do you do it? You can't explain that to the taxpayer, can you? You have to be willing to look at it, but only if it's a real point. We said that in November 2012. I'll get on the motions. I'll start with the motion in part No. 998. I repeat exactly what the cabinet's position is. The cabinet believes that quotas should be adjusted. In fact, we do not agree with that number. The problem is that these quotas are currently off the table; it is now a voluntary system. However, we say to the Commission and to everyone: as soon as these quotas come back into the picture, we have wishes for them. That they come into view is quite possible when you talk about more permanent arrangements, so is my expectation. That's point one. Then the question is: how do you deal with the number in the table? Then the Dutch Government says: although the number is higher than should be based on the quota, we are still taking that figure of 2.047, also because we are seeking maximum European consensus on this temporary emergency mechanism and it also helps us in the discussion on the quota. That's two. Three: what are we going to say to Brussels? We are going to say to Brussels that we are prepared to actually realize this 2.047, but that we reserve the right to look at the sum of what is next. Then we look at what the other countries have done and ask the question whether this will amount to 40,000 in total and so on. The process is also clear. The Luxembourg Presidency takes stock of what each country will do. At the end of July there will be a state of play. On many points, this motion goes through. The motion doesn't really go into the deal. It is about taking the lead with a number of countries and so on, while the position of the Dutch Government is right: we want to show solidarity, but then Europe as a whole must stand for it. We also want to make that visible. In order to facilitate this as much as possible, the Dutch Government would like to say that we are doing this 2.047, which is more than we would like on the basis of the quota, and we do have our wishes with regard to that quota and we highlight them. Et cetera, et cetera. At the end, we'll see what's going on. Given that position, I can't help but dissuade this motion. Both procedurally and in substance, it is contrary to the position of the Dutch Government. I come to Mr Bontes' motion on item No. 999. The proposal is not there yet, so I advise against this motion. I come to Mr Omtzigt's motion for a resolution. 1,000. The IMF has always been involved. That's what the ESM Treaty says. The IMF is also involved in the bankruptcy and the Club of Paris. So the motion is really superfluous. That's why I'm telling her off. I'll come to the motion in part No. 1001. Again, that referendum is really up to the Greeks. I've explained that before. I really do not think that we should interfere with the internal affairs of Greece. For us, what is relevant is what the appointed, elected directors do, and they can use the referendum to do so. But why should the Dutch Government have an opinion on a yes or no vote? I think what the Greek Government is doing is relevant. That he is inspired by a yes or no vote is to her. I think we are interfering too much with the internal affairs of another country. On one point, of course, the referendum has been relevant: last Friday, when the referendum was issued, it had to be said that the negotiations had been concluded by the Greeks, which ended today's current aid programme. The motion in part No. 1002 is about the Five Presidents' Report. The Chamber has seen the proposals. The Dutch Government has also responded to this. Last week we discussed this in some detail. I propose that we involve all of this in discussions in Europe about the shorter term and the longer term. However, I consider this motion to be completely untimely. So now is not the time to start drilling in at such a point. I'm deceiving the motion in part No. So 1002. However, I can very well imagine that this theme is coming back to me. I would consider that very relevant if we were to discuss a further follow-up to the Five Presidents' Report. At the moment, the motion is so zooming in on one aspect that I do not think it is balanced. I therefore advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u216	In view of the administration here, there was a bit of confusion as to whether you had the motion in part No. 1001 had appreciated. I believe that you would have advised against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u217	Yeah, that's right. I do advise her, because we do not want to express an opinion on the referendum.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-10.u218	The vote on the motions for resolutions will take place on Thursday. I shall suspend the sitting until, as you have seen on schedule, 8.30 p.m. The Minister of Finance has informed us that he is not available before. You all understand why.
