ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-3.u1	Mr. Chairman. Rescue helicopters are already there to save lives, in weather and wind, day and night. This is an exceptional task with exceptional responsibilities and requires exceptional material. So you don't want to be in first grade for a dime. That's what I think. The Minister probably feels the same way, at least you would think so. What does it prove in practice? The invitation to tender for the rescue helicopters for the Coast Guard is, on the contrary, nibble on quality. I was stunned when I read in the newspaper on Saturday that the rescue helicopters that are now being used do not meet the basic requirements. They are not allowed to fly in humid freezing weather, the seat brancard is missing and is not there for a year and a half, the devices do not have an infrared camera to search for drownings, for the three helicopters there is only one ambulance nurse on standby and one of the three helicopters cannot hang still in the air. If people's lives are to be saved, the equipment must be in good shape. Instead, the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Environment has launched a tender without any knowledge and despite several signals that the budget was far too low for the demands that were made. It should be made clear by now that in the case of tenders, you do not always want to be in front of a dime in the first place. How is this possible? Has this minister learned nothing from the invitation to tender of the Fyra and the NH90, which was not for nothing called the flying Fyra? I'd like to get a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. The questions contain all kinds of implicit assumptions that I would like to refute. It is important to know that this is a temporary situation, pending the arrival of the NH90 helicopters. It is also important to know that in the last 30 years the SAR operations have been successfully handled by the Defense Department, with the existing helicopters. In the meantime, because the new helicopters are not yet delivered, we have hired other helicopters that are better than the helicopters that have flown over the last 30 years. So they're better equipped than before. They can also house more people than before. Did we just sit at the lowest price? No, absolutely not. We do the procurement on the basis of safety. The international rules prescribe exactly what needs to be met. We have made these demands, and then we have looked at who offers the lowest price of those who meet those requirements. Price is therefore not the award criterion. Safety criteria are the award criterion. Then you choose the one with the best offer. Mrs Hachchi says that the newspaper says that the helicopter does not meet the technical and operational requirements. He does meet all the technical, operational and human requirements, with one exception, namely the requirement of the seat-brancard. It has not yet been realized due to longer delivery times, but it has been ordered immediately by the company that has to deliver it. In other words, the current helicopters are better than the helicopters that have been flying so far. We'll be waiting for the NH90 in five years. The helicopters also meet the technical safety requirements.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-3.u3	So far, Defence has fulfilled that task and it was decided at the end of 2012 to seek a temporary solution because the NH90, the replacement of the helicopter that was in service at the time, had been delayed. It seems to me that the Minister agrees with me that there is also a temporary situation that all requirements must be met and that our rescue helicopters must be equipped to carry out that task. If I listen carefully to the Minister today, she says that the helicopters meet the basic requirements which, at least in the media, show that these helicopters do not comply with them. Between the Minister's view and the list I have seen, there is a difference of night and day. I also recognise in the attitude of this Minister a number of statements that I have heard from the media. Perhaps the Minister says it's bullshit, but I'd like to quote them for her. I also recognise the Minister's attitude in the statements of the Rijkswaterstaat, for which this Minister is responsible. The first quote: "There are therefore a few things that are not met." About the freezing weather: "That is not in accordance with the procurement requirements, no, but the question is, of course, how often this happens." About the infrared camera, which I mentioned earlier: "We consulted our airwatcher for this, but he said that a built-in infrared camera is of less importance during the Search and Rescue." Another quote, which may lead to a light on this minister: "They are not show stoppers. With every bridge, road or tunnel we contract, something is going on. The question we then ask ourselves is: is the functionality at stake? That's what we've been asking ourselves here, and our conclusion was: the execution of the Search and Rescue will be no less." Each of them quotes by Rijkswaterstaat that respond to the criticism of the basic requirements that are not met. Can the Minister come back to her earlier reply, in which she says: there is no problem at all, all the requirements have been met? Do I recognize the trivialistic attitude of this minister, who is similar to the statements of the Rijkswaterstaat, which I read earlier in the newspaper?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-3.u4	At first I thought Mrs. Hachchi was going to quote me, but she was going to quote Rijkswaterstaat. I repeat what I have just said, namely that helicopters meet all technical, operational and human requirements, with the exception of the seat-bran card. Let me give you an example. The discussion in the newspaper is about whether the helicopters can fly completely anti-icing. That's not necessary for rescue operations. At first thought is to ask, because this will be in the NH90 helicopters in the future. For military operations, however, you need to be able to do more than for Coast Guard operations. For the Coast Guard rescue operations, a limited-icing condition is sufficient. These choppers are gonna do the right thing. I can give you all the technical details I have here. For the temporary situation we are dealing with, we have looked at the question of what a SAR operation should meet and what the international requirements are. That's what they all meet. The same applies to the infrared construction. An image is now being sketched as if we had bought some miserable helicopters for a bargain. That is not the case at all. They're better than the last one and they can do more than the last one. The next version will be even better. He'll be here in five years. However, with these, we are able to carry out rescue operations very well. We've done 42 of them since 1 July 2015. No mention has been made at all of the problems or of the fact that there could not be flown under certain weather conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-3.u5	If the minister says they're better helicopters than the last one, that doesn't mean everything. The point is that we have rescue helicopters that meet all the requirements. For the second time, I hear the Minister underline that all the basic requirements set out in the tender are met. It's important to hear that. Can the Minister inform the Chamber by letter and respond to all the requirements of those three helicopters? I would like to conclude by saying that the Minister did not comment on the quotations of the Rijkswaterstaat.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-3.u6	To answer the last question: you read quotes and then say that as Minister of Laconics, hypothermia or something like that I don't know exactly what the word is anymore. Bagatellisating, I hear you say. That is certainly not the case. I think the Coast Guard's rescue operations are extremely important. That is why we, as the Ministry of Defence, have also jumped in at a time when helicopters could not be delivered to the coastguard. It's a competitive market, so I understand that there are occasional signs that others think they could have had even more beautiful material. We have looked at the international requirements: what do you have to meet? You're referring to what was originally in the tender. I said that we initially included the NH90 requirements in the package. Subsequently, RWS, Defence and other parties in the market discussed that full anti-icing is not necessary and that this is an unrealistic extra requirement, a much more expensive requirement than necessary. The limited-icing conditions meet. In doing so, we meet the technical, operational and human requirements of the contract, except for the seat brancard.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-3.u7	Thank you for your answers and also thank you for coming to the Chamber.
