ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u1	I would like to welcome all those present in the Chamber, the people in the public gallery, the people who are following this debate in a different way, and in particular the Secretary of State for Health, Welfare and Sport. I thank the Secretary of State for accepting our invitation. I give the floor to Mrs Keijzer on a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We received the pile of pieces I'm holding today at 1:30 yesterday. I've been asking for part of these pieces since March 3. Last night we also received an e-mail, which made it a sort of search image: what have we had and what haven't we had? I really want to mark here that it can't be done like this. You can't deal with the Chamber like that. This makes it a flawed debate for the CDA. So it can never be a debate in which discharge is given on this pile of documents.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u3	We received 77 pieces. On 4 files there is no date, but I have determined from 61 pieces that they are from before this month. So they could easily have been sent on Friday. If that is not possible, it shows that there is not only a chaotic situation at the Social Insurance Bank, but perhaps also at the Ministry.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u4	These points are noted in the Acts. We shall now begin the debate. Before the debate, I would like to make an agreement on the number of interruptions. I would suggest that, in the first term of the Chamber, a maximum of three interruptions be made between themselves, consisting of a question and a possible follow-up question. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Keijzer, who has requested this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u5	Mr. Chairman. Here we are again. As early as the beginning of February, I requested the ICT documents, asked questions and requested documents again. On April 22, there was an article in the AD that showed that the Secretary of State was warned. The preliminary reports, which were thrown into the Chamber yesterday as a sort of cluster bomb, show that too. The Secretary of State understands that I haven't been able to read all those documents. So it might well be that after today there will be a list of written questions. Yesterday there was a disturbing letter in the NRC. "Five past twelve," it was written to Zorginstituut Nederland, the former CVZ. How could it be different? However, the Secretary of State did not see any reason to involve the Chamber in all concerns. No one would suffer from this; he said that at the end of last year. How bad are the benefits for the budget holders, their caregivers and small health care institutions, who say that they should gradually close the doors. We are still receiving e-mails of concern. "Pgb discouragement policy," it is called by some. Why didn't the Secretary of State involve the Chamber in all those red smileys and warnings? By the way, was that or wasn't that a "no go" moment? On 24 November last year, the Secretary of State replied to my questions: no, it is not there, because we have relapse scenarios. Three days later, an administrative consultation takes place in which a "go" has apparently been given. What is it now? How can the Secretary of State decide on a "go" while the warnings in the drawing rights steering group of the Platform IZO were not out of date? The State Secretary conducts research after investigation, sends stand-of-business letter after stand-of-business letter and emergency scenario after emergency scenario to the Chamber. Today we are talking about the underlying questions. Was the Secretary of State warned? Is the ICT system now used by the Social Insurance Bank suitable for all budget holders with all the different care questions? We ask ourselves that. In the letter from the SVB which the Secretary of State sent to the Chamber last week, and about which he said it was not at all such a disturbing letter, we find worrying matters. On 26 June last year there were issues with risks and they had to be resolved before 9 July. For example, the payment period of four weeks versus one month, the electronic exchange of data and the automated processing of the award decisions. On 22 July, the VNG will send a letter stating that it has not been settled. In the meantime, we know that the recovery plan must not be settled by 1 January. Did the Secretary of State know that? Part of it still needs to be resolved; I am referring now to the processing of all the award notices before 15 April. Is that what happened now? Furthermore, there was the customer friendliness of the My PCI portal: 22 March. Is it working now? Can transport costs finally be declared in the system? Last week I received an e-mail stating that this is not the case. And more importantly for the future, is the new system going to fly? The Ministry concludes that the counter-expertise carried out leads to the conclusion that the system can handle it. The report states that no documents or visualisations have been found by M&I, the agency that conducted this investigation, that adequately reflect the current situation. How can VWS find that this is going to work? Another quote: "Functional issues [...] and process-oriented questions [...] are outside the scope of our research." Then how is it possible that you conclude it's gonna work? A simple question: what are the costs associated with strengthening the ICT system? Does the Secretary of State guarantee that it will remain so? Is the system gonna work? There will be an anchor moment this summer. Finally, there is the reason for the right to draw: the fight against fraud. In a report on the target architecture, which I found on the Internet because it wasn't part of the documents, I read that drawing rights through the Social Insurance Bank are going to help with the fight against fraud. This must be done at local authorities and health offices. Why wasn't this piece part of the cluster bomb we received yesterday? I'm rounding up. This is a flawed debate. Having this debate properly requires openness from the Secretary of State. Last week I said that having the documents available in time is conditional on having a good debate. But it's no different now. We're standing here the way we are. I have just said that this debate, however it goes on, can never be a debate on the pieces that are on my table in the Chamber. For the moment, I await the answers of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u6	I know Mrs Keijzer from the CDA as a very critical Member of Parliament, especially in this dossier. If you look back, you can see that she is the first to call the bell if the introduction of the drawing right is not going well. I ask her how she assesses the behaviour of this Secretary of State with regard to information to the Chamber. Are we not dealing with contempt for parliament?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u7	I've just been pretty clear about that. I asked the chairman to discuss this with the cabinet properly. I was also the one who said last week: let us not rush together and let us plan this debate if we have had the documents on time and have been able to read well. Well, today we are standing here. The pieces are there. I don't think the way the Secretary of State did this is a good way to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u8	We share that "not a good way." We can also call this different; I will call it 'parliamentary contempt' later. But does Mrs Keijzer not think that this non-good way of doing is not a sign of this dossier and of the way in which the Secretary of State deals with, first of all, the introduction of the right of trekking, thus pressing on the accelerator while there were so many warnings and, secondly, the way in which we are being included in the process, how everything is going, what information do we get and not? What does the CDA group say about the Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u9	You have been able to listen to these questions in my speech. I would very much like to know from the Secretary of State if he knew all this and why he did not take the Chamber in this decision. There was a letter in the budget saying something about the introduction of the right to draw. But until the beginning of this year everything actually had the same tone of: yes, there are some problems, but everything will be fine. That is why we are holding this debate today. I do not think that the final conclusion can be drawn today, even if only because there is another report from the Court of Auditors on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u10	Mr. Chairman. "The introduction of the pgb right of draw did not go well." That's the understatement of the week. It's from the letter we received yesterday from the Secretary of State. The SP Group is deeply ashamed of what we are finding out more and more about the warnings that the Secretary of State has received and which he has put aside. He marginalizes all those individual warnings. But to sum up, what you should of course do when you make policies that are about the income of more than 200,000 people is, in the opinion of the SP Group, a scandalous situation. My question is: what has the Secretary of State done with the message that the Dutch Health Institute gave to the Ministry on 4 August, that the pgb-holder will be the child of the account if it is introduced in this way? Last week, in oral Question Time, the Secretary of State said that red and green smileys were being used. For people without a salary, that is a tough lay, but it is an even harder lay to see how the smileys in the progress report of September 2014 from green and orange to red colors in the progress report of October 2014. This progress report has been the basis for pushing the accelerator. My question is still: why? What political prestige was behind this? How often has postponement been considered and what arguments have been decided not to go into this? We're getting documents sent late. I told you, yesterday we got 77 pieces, less than 24 hours before the debate. 41 of them are from last year. I call it parliamentary contempt, but also parliamentary underestimation: it allows documents to be sent in the hope that we cannot read everything. Eventually, however, we read everything and eventually we will be able to judge everything. However, let me go through the audit on payments. That is what the Secretary of State uses in his letter. He says that a sample shows that 94% is paid on time, within 10 days. This is a sample of 552 declarations, but what else does this audit say? On page 7 it says that the Social Insurance Bank has no insight into the lead time of claims, from receipt to payment. And on page 10 it is concluded: "This means that the conclusions are scientifically substantiated in a sufficient way "not guaranteed' for an analysis of the lead times. Due to the design of the systems, the implementation of a reliable data analysis for the Audit Service was not possible." And yet the Secretary of State dares to use this sample in his letter stating that the payment for 94% is in order. Would it not be appropriate for the Secretary of State to take a more humble stance on this matter? And then I have something to say about the report. On page 3 it says that the Social Insurance Bank has insufficient capacity to process the documents received. It also states that 39% of the scanned invoices have a date that is two weeks earlier. This audit does not say that it is due to the budget holder, who sent it too late. The Secretary of State says so, however. Then you've got guts. You've got a lot of nerve saying that the budget holders are late sending their invoices. Who knows? Maybe it was the mail delivery. We can't blame third parties either. Let's just take the mail bags to the Social Insurance Bank. Could the mail items have been there for more than two weeks, waiting for them to get out of the envelope and get scanned? It may be parliamentary contempt, but the use of these figures can also be parliamentary deception. If I may, Mr President, I would like to make two more points. Work retardation is increasing chronically. It goes from 25,000 in September to 33 000 in October and 40,000 now. Are you sure you're okay as the Secretary of State suggests? We have received many pieces, but we have not received many pieces, such as the section on the additional costs of the operation and the recovery plan. I believe that the Secretary of State should send everything to the Chamber and not when he can make a press release to blame the budget holder, but just when he has received documents.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u11	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u12	We've seen in February's progress report...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u13	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u14	...that these additional costs are in the VWS Department.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u15	Mr. Chairman. On 20 November last year, the Social Insurance Bank wrote to the State Secretary: "[...] even the most simple variant is now coming into play. feasibility of 1/ 1." The Secretary of State announced relapse scenarios and continued. We have seen the result in recent months. The relapse scenarios have entered into force, but thousands of pgb-holders and caregivers are still in great uncertainty as to whether they still receive care and can pay the rent. The Secretary of State puts the blame to a large extent on the pgb-holders. Today's debate for my group is not so much about payouts to healthcare providers. With my motion 15 May, the Secretary of State has been given the deadline to get the payments in order. He's got a road trip with results agreements and he's confident it's gonna work. But how are we supposed to describe these six agreements of results? Does he say, for example, that on 15 May 99% of the correctly received declarations for April were processed within ten working days? Will the SVB proactively inform all budget holders if declarations cannot be paid out for any reason? What about the recovery of wrong payments? Will the Secretary of State, also heard Mrs Leijten of the SP, be prepared to take an independent test by, for example, having the General Court carry out the SVB audit? On 3 March, Mr Keijzer asked for the progress reports. Yesterday, 28 April, almost two months later, the Chamber received the requested information. We have seen the pile of paper and the Secretary of State could not but finally send it to the Chamber because he has been overtaken over the past few weeks by new relevant reports that the Chamber had to take note of through the media. Moreover, the extended timeline I asked for showing at what point in time who made the decision was not included. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that this could and should have been done earlier in the context of transparency? If you read all the progress reports consecutively, you can actually see how the tone changes. Let me get this straight. July 2014: a festive kick-off. August 2014: substantive uncertainties on a number of topics. September 2014: we're behind schedule, consultation needed. October 2014: we are running behind the facts, feasibility as of 1 January risky. November 2014: We need to reset all sails, some relapse scenarios now effective. You ask yourself whether no one has said at any time: boys, it is not wise to let 1 January continue. That is what I am asking the Secretary of State. Did he look through pink glasses and he didn't see the red smileys and just look at the green ones? After 1 September 2014, he was advised orally or in writing not to allow its introduction to take place on 1 January and, if so, why did he ignore it? Or has he always been told that it could eventually be justified and, if so, does the Secretary of State still believe that the introduction was justified as of 1 January? Last autumn D66 regularly asked if the SVB could handle it all. She wasn't the only one who asked. The Secretary of State always reassured us at that time. If the Secretary of State looks back now, does he think it's right? Was he really reassured or did he leave himself and the Chamber with courage? We are getting more and more reports from pgb holders who are told by their health insurance provider that they are no longer eligible for a pgb, while the pgb is also laid down in the Health Insurance Act and hopefully will soon be legally anchored. I've asked you several times when that last happens. What does the Secretary of State say to the pgb holders who get zero on their health insurance company?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u16	Mr. Chairman. As far as my group is concerned, this Secretary of State must be truly embarrassed, not only for the ridiculously late transmission of 50 cm of items that no one here has been able to read properly before the debate, but also for the fact that he is again presenting a bummer in which he accuses the budget holders of the late submission of the declarations. What are the excuses of this Secretary of State if he does exactly the same thing again a few weeks later, namely to move the debt and lay it down with the budget holders instead of admitting that he underestimated the whole process? Warnings have been issued from all angles and holes, but the Secretary of State turned out to be blind and deaf to this. The budget holders and the caregivers are now the victims of this. The right of draw was and would be introduced on 1 January irrespective of the consequences. The system came for the people. How does the Secretary of State find that the progress reports did not give any reason to postpone the introduction as of 1 January 2015? Was that based on the July 2014 report that enthusiastically wrote about the festive meeting at VWS after all the traffic lights were turned green? The Secretary of State cannot have reached his conclusion on the basis of the reports from October to December, since all three of them do give cause for delay. There are several scenarios, risks and bottlenecks in the chain. Several issues, including ICT functionalities and the introduction of healthcare agreements, will be postponed to January, February after the introduction. The care agreements are running from 25,000 to 40,000. There is therefore already a delay at the beginning and all this with mention of the relapse scenarios, which had already been developed in late summer. Why did this happen if there was no cause for concern? I don't understand. Now we are in the middle of it and the end is far from in sight. This too was warned. The continuity plan Plateau 1 of November 2014 states that a stacking of fall-out scenarios seriously jeopardises its viability and therefore only a fall-back scenario is possible: postponing the drawing rights. I have already asked for this in four debates and I have been told during those four debates that this is not possible. This is on paper. But yes, it can be seen as a failure of the draw right, so it is not done. The same plan also states: good communication and then a gradual influx to relieve people and systems. I could have written it myself. Then why is this Secretary of State persisting? Also the recent counterexpertise shows that the pgb-landscape is not ready for the future and that the proposed improvements cannot be assessed. The improvement plan and the corresponding budget should be reviewed. It's April, and it still has to be. It may not be a technical ICT problem; however, there is a chain problem that is the result of the great haste with which the pgb landscape has been developed. Research agency M&I even indicates that the fact that the system is running at all is an enormous achievement. I would like to receive a response from the Secretary of State. All this and the already exorbitant extra cost of EUR 6 million in two months, my group believes that it has been enough. The Wmo, the Wlz and the Youth Act have already been jacked through this Chamber. The right to draw was the same fate with all the consequences. Enough is enough. The Secretary of State must therefore stop this experiment. He needs to get back to the drawing board before people really lose their care, before the caregivers throw the towel in the ring and before the whole pgb dies silently.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u17	Mr. Chairman. A little by little we get the facts about the problem of the payment of personal budgets by the Social Insurance Bank above the table. I could fill my entire speaking time with the most poignant stories of people whose payout is still not going well, but that is what we are discussing on 20 May. The question before us today is mainly a political question. Shouldn't the Secretary of State have decided, on the basis of all the information he had at his disposal at the time, not to carry out the operation's right of draw in this way? Shouldn't he have said "January 1st 2015 isn't working; we're postponing it"? Has he provided the Chamber with the correct information? Are we sure he will in the future? The Chamber now finally has an insight into many reports, which together constitute a major official cry for help. It seems that the Secretary of State had to adjust sail after sail in the final phase in order to allow the transition to pass. The Secretary of State dismisses every warning as follows: yes, there were great concerns, but we took the warning to heart, followed the recommendations and took action. Of course, there is not a report somewhere that says literally and clearly: the risks are too great, Secretary of State, just stop. That is the conclusion that the Secretary of State himself should have drawn. On the basis of all existing reports full of warnings on ICT problems and time constraints, he should have made the analysis himself that moving forward at the same rate was no longer justified. Should we not conclude, now that it has been established what problems there are with the payout, that the risks described and predicted problems do indeed arise? Does the Secretary of State agree with me that he should never have allowed the introduction of the drawing right to continue on 1 January 2015 in this way? Can he confirm that he misjudged the information he had at his disposal? Has he ever considered postponing the transition? If not, why not? My second point concerns the provision of information to the Chamber. I would have liked to have the information that is now before me at the time. I think that I, and many of my colleagues in the Chamber, would have spoken even more louder than that and saved the Secretary of State from this mistake. How come the Chamber didn't have this information? I do not think it is right that the Chamber should seek and examine all communication between the Ministry and any other body in advance in order to prevent a Secretary of State from galloping. If there are doubts about the feasibility of such an important dossier, with such great consequences for very vulnerable people, the Chamber should be able to assume that the ruler has the political sensitivity to inform the Chamber so that the Chamber can make its own judgement: does it think that the additional measures taken by the Secretary of State are sufficient, does it still have confidence in the successful outcome and does it wish to continue with the timetable set? The transfer is a dossier that many Members of Parliament have expressed their concern about. The Secretary of State kept repeating that everything would be okay. He's never shown anything of internal unrest. Why not? Doesn't the Secretary of State think he should share such developments with the Chamber? Does he think that the Chamber can carry out its controlling task properly with the information it has received from the Secretary of State? I come to my third point. The Secretary of State takes a full week to send documents from 2013 to the Chamber, less than 24 hours before the debate. A requested letter from the SVB with a little less incriminating information could be sent to the Secretary of State by route. That is insufferable, especially for a Secretary of State who is hard on this file to forfeit all his credit with the Chamber. It seems that we will not get the documents sent until they appear in the media. How seriously does the Secretary of State actually take the Chamber? This process does not create confidence. I therefore ask the Secretary of State if he can promise that he will now proactively share with her all the documents relevant to the Chamber. It is all the more worrying that yesterday the Secretary of State performed to give pgb-holders a sweep out of the pan. That's just rude. I'm sorry, but I don't have another word for it. It is rude to all those people who sent their documents months ago and have still not received a response or insufficient response, and it is rude to the Chamber, who had to wait a full week for the Secretary of State to send two-year-old documents to the Chamber. I'm rounding up. The Secretary of State seems to be becoming increasingly uncertain about his case. Each debate will be an extra blow to the arm, while the problems are getting bigger and more fundamental. With retroactive effect, we can see that during our first debate on this matter in February he was only aware of the tip of the iceberg of the problems and that he was still far too bright at the time. In his last letter, the Secretary of State writes that it is his goal to reach the deadline of 15 May. A suspicious reader could read in it that he backs off. Can he now promise again that he will meet the deadline of May 15th? As far as GroenLinks is concerned, 15 May is the hour for this Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u18	Mr. Chairman. Yesterday I found more than 70 pieces in my mailbox: letters, partial reports, progress reports, provisional budgets, a continuity plan and a real march route. I'd be lying if I said I'd read it all; I just can't. So much paper, there has really been a lot of work to make the introduction of the drawing right work. But so much paper cannot hide that the introduction has become a mess. So much paper makes it clear that the Secretary of State has been well aware of the risks. He has, in his own words, acted at all these risks. Why didn't the Secretary of State share with the Chamber the concerns about the introduction of the right of draw? He wrote in his letter: the introduction of the right to draw did not go well. That's an understatement. Does the Secretary of State, looking back on the trial, think that he has done enough to make the introduction of the drawing right work? What was the time for the Secretary of State when he decided that introduction was feasible as of 1 January 2015? Has any delay been considered? Mr Dijkstra already referred to the reports sent to the Chamber, with quotes from the progress reports, culminating in the fallback scenarios in November. Why did they have to be developed at such a late hour? Can the Secretary of State explain again why he considered the introduction of the drawing right justified on 1 January? What gave him the confidence that things would work out? Has he given in to other people's pressure? Was it a leap in the deep? Did he make an error of assessment? That needs to be clarified today. The payouts are moving better step by step, but it is far from enough. When we talk about payment problems with 6% of the claims, as the Secretary of State's letter states, it affects 12,000 people. Of course it will happen that declarations are made too late, but it is not the fault of the budget holders that this chaos has arisen. I would very much like to see the Secretary of State confirm this point and that he renounces the suggestion made in his letter. As far as the Christian Union is concerned, the time for plastering and emergency dressing is really over. It is important that the problems are solved in a structural manner. The Court has stated that the payout problems must be resolved by 15 May. If the problems are solved, I'll ask the Secretary of State. There is also a recovery plan. Per Balance, the interest association of people with a pgb, makes recommendations for this. Is the Secretary of State taking over? I'd like to get a commitment. The Christian Union considers it important that the recovery plan is carried out precisely in accordance with deadlines. Does the Secretary of State therefore wish to inform the Chamber in detail if steps cannot be taken and if deadlines are not met? I'd like a commitment. Today, for the fifth time, we are holding the debate on the pgbs. Others referred to that as well. I understand very well that people's patience is gradually running out. Frankly, the Secretary of State does not make it easy for the Christian Union either. How many times do we have to stand here before the problems are solved? Many budget holders are completely dependent on the pgb for their care. My group believes that the Secretary of State should support the budget holders. All efforts must be made to ensure that the budget holder is given full control over the pgb and the care provided. Continuity of care and timely payment of care provided must be ensured. I want the Secretary of State to make it clear to the Chamber today that he has the full direction for that, so that the payments on 15 May are really in order. The SVB, municipalities, health offices, they all have to participate in order for the recovery plan to succeed. The chain directors will have to work with mandate and hands-on to get this done. As far as we are concerned, instead of ten fingers on the wrist, the Secretary of State may now put the fist on the table to get things in order, please, before 15 May.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u19	Mr. Chairman. The introduction of the drawing right for pgbs did not go well. We can draw that conclusion clearly. Thousands of aid workers have received their money far too late, sometimes months too late. The SVB also proved to be poorly accessible for pgb-holders. It is getting better thanks to a large number of emergency measures that have been taken, but it is still not going well enough. People have their hands in their hair. How could things have gone so wrong? I see a secretary of state working hard to solve the problems. I also see damaged pgb holders and aid workers who read in the newspaper that the current problems would have been warned. They get really pissed off. I get that. It is therefore a good thing that it is being debated now so that we know what is going on. Transparency is of the utmost importance for the PvdA. The right of draw in itself is not in question. The pgb holders, Per Balance and the entire Chamber support this. The introduction of the right of draw is a complex operation. Not only must the SVB be ready, also municipalities and healthcare offices must provide relevant information to make this work properly. So it's an operation with a lot of chain partners. The progress reports show that the SVB always finds that the introduction of the drawing right is feasible as of 1 January 2015. However, the progress reports state that the deadlines for a number of key actions are not being met. Recommendations have been made to resolve this. Those recommendations have also been followed up by actions. There has not been patiently watched or but a bit waited under the motto "we'll see." It's been sent in and there's been some interference. Even so, things didn't work out. Although the Social Insurance Bank has always stated that the introduction of the drawing right is feasible, the number of necessary actions still to be taken was quite considerable. Has the Secretary of State himself at any time considered postponing the date on which the right to draw was introduced? The introduction of the right of draw has been postponed twice before. What were his reasons for continuing the operation? A number of measures were implemented in October last year. That is what was done before the entry into force. Why wasn't it decided at the time to postpone the introduction? Was it possible at that time to postpone the introduction of the right of draw at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u20	Mr Van Dijk asks the same question that GroenLinks has just asked, namely whether the Secretary of State has considered postponing the introduction of the right of draw. I wonder what Mr Van Dijk himself thinks about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u21	It's a very complex operation. We have all shared that view in the Chamber. There were still many areas where action had to be taken, but at the same time the Social Insurance Bank said that 1 January was feasible. I find it difficult to judge that. I'm curious to see the Secretary of State's consideration of continuing the operation. So I asked him that question just like GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u22	We've gotten a whole bunch of pieces by now. There were a lot of alarm signals in there. Surely you could conclude that on the basis of all these signals, this decision should not have been made? I expect the Labour Party to take a clear stand on this too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u23	It is clear that it has gone hopelessly wrong. The progress reports said that much had to be done. The recommendations have also been followed up by actions. I find it difficult to judge now and say what should have happened at what time. I'm very curious about the Secretary of State's considerations. Why did he go through with the surgery after all?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u24	I hear Mr Van Dijk now. His input is fairly critical. May I take it that he distances himself from what his group chairman said this morning in the daily newspaper?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u25	In my opinion, the words of my group chairman in the daily newspaper were also quite critical. He said: I also see that the payout of the pgbs is not going well. So my group chairman's opening line and my opening line in this debate are like two drops of water.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u26	I'm not talking about the opening line. Mr Samsom is more or less blaming the Chamber because the Chamber wanted it so quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u27	What I note is that the Court wanted the right of draw to be introduced. I think that is correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u28	It is well known that there has been no political disagreement over the introduction of the right to draw, but it has never been required to do so on 1 January 2015. I have another question. You are asking exactly the same question that I have also asked: was there a time when it was considered not to introduce the right of draw? What arguments were put forward at the time and why was it introduced? Why did you push that accelerator? I have another question for the PvdA Group. This is the fifth debate. In four previous debates it was said that all the monthly wages would be paid. The payment of declarations went well in 99% of cases. It took between five and ten days for a declaration to be paid. Now we have received an audit report from the Social Insurance Bank itself. On 2 April, it concludes that there is no insight into the lead time of declarations and that there is actually too little capacity for the SVB to process the declarations properly. In what light, according to the PvdA Group, do the statements of the Secretary of State come to light?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u29	I believe that we have agreed that we want the basic payments to be in order as soon as possible. A motion was tabled by Mrs Dijkstra on this point. The Secretary of State then indicated in his letter that this was going to be investigated. These seem to me to be the moments when we are going to test to what extent it is true. I am the first to note with Mrs Leijten that it is a complex operation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u30	My observation is that we have been given figures and that promises have been made by the SVB which could not actually be made because the audit shows that the lead times cannot be determined at all. On the basis of a sample of 552 files you can say that 94% of the cases were paid within ten days, but the conclusion is that there is no insight into the lead times and the SVB lacks sufficient manpower to process declarations properly. Is it right of the Secretary of State that he failed to include that in his letter to us? Didn't the Secretary of State suggest it a little too rosy, just like in those commercials, by calling it 94%, but not to say that there is actually no insight into the lead times?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u31	Mrs Leijten is all asking rather technical questions, of which I say: let the Secretary of State answer this now. What exactly is the situation with the 94% and 99%? Please do not ask me at this time for an opinion on how this has been shaped in SVB's business processes. Let us await the answers of the Secretary of State on this point. In recent years, there have been pilots with the right to draw. The SVB, pgb'ers, Per Balance, care offices and municipalities have been involved. Those pilots actually showed a positive picture. So the draw right can just run well. The bizarre thing is that a number of people who participated in the pilots had no problem until January 1, 2015. Then the aid workers of those people suddenly lost their pay, while it had gone well all this time before. How can that be? The Chamber is on top of this file, because we want it to be okay. We also dive into the organisation of the SVB. During the previous AO, questions were asked about the adjusted budget of the SVB. Now the picture is that the information wasn't right. I ask the Secretary of State, how is that possible? Can the Secretary of State promise that the SVB's budget will come to the Chamber when it is finally adopted? Finally. You can see that much had to be done in order for the drawing right to enter into force properly. There were reports and recommendations. They have also been followed by actions, but they have gone wrong. Now, above all, we must ensure that the problems are resolved. The best service that the Secretary of State can now do to pgbs and aid workers is to make every effort to solve the problems with the right of trekking as quickly as possible. That is also the thrust of the letter from Per Balance and Elkin and I agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u32	This is, of course, partly a debate on how it could have come to this, a flawed debate, but well, it was scheduled for this morning. Partly, as far as the CDA is concerned, it is also a debate on the demand for the future. Is the PvdA's fraction convinced by that counter-expertise of M&I/Partners? Does it realise that no documents have been found to describe the current situation, that the demands made in 2014 are debatable and that the plan of the technical strengthening, which the State Secretary says "you see, we can go on with it," does not actually exist?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u33	That's a lot of pretty technical questions. In the end, I believe that aid workers should be paid and that pgbs should have a system that is in their service. I will eventually assess that system if it works or if it doesn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u34	Then you're done, you might say. Of course I share with the PvdA's group that the problems need to be solved, but if you have a counter-expertise on the existing system now, and if the system is robust enough to allow the complexity of PvdA's to run smoothly in the future, I'm just reading from those reports and it's not technical either, I'm being whispered to me from the benches of the PvdA then the question I'm asking the PvdA is: does the PvdA's opinion with the CDA that this counter-expertise is insufficient and that there will be no operating system in the summer, and that this misery will simply persist? We need the PvdA in this. The VVD is often not present in this kind of debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u35	At the same time, I also see an ICT opinion indicating that the basics of the system should be able to handle it in principle. I believe that there should ultimately be a modality or a system that is simply at the service of the budget holders and of the payout to aid workers. What needs to be done for this, I leave it to the experts who are best placed to give an opinion on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u36	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u37	I can allow you to ask a new question, but then that interruption will go away from the three interruptions you have to deal with.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u38	Life is hard, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u39	That's right. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u40	The PvdA says there's a base that's gonna work. I'll read it to you again. M&I did not find any documents reflecting the current situation. So there is something of technique in the minds of a number of people, but nothing has been described. There has been no thought about what the system should do, what the diversity of the people we're talking about. How can the PvdA say this? Isn't that how this continues? And if we are going to be political anyway, it is precisely in the interests of the PvdA that this be resolved? After all, it is a PvdA Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u41	If you don't mind, I think the PvdA interest is great, but I think the importance of the budget holders and their aid workers is much greater. The PvdA therefore also asked for an implementation test at the first debate we had on the payout problems. These questions and problems need to be addressed. Does the system work in principle? How should it be improved? Can it be more user-friendly? Eventually, it's gotta be better. That is the task which the Labour Party has also laid down with the Secretary of State, because that motion was fortunately adopted. He's gonna have to work on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u42	Finally, Mrs Keijzer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u43	This counter-expertise could also be seen as the ICT implementation test towards the future. It's built on the words I just spoke. It is precisely because of the importance of all those budget holders, those small health care institutions that are falling down...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u44	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u45	...the people who've been working for months without getting money...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u46	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u47	...do we have to be much sharper on the answer to the questions: is this counter-expertise enough and is the system going to fly in the future? I hope to meet the PvdA at my side. Otherwise, I'm gonna have to try again at the VVD. Perhaps the Elias Committee, chaired by a prominent VVD member, has a sense of this technical question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u48	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u49	Because that is what it is all about in the end, in the interests of the budget holders.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u50	Of course, I agree that all the recommendations must be followed in order to make ICT work better. By the way, this implementation test is about more than just about the underlying ICT system. It is also about accessibility and the exchange of information. Eventually, it just has to work. People shouldn't be the victims of malfunctions in the system. There is no difference of opinion between Mrs Keijzer and me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u51	I wonder if the Labour Party will hold on to the date of 15 May mentioned in the motion. The counter-expertise shows that it is not so much a technical ICT problem as a chain problem. According to the counter-expertise, the improvement plans drawn up for this purpose cannot be checked. There must therefore be a whole review, with a corresponding new budget. Today it is 29 April and there are only 15 days left. How are we gonna make it before May 15th?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u52	I think Mrs Gerbrands is right to point out that it is a complex issue in which the ICT point, which Mrs Keijzer just mentioned, is one of the points. I also pointed out in response to her interruption that the complexity of the chain is also an important point. For this reason, chain directors have been appointed; they have to start the business. On 15 May, at the request of Mrs Dijkstra, the Secretary of State must have a few basic points in order. The Secretary of State stated in his letter how he sees it. About that date, I'll judge him on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u53	That chain director was asked for halfway through last year. So we are about a month or eight late with that now, but completely aside. It's obvious. Everything we have been able to read so far shows that the date of 15 May is not up to date and that the problems will probably not be resolved before the summer. Last week we saw a VVD alderman in Nieuwsuur, who says it's gonna take another year. I want to know from the Labour Party when it will be enough for the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u54	In my opinion, we do not disagree in this Chamber on the point that it is in the interests of the pgb-holders and the aid workers to resolve these problems as quickly as possible. That is what we have agreed on with each other. The Secretary of State has included in his letter a number of benchmarks which are important to him. That is what we are going to talk about in the next debate. I'll talk to him about that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u55	Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about the problems of paying out the pgbs. In the meantime, I have spoken to quite a few pgb-holders myself. I am well aware that the problems they face are profound. There has been considerable work done in the past period and improvements have been made. Many payments have been made through regular work and emergency scenarios. In the meantime, the chain partners have initiated the first phase of the recovery plan. The results of these actions are now visible. However, there are still problems for people and caregivers where the payment is not going well. It is important that they, too, be assured of a pgb as soon as possible, so that they can continue the care they need and the providers of support and care are paid for. Here, on behalf of the VVD Group, a great compliment is to all those caregivers who, despite these problems, ensure that their clients receive the care they need. Thank you very much for that. I would also like to express my appreciation for all the people who work hard at the Social Insurance Bank to resolve this as quickly as possible. The documents show that the SVB has indicated on which points specific attention from the Ministry was needed to make the system work. However, the SVB has consistently confirmed in the progress reports that 1 January 2015 was feasible and remained feasible. We see that the ministry then acted on the points of interest. In doing so, relapse scenarios have been developed for the sake of certainty. Unfortunately, these were also necessary in practice. In view of the progress reports, the audits carried out and the measures taken, it can be seen that these aspects were in the picture. This does not alter the fact that the measures taken subsequently proved impossible to avoid the problems of introduction. The VVD has always been very clear about this: these problems need to be solved. Can the Secretary of State state state what is the state of play with regard to progress at the moment and what we can expect to happen on 15 May?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u56	There are a few more questions, Mr Potters. Mrs Gerbrands is first on the interrupting microphone and may ask the first question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u57	I really like the input of the VVD, but I think this is something we're going to talk about on May 20th. What does Mr Potters think of the poor or incomplete information given by this Secretary of State to the Chamber? What is his opinion on the introduction of the right of draw as of 1 January 2015, while all signals were on red?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u58	The most important thing that stood on green was the signal from the Social Insurance Bank itself. She was the contractor for this project. They have consistently said in the progress reports that the introduction could continue as from 1 January 2015. There were problems and they had to be solved. That's what the Ministry's been acting on. However, the SVB has always said that there was no reason to stop this project. I would also point out that in the past this Chamber has even advocated speeding up its implementation. Mrs Leijten asked in 2013 whether it could not be faster and whether we could not introduce the pgb earlier. The Secretary of State then said that he could not, because he wanted to do it carefully and he wanted the trial to end well. That's what happened. Yes, there are problems and they need to be solved, but there was no signal that the project should not be implemented.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u59	Everyone's coming in for an interruption, Mrs Leijten. You too. But you were just quoted. Would you like to make that a personal fact?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u60	If you're inventorying or you can do something faster, it's always gonna have to be done carefully. The question now is whether the Chamber should have been informed of all warnings. That is what this debate is about. Bringing in a quote from 2013 is not choosing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u61	That point is marked. Mrs Gerbrands, you may ask your second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u62	If the Chamber asks whether it can be done faster, it must be done on the basis of good information. I have also read that progress report and indeed in every line at the top, at the beginning of the progress report, it says: the introduction is not at stake, but... If Mr Potters had read all those progress reports, he would have seen what was wrong with it. I would also point out to the Potters that the SVB had an interest in the introduction, because it was about getting the money and the job.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u63	I'm gonna distance myself from that. I also know the Social Insurance Bank in another role in another portfolio that I had until recently. That is where highly skilled people, who want to steer the work on legality and do the job well, work well, and who have indicated to the Secretary of State that there were problems and that they needed to act on them, but that the progress was not at stake. That information is extremely important to me as a Member of Parliament. If things had been different, we would have had another debate. But every month it has been said that progress is good, in the sense that there were problems, but that we could continue with this big project as of 1 January 2015. I think that is the most important conclusion to be drawn. That information was also shared with the Chamber. That was good information and the Secretary of State acted on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u64	Mrs Keijzer's turn is now, Mrs Gerbrands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u65	But we did not receive the information we received yesterday at the end of last year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u66	Of which act.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u67	That information that we could have made a decision on wasn't there. Mr Potters should not now say that there was.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u68	It's been noted.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u69	The information on which a decision could be made. There has been no such information, so Mr Potters should not say that it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u70	It's been noted. It's listed in the Acts. I now give the floor to Mrs Keijzer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u71	Let's get to the future. Is the fraction of the VVD satisfied with the counter-expertise by M&I/Partners? Or does the fraction of the VVD also see that it is not possible to check whether the existing system is working because no documentation has been found? The plan of technical consolidation aimed at counter-expertise does not actually exist. In view of the future, this must lead to great concerns.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u72	I'm trying to distill a question out of that. I think the question is: are you worried about the ICT system? Is that what's wrong with the draw rights of the pgbs? Reports have shown that this is not the case. There are problems with the introduction, but the ICT system itself is not the problem. The complexity of the chain makes it difficult. That's crucial to me. Of course, if the ICT system needs to be improved, we need to implement it as soon as possible. We have all said that the pgb payout will be given priority. That's what all the balls have to be focused on right now, so to speak. Then we need to look at how the ICT system can be improved.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u73	Finally, Mrs Keijzer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u74	Maybe it's good to read those three reports again. Everything I'm saying right now is on paper. I'm really worried about whether the system is going to fly and the problems will be solved. You refer to Mr Potters, Mr President, but I have learned that I must look at you when I speak. I would like to address Mr Potters...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u75	If you're trying to ask me a question, that's what I was trying to tell you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u76	I'm glad, Mr. Chairman, otherwise I'm gonna have to change my behavior. I'm really worried about the future. Is the system going to fly? Will people be paid? There is one more question that needs to be addressed by the VVD, the party that always deals carefully with public money. In the report also found something about the target architecture. The report states that combating fraud is only possible with the right to draw system. Should we not, as a Chamber, look very closely at the question of whether the system is going to fly this way? I have not yet drawn that conclusion. I do think the report of M&I/Partners, the counter-expertise, is insufficient. That is clear to me, but the question is whether it will work in the future, not yet. I'd like an initial response from the VVD on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u77	These are technical questions that I sincerely believe you should ask the Secretary of State. Let us say first of all that the introduction of the pgbs and the right to draw were precisely intended to prevent fraud. I think we're pulling the same rope. We both think it is important that when a pgb is provided, this happens lawfully and also in the right way. That is what we want, and that is what the system must provide. Based on what I read in the report, I assume that the ICT system is satisfactory. But if improvement is possible, if we need to adjust, we need to do so. I've told you before, we're holding ten fingers on the wrist. If the Secretary of State believes that there should be an adjustment, we should certainly do so. However, I have no reason to say that the ICT system is not satisfactory.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u78	Mr. President, may I...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u79	No, Mrs. Voortman has...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u80	I would like to make a point of order, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u81	No, Mrs Keijzer, I give the floor to Mrs Voortman, only to Mrs Voortman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u82	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u83	I just heard Mr Potters say something which struck me quite oddly, namely that the introduction of the right of draw would have been done carefully. I wondered how he could come to that conclusion when he saw how many concerns there were in advance and how many problems there were after the introduction of the drawing right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u84	There were and are many external factors surrounding the right of draw which have created implementation problems. We all regret these implementation problems, I think. I do think that the Secretary of State has done his best, and the process has carefully ended, to properly implement the right of draw. He didn't rush into saying in 2013: I'm going to do it now. He took his time. Emergency scenarios have been prepared in case things go wrong. In my opinion, he went through that process carefully. The fact that there are now problems with the right to draw and that they need to be resolved quickly is a priority. The VVD loves that, too. The question to the Secretary of State is: where are we now and how do we ensure that this is resolved quickly? But I think he has handled the process of introducing the right of trekking very carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u85	Mr Potters, too, must recognise that there have been enormous problems since 1 January and that they have been largely predictable. If you already know that, how can you say it's been careful? Doesn't Mr Potters agree that on the basis of all those warnings that gradually came to the VWS ministry in autumn 2014 or as of 2013, you could have concluded that this couldn't have been introduced as of 1 January 2015?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u86	When you engage in such a large, complex operation, I think it's about trying to organise that process as carefully as possible and as carefully as possible. I think that's really true. The Secretary of State has also set aside a number of scenarios which, if it did not succeed, would allow the payment to continue. He has finished that process, but there were a lot of external factors on which the Secretary of State and everyone depended. The care agreements had to be submitted on time. It's a complex matter. As we all know, sometimes it's pgb-holders with multiple pgbs. It's complicated. The Social Insurance Bank, which we sent for legality, had to rely on the provision of the pgbs at some point and therefore had to make that switch. At the last minute we changed the target group. We have said that we prefer to have the target group in the social insurance laws in the Long-Term Care Act; we also did so at the end of the year. Many activities have also been undertaken in the field of information, but you do not know whether you can reach everyone. As I said, I think the process has gone very carefully in itself, but I also, of course, regret that it is not going well now. I'm sorry about that, too. In fact, I think this is far-reaching for the people who it is about. So we must now focus on solving these problems as well as possible and as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u87	I hear the VVD group say that it is all very complicated, also for the pgb-holders. I regret that the VVD Group is saying this, because now it seems as if the pgb holders are the culprits of this whole mess. That certainly does not seem to me to be the issue. The VVD Group, through Mr Potters, states that the process has gone well. He also indicates that there have been risks, but that all those risks have been acted on. Can the VVD Group now insist that this has really gone well, that there has been sufficient action and that an emergency scenario has been developed in time? After all, we are now faced with a huge mess for thousands of people. I'd like to get a reaction to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u88	However, I would first like to distance myself from Mrs Dik-Faber's words. After all, she puts words in my mouth, as if I were pointing my finger at the pgb-holders. No, I'm just saying I have an eye for how far-reaching this process is. People sometimes have multiple pgbs and sometimes fall into the Health Insurance Act, sometimes into the Long-Term Care Act and sometimes into the Wmo. That's incredibly complex. It's being worked hard to solve that. With this I do not point to the pgb-holders; far from that. I would just like to point out that this is a complex matter, which sometimes means that it cannot happen at once, but for which we must have an eye. As far as the process is concerned, I think you should distinguish between the process of introduction and the process after its introduction. I believe that this Secretary of State has done everything in his power to ensure that the process leading up to its introduction is conducted with care. It is also a matter of care that he has also laid down emergency scenarios in case it would not be possible to do so. Because of these external factors there were problems in the proper functioning of benefits in kind, the emergency scenarios have been removed. And yes, problems have arisen. These problems need to be dealt with quickly. That's what the Secretary of State promised. We'll hold the Secretary of State to that, too. We're in that process. I think it is important that we focus our energy on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u89	I am still a little surprised about the reaction of the VVD Group, because looking at the situation we are in the middle of, it is not possible to maintain that until 31 December there was a good act and that from 1 January there should not have been any step forward. I am trying to sum up Mr Potters' response to my question. Action has indeed been taken, but it has been constantly maintained from one party that it will be okay, provided that this and that happens. That is what actions have been put in place. Yet we are now faced with this enormous chaos. Then the conclusion can only be that things have not been adequately taken up in the trial. Surely that could be the only outcome of our collective review of this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u90	I have mentioned five external factors, including the Chamber itself; let us also look at ourselves so that the process around the pgbs has not gone smoothly. Those are just facts of life, which took place the moment we went to enter the pgb. I believe that the process of introducing the pgb has been careful. After that, there were problems. We need to act on that soon. Once again, I say that we consider this to be very important. But there are those external factors. You can't banish them all the time. It's not a process where you simply roll out an operation. It's a complex operation with a lot of external factors. Some of them have occurred at the same time and that is why there are problems now. We have to deal with these problems. I am still firmly convinced that the process of introducing the pgb has been careful. I also welcome the fact that the Secretary of State did not say in 2013 that we should do so quickly, but that he took the time to take away all possible risks at the front to ensure that the process is going well. That there will be problems, that will happen. This also happens in other areas. We can't direct everything here from the Chamber exactly. That just needs to be acted on properly. That is the question before us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u91	We can't direct everything from the Chamber, certainly not, but we can keep a finger on the wrist as a room. The Chamber must then be informed. I think it is quite important that the VVD concludes that everything went well until the introduction. Wouldn't the VVD have wanted to see that the Chamber had been informed about all warning letters, both internally and externally? In other words, there is a report commissioned by Zorginstituut Nederland which concludes that the budget holders are the child of the current ICT system when the drawing right is introduced. That's literally what it says. Shouldn't the Chamber simply have been informed about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u92	I'm trying to get the pieces, but I think the Chamber has been talking to the Secretary of State on a regular basis about this since mid-July last year. Regular questions have been asked as to how progress is being made. Eventually, in November, the Secretary of State said that emergency scenarios had to come out because some things were not working out. What matters to me is the information the Secretary of State assumed. That information is the fact that the SVB's progress report, and not all of the underlying letters, constantly says: yes, there are problems and they are soluble, but the right of draw will be enforceable as of 1 January 2015, as we all want. The Secretary of State had that information and he has to share it with the Chamber. If he had had other signals and he had not shared them with the Chamber, we would have had another debate. That is not the case, so I think we have been well informed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u93	If you're like a spokesperson on a subject, I understand you can miss the history, but we haven't talked about this since July 11th. In fact, during the summer, as an opposition, we asked for a substantive response to the emergency clock that was the VNG. We didn't get it because the VVD and the Labour Party blocked it. Mrs Keijzer then asked questions about this. They were answered two months later, which is way beyond the deadline. It said, "There's nothing wrong, go to sleep, if anything doesn't go well, there's an emergency scenario." That's the only thing that's changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u94	Your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u95	Then questions were asked in a debate...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u96	Mrs Leijten, you will now put a question to Mr Potters.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u97	... in which there were a hundred items on the agenda and said the Secretary of State: the budget holders will not suffer from the introduction of the drawing right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u98	One question, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u99	Could the VVD have come to a different conclusion if it had been informed of all the warnings received by the State Secretary or does the VVD consider that the process has gone well?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u100	Those are always like-dan questions with the science of today. After asking what you could have done, those are impossible questions to answer. Mrs Leijten asks whether the Chamber has been properly informed. I see that there was a letter to the House on 27 September, that there was an AO on 8 October, that there was a letter on 3 November and that it was discussed in the budget debate. Those are moments when the Chamber and the Secretary of State exchanged information on this file. There was no signal at the time that it could not go on. There have been problems and those problems have been dealt with. Emergency scenarios have been pulled out of the closet. Yeah, with today's science, you can avoid problems you see now. You might have...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u101	No, Mrs. Leijten. I call Mrs Dijkstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u102	Mr. Chairman. There was no AO over pgb's on October 8th.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u103	Mrs Leijten, I hear from Mr Potters that he has not finished his reply. He's moving on now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u104	With the knowledge that problems have arisen today, you might have acted differently in front of it if you had that information. Maybe. You could have done more in the field of information, but that is looking back and that is always easy. I think that the process up to and including the introduction has been really careful.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u105	I would point out to Mr Potters of the VVD that in 2014 the Chamber indicated at several times that it might not be going well. We have asked questions about this to the Secretary of State and he has always replied that he is acting on it. He writes this in his letter again. In fact, the information that is now coming out of the progress reports so intensely has not come to us. The progress reports indeed show that it is ultimately feasible. However, the October progress report is very clear: from August onwards, we are running behind the facts, there are strong implementation issues in the chain, several decisions are already too late to be ready for 1 January, even the most simple variant is now in trouble as regards the feasibility of 1 January. Then there may eventually be a green smiling face when it comes to whether it is feasible, because there are all kinds of emergency scenarios in place, but it is orange when it comes to whether the overall goals can be achieved and there are also red points. I would ask the VVD: would the Chamber not have reacted differently if it had seen it then, rather than responding to the Secretary of State's statement that there are problems but that it will be okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u106	I think we should also look closely at our role. It is the role of the Chamber to monitor the Secretary of State and to examine whether such a complex operation as that of the pgb can be carried out properly and carefully. The Secretary of State has given that order to the Social Insurance Bank. The Social Insurance Bank is the contractor and only the bank can decide whether this process is going well. Anyone can have an opinion on this, including external parties, but the bank must carry it out. The bank continuously writes progress reports after progress reports......................................................................................................................................................................................................................... However, the bank also writes: you can continue the progress and the introduction as of 1 January 2015. Each time, this question is explicitly addressed. If the Secretary of State acts on that information, he'll take the right steps. I think we are well informed about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u107	I understand very well that Mr Potters says that we are looking at the knowledge of the present, but that is also a way of making things right. With the knowledge of today, we also find that we did not have the right knowledge at that time. Mr Potters may say that the Chamber has only a controlling function and has to establish afterwards that it did not go well, but we were told in every external position that it would not work. We have always asked for it and we have always received the answer that it will be all right. So it turns out it didn't go well. That is what we are struggling with now, and Mr Potters should do the same. The scenario has taken place as we all did not want it to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u108	Of course, there are now circumstances that we find extremely annoying, because we want the pgb-holders and healthcare providers to be paid out quickly and properly. I have also said that there are four or five external factors that have made the introduction of the pgb difficult. These external factors have occurred. It is good of the Secretary of State that he did not wait, that he did not say: there are external factors and then I am going to act. He has developed emergency scenarios, and he has pulled them out of the closet to ensure that the payment of the pgbs goes through as well as possible, despite the problems. I think that's a good way of doing things.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u109	Mr Potters states that it is the role of the Chamber to check. Of course, we all agree with that. The point, however, is that you can only carry out that control task if the information you receive is correct. If you compare the documents, for example the progress report, with the information provided by the Secretary of State, do you notice that the tone is very different? Shouldn't the Secretary of State have provided better information and indicated more intrusively that it wasn't as simple as he made it appear?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u110	I think the Secretary of State should be questioned about this colouring. For me, it is important that the Secretary of State, questioned about signals from the Chamber and from the surrounding area, has checked whether the pgb right of draw could be introduced as of 1 January 2015. That question has been on the table all the time. It would have been much more annoying if we had ever had just one progress report, or two, and in the meantime nothing. No, that question has been dealt with all the time. And all the time, whoever had to do it said, yes, despite the problems we see, we can enter this. The Secretary of State acted on that and I think that was a good conclusion. With regard to the colour and the words chosen by the Secretary of State at the time, you really need to ask the Secretary of State yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u111	Another point. I also heard Mr Potters say that the Social Insurance Bank always indicated that it could go ahead. Does this mean that Mr Potters also places the responsibility for this with the Social Insurance Bank? Was there perhaps another decision taken if the Social Insurance Bank had communicated more clearly to the Ministry of VWS and the Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u112	No, you can't hear me say that. As usual in this house, the Secretary of State is responsible for all decisions he makes, as well as for the decisions of the subcontractors he hires for such a large operation. However, it is a question of whether the Secretary of State has acted at the right moments. If there had been another signal if the Social Insurance Bank had clearly said that they would turn all smileys on red because they couldn't, and the Secretary of State had continued, we would have had another debate. However, that has not been the case; I think we should simply draw that conclusion. But if a contractor says, "Of course, there are problems, which I picture, which need to be solved; but we are responsible and we can do it like this," the Secretary of State must be able to rely on them and act on them. We must be able to assume that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u113	I have the report of the general consultation of 8 October 2014. To questions from the Lower House, from the members of the permanent committee for VWS, the Secretary of State replies literally: "So far I have received signals that it could be technically arranged on 1-1-2015." That is all the Secretary of State informs the Chamber about the implementation and the introduction of the drawing right as of 1 January 2015. In the light of all the documents that have been sent to the Chamber, with all the information about the concerns, the risks and those smileys, I really hate that phenomenon smiley in this respect; but well, we have worked with them, which all look very sad, this really is a very brief response from the Secretary of State. Does the VVD Group share this view?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u114	On 8 October, in a general consultation, we asked what the state of play was and whether this could be implemented, while progress reports were available stating that it could be done. If your question is whether the Secretary of State gave a correct answer at that time, I confirm that. That is the question we are discussing today. The colour and the words chosen by the Secretary of State, as well as the amount of words and the amount of comments, I leave to the Secretary of State. The information given at the time, I think, has just been the right information.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u115	I read here in one sentence that it could be technically possible to introduce the right of draw on 1 January 2015. We now know that there were all kinds of unbearable reports underneath. In fact, they became more and more frightening. In that case, surely it is not persuasive that the Chamber has been included in the whole process of implementation? Surely the VVD Group cannot say that this has been a good process?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u116	I think we've talked about this process at several times. Concerns were also expressed during the budget debate. The Secretary of State has responded to this. As I indicated, he also pulled emergency scenarios out of the closet. I think that the process up to and including the introduction has been careful. What we cannot do in this Chamber is eliminate all possible risks. Sometimes that's hard to accept. The introduction of the right of draw depended on external factors. I've mentioned these a few times. Unfortunately, some of these factors have occurred at the same time. Emergency scenarios have been pulled out of the closet. Now we all have to ensure that the payment goes as well and as smoothly as possible and that the right of draw, which we all support, is properly implemented. I have faith in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u117	Mr. Chairman. If it had been up to 50PLUS, we would have had this debate today with another Secretary of State. It is now the fifth time that the problems of the personal budget have been discussed here, and it has still not been resolved. How many times do we have to stand here before these problems are really solved? How many fine promises do we have to hear from this Secretary of State and how often do we debate before we see any real progress? I ask the Secretary of State, what good is the people involved in this? These are people who have not received wages for four months and who have not had the budget to pay their healthcare provider. Many of them have been affected by payment problems. There are people who have even had to stop their help, because they have not received a pgb and therefore cannot pay their healthcare provider anymore. Then I come to the question that was raised yesterday: the huge pile of old pieces that were not sent to the Chamber until Tuesday after noon. Last night, a whole flood came after it. How can the Chamber properly prepare itself for a debate in this way? Like many colleagues, I ask the Secretary of State. How can the Chamber perform such a controlling function properly? Making the documents available at such a late date is well-considered contempt of the Chamber, but that is so far. What is much worse is that it is a contempt of all the people who are the victims of all the problems. Does the Secretary of State have a reaction to that? In addition, 50PLUS considers it to be out of bounds that the Secretary of State again points to the budget holders in his letter. They would send in their declarations too late or make mistakes with them. I'm speechless. The fact that a system does not work is not due to the budget holder but to the Secretary of State himself. He has to make sure the system works. He's the only one who's responsible for that and has to deal with this disorder. There were indeed signs that things were not going well, but they were tackled, as the Secretary of State wrote yesterday. Then why the hell did it become such a mess? When it has been decided to allow the transition to continue, I ask, like many colleagues. What guarantee is there that the deadline of 15 May will be met? The Amsterdam alderman, like others, has already indicated that he has a hard head in it. 50PLUS awaits the answers of the Secretary of State with fear and trembling, but he must have a very good story to get away with this. What happens if the 15 May deadline is not met? Is there a new deadline or does the Secretary of State take credit for himself?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u118	This brings to an end the first term of office. I'm gonna ask the spokesmen to come and talk to me about how we're gonna do for lunch.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u119	I've consulted with the spokesmen. I'm suspending the meeting for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u120	We will continue with the answer of the Secretary of State. I would like to agree with Members to allow a maximum of three interruptions per Member of Parliament during this period.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u121	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Members for their first-term input. Several Members have said that this is the fifth time that we have had the debate on personal budgets. The common thread in all these debates is that it is very important that the disbursement of the pgbs to the budget holders should be as good, undisturbed and quick as possible. That is where the urgency lies for me and for the budget holders, it was there too, and as far as I am concerned, it will remain there as well. There's and will be deployed to the maximum. I would like to stress once again that I too deeply regret the inconvenience caused by the introduction of the right of withdrawal of payments for budget holders and caregivers. I will also say at the beginning of my term that I did not suggest anywhere that it would be the fault of the pgb-holders. I don't want to suggest that anywhere either, because I don't. Let us make that clear. What about the numbers and when was declared? Mrs. Voortman asked for that. She asked me to confirm this. It's not, and I didn't make that suggestion. I didn't say that and it's simply not true. Also in those cases where the communication was declared too late because the communication was not good and someone did not know certain things, it is not the budget holder, but the person who takes care of the communication.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u122	In fact, I find it objectionable that the comment I am making now counts as an interruption, because it is a correction. The Secretary of State says he didn't suggest that it was the budget holders who declared it too late, but that's on page 6 of his letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u123	No, there's just the numbers from the audit. For example, the audit asked why some things take place outside the five to ten-day period. The answer was that this also depends on the time of entry. That makes sense. It's hard to tell the Social Insurance Bank "you won't make it in five to ten days" when the stuff comes in later at the SVB. That doesn't mean it's the budget holder's fault or caregiver's fault. There could be a lot of things going on. That is what we have been talking about. I find it difficult to blame the Social Insurance Bank for not paying something if the declaration is not there, but the fact that that declaration is not there does not have to be the fault of the budget holder at all. I don't want to suggest that. That's not true, and I'm not saying that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u124	So I'm really sorry about this. The Secretary of State does write in his letter that the declaration is coming in too late by the budget holder, while the budget holder is not discussed at all in the audit. The audit simply looked at how the SVB declarations are processed. The Secretary of State calls the budget holder himself in his letter, knowing that that will then get the news. The news will then be: 40% of budget holders will be late in their accounts. That's what we've been watching all day yesterday in the news. Not the audit, but the Secretary of State made that choice. I'd like to have that marked.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u125	The figures in the letter come directly from the audit. I didn't make anything up myself. I just quoted it from the audit. I confirm once again that, for my part, I do not think it is the budget holder's fault. I fully agree with Mrs Voortman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u126	Mrs Leijten, you may put your third and final question on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u127	On page 9 an analysis is made of the scanned declarations and the invoice date on them. I would now like the Secretary of State to state where the word 'budget holder' is referred to and why the budget holders are mentioned at all on page 6 of his letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u128	The audit investigated why some declarations are not handled within five to ten days. It says that 39% of the declarations received have an invoice date less than seven days ago compared to the moment of receipt by the SVB and that 57% of the declarations have an invoice date less than fourteen days ago. Those are the audit figures. I'm not making any statements about how that happened. I simply note that this also seems fair to me to the Social Insurance Bank that the SVB states in the audit when it received the stuff in order to be able to pay out. There may be reasons for that to come later. That doesn't have to be the budget holder's fault. I do not want to suggest that, nor do I want to note it, because that is simply not the issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u129	Mrs Leijten, I have already allowed you a third question. I now give the floor to Mrs Voortman, unless you say that you want to use the second of your three interruptions now. I would advise you to wait for a few more questions from you to be answered. Mrs. Voortman, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u130	The common thread in this story is pgb caregivers, because it's about them, not about budget holders, who have to wait a long time before they get paid out. At the time when the Secretary of State states in his letter that people do not get their money within five to ten days because caregivers themselves wait a week or two weeks to send their bill, can he imagine that then happens as if he is trying to shift some of the problems to the caregivers themselves? Can he imagine that it might not be so convenient to write that down in this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u131	When it happens that way, I very much regret it, because that is not the way it should be. The only thing that has happened is that in the audit it has been determined precisely, partly at my request, how some declarations are not paid within those five to ten days. Of these, the audit indicates that a certain percentage of the declarations received later arrived at the Social Insurance Bank when it came to the invoice date, which means that it is not due to the Social Insurance Bank that late payments are made. That doesn't mean it's the budget holder's fault, does it? Perhaps it is left with a mediation agency, or perhaps there are quite different reasons for this. I don't want to have said it's the budget holder's fault. I simply note that these are the figures from the audit. I didn't say anything else.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u132	I take it the Secretary of State doesn't want to say it's the fault of the pgb carers either. It's not so crazy that it takes you a week to send an invoice. It's kind of crazy that it takes months for you to get paid. The moment you put these two things together, it comes across to people who often feel that they are being thrown away as fraudsters as if they were being blamed. I hope, therefore, that the Secretary of State can indicate that it is not the intention for people to feel that the blame is being placed on them and that this is unjustified.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u133	That is indeed quite wrong. That debt shouldn't be on them. It's simply about when the declarations come in and can't be paid. It's really a shame if that's the feeling, because I didn't suggest it, and I won't do it in the future either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u134	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u135	I too am very sorry to have to make an interruption, because I actually think that this is a point of order. Three debates ago, the Secretary of State also stood here. Then he apologized that he had given the impression that budget holders had not delivered the invoices. Now, three further debates, the impression is given that budget holders are delivering too late. Now he stands here and says that it is a pity that that impression has been made. So he didn't learn from the first time he apologized. Now he spins it like he doesn't give the impression, but he does it every time!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u136	I cannot defend myself against an impression that I myself have not awakened or desire to awaken. I note that the audit has simply investigated when declarations come in and how it is that some of them can be paid by the Social Insurance Bank too late. This is apparently due, among other things, to the date on the invoice that is due two weeks later to the Social Insurance Bank. The Social Insurance Bank reports that. Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u137	We also had this discussion three years ago, and what turned out to be? There were all mail bags at the Sociale Verzekeringsbank, scanned invoices were missing in the system and there were all kinds of other problems. That was the reason this Secretary of State apologized at the time. Now those mailbags just left the SVB? I don't believe any of that! Now the system is working at the SVB? I do not believe that at all, because there are still tens of thousands of people waiting for payment!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u138	At the request of the Chamber, I also had an audit carried out on the lead times. These figures came out. These were presented in the audit and I reported them to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u139	It's very factual.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u140	Yeah, but it's a question anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u141	I'm just gonna read out what the Secretary of State writes in his letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u142	If I give you the floor, it's a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u143	It is influencing the debate if it is not allowed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u144	Mrs Leijten, this is just a question. I'll write it down as a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u145	Whatever you say. The striking outcome of the audit is that 39% of the declarations have a minimum of two weeks between the time the healthcare provider submits his declaration to the budget holder and the moment the SVB receives this declaration. That is not reported in the audit. It only states that items of mail are older than 14 days upon entry. At the same time, the audit states that the SVB has too little capacity to process everything. In his conclusion, the Secretary of State certainly blames the budget holder. He should have been a little more humble at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u146	Once again, I am not blaming the budget holder, I do not want to put him there either. I present numbers and that's it. I regret that some people think that I blame the budget holder. I didn't say that, and I don't want to wake up that suggestion either. There has been a great deal of talk in the Chamber, even in the run-up to this debate, about the information that large packs of paper have been sent to the Chamber. I can very well imagine that, on the basis of these large packages of paper, the Chamber is saying: how can we already have a discussion? I still want to tell you what I've been trying to do. We have had a number of debates on the question: what information is there? We then had an exchange of views in the debate on the conduct of two independent investigations, by the Ombudsman and the General Court. I would make all the documents available to those researchers so that the Chamber could discuss this at a later date. The Chamber then scheduled a debate on 20 May. Press publications were then published on a progress report. These have led the Court to say that it wanted all these documents. I did not wish to suggest that these are secret documents or that they could not be made available. We had previously agreed that the report would come to the Chamber through the investigators. The Chamber said she wanted those pieces sooner. We then sent those pieces to the Chamber. It's a whole bunch of pieces. It's a lot of work to do. We tried to do it as fast as we could. I can very well imagine that the Chamber says that it has not been able to read all these documents before this debate. I'd have that reaction myself. We have another debate on 20 May. So we first had the deal through the investigators. Later, the Chamber found a reason to request that information itself. I said: if that is the wish of the Chamber, then I will do so in order to show maximum transparency. The reports requested have also been made available for inspection. I have acted with maximum transparency. I can imagine that it is very difficult to read the whole package of pieces for this debate, but we are also going to have another debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u147	The last thing I want is some kind of, uh... Wells-nothing game with the Secretary of State. However, we have to note that the Secretary of State has always indicated that the last time that progress reports have been requested, they would come with the evaluation. Then we'd get all that information in one go. It is therefore not true that the Secretary of State did not know that we wanted these progress reports before. He had in his mind that we didn't need it until the AO of May 20th, but that seems a little strange to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u148	I have indeed said that I am making it available so that we can discuss it properly in the evaluation. But when the Chamber told me last week that she wanted it all, given the press publications, I tried to gather and make it available as soon as possible. This has led to this week's action.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u149	I started my interruption with the words: I don't want a well-nothing game. This way it's gonna look a little bit like that. Of course, we are all alarmed by the documents that appeared in the newspapers and by the messages in other media. The Secretary of State told the Chamber: no, this is all coming at one time and then we can discuss it in conjunction. It is annoying, however, that we are constantly dripping out news that shows that we are not aware of a number of things. The question of why the Court did not receive this information earlier, namely when it asked for it, therefore seems to me to be a justified question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u150	I can imagine that feeling very well. That is why, when I asked that question last week in connection with media publications, I said that we are going to do the same. I can well imagine the question of the Chamber, and I can imagine that the Chamber does not want to wait until everything comes in through the investigation report, but wants to see it all for itself in the meantime. That is why I have done so and collected it as soon as possible. So you're right about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u151	It's nice that we're right, but I didn't ask the questions last week. I have been getting the pieces since 3 March, which we had yesterday in such a cluster bomb. For the past 24 hours, we've actually been getting such a mess of paper for the AOs this afternoon and tomorrow afternoon, that you're thinking: how does it work with this Secretary of State? It is a question I would like to put to the Secretary of State. If he deals with the Chamber in this way, what does that say about the way he deals with budget holders and caregivers, about solving the problems they face?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u152	I've seen that, too. You are talking about the preparation of the other debates that are going on. A large number of questions were asked by the Chamber, together with the request to answer them before the AA on 30 April. I did my best to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u153	That is fine, Mr President, but those are not questions that were asked the day before yesterday. My question to the Secretary of State was this. If he now deals with the information position of the Chamber and facilitates the Chamber to debate with this Secretary of State in a good, substantive way, what does that mean for the way he is actually involved with budget holders, caregivers and care institutions that are falling over?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u154	I hope to convince you of that in my speech. It is always my intention to ensure that the position of the budget holders is paramount when it comes to payments, as I have just indicated. That's what all the actions are aimed at. They're gonna stay focused on that, too. I always try to answer the questions of the Chamber in all conscience. We had a planning meeting recently. On the one hand, there are a lot of questions. For our part, we need to indicate better what is going to happen and what is not. We must inform the Chamber. If you look at the preparation of the various debates, for example this week, you will see that it is true that the Chamber has asked a large number of questions. There is nothing wrong with that, and the message was: can we get the answers to the debates? That is what we are trying to do, and I can imagine that if those answers come, it will be a great deal. I can see that, but I try to answer the questions of the Chamber as best I can. The purpose of personal budgets in the law and the right to draw is widely shared. A number of members of the Chamber have also stressed this. It is not for nothing that we have legally enshrined the personal budgets in the four new healthcare laws. We all think it is incredibly important that budget holders who want and can do so can direct their care or support. That's very important. It's not a new instrument, because we've had it for a while. But the legal anchoring of it in all laws is, I think, a great asset. It allows people who want and can do that to be able to direct themselves. At the same time, we must ensure that we can combat misuse and fraud. The drawing rights are a building block. Maybe not the building block, but a building block. It is very important for the image of the instrument. Budget holders working in good faith with their personal budget are incredibly affected by that image. These are two sides of the same coin: to ensure that there is a legal anchoring of the personal budgets, but also to ensure that, for example, with the building block drawing rights, but also with other things, we actively combat improper use. In conversations with budget holders, that point comes back every time. If you are a budget holder with a personal budget, the image should not be that you are improperly dealing with money. In fact, it is a very important instrument, with which a lot of people can direct themselves. They all suffer from a bad image. That is why we are all still saying to each other: it has been a very good thing to anchor the instrument in the laws. On the other hand, the introduction of drawing rights as a building block for combating improper use gives us an adult instrument. A while ago, therefore, we started preparing for the introduction of these personal budgets. A number of Members of Parliament have raised this issue and it has also been postponed once or twice in the context of the question: should we make further preparations? In the end, we headed for introduction on 1 January 2015. We had to, because on that date the responsibilities were redistributed. Municipalities were given a responsibility, health insurers were given a responsibility and the health offices were given a responsibility. I reported in December last year that it was a major operation, which had a number of phases and involved risks. That wasn't an empty cry. It was thus recognised that such a major operation was a major task for the distribution of responsibilities and the introduction of the personal budgets into those new responsibilities. Since then, the steering committee has also started to function, with all the parties involved in it. A number of Members of the Chamber have said: if you look through the hairs of the eye at that progress report, what should you observe? Of course, I did. Then you will first see that there is a discussion about the principles that are going to be used. Privacy impact analyses have been made, communication has been discussed and it has been said "let's do a few more tests on the IT system." A gateway analysis has also been carried out and it has emerged: there are still some points of improvement and bottlenecks that need to be made. That's why we decided to do another one to see if we were on course. It was created in September and showed that a large number of bottlenecks had been resolved. For example, around October, the first signs came that the healthcare agreements had to work out well, otherwise payments could not be made at a good rate. When it was said, it was actually a bit in August, that at least there had to be relapse scenarios in the event of unforeseen events. This was done in order to prevent the system from being ready but the payment would be stalled because the healthcare agreement was not approved. In order to ensure a good position for the budget holder, it has been ensured that payments could be made. This does not make the system the leading factor in whether or not to pay. People just need to get their money and that's why it's as secure as possible. Following October's progress report, which pointed out that there might be a peak at the end of the year, an important meeting was held in November. In it, these relapse scenarios have been further developed. In response to questions from Mrs Keijzer, in November, the House was told that we were actually going to use those relapse scenarios. They were further supplemented in December by saying: we are now going to approve of our own motion, we are not going to take measures to prevent payment so that it is secured. Looking at these progress reports, but also wider, we have tried as well as possible to identify and keep track of the risks, as is also the case with large projects like this. Were there any warnings? Yes, we organized them ourselves. If you want to organise such a project properly, you must also constantly monitor the risks. Then you have to decide what measures you take to tackle those risks with each other and see how things go well. The intention is not to ignore warnings, but to act and react. That is exactly what happened in October, when we noticed that at a peak, for example in relation to the healthcare agreement and conformity, payments should not be put at risk. Therefore relapse scenarios have been developed. I'll come back to the question of how things could go wrong. I note that we have really tried not only to get a picture of all the risks in those transitional reports. That was very consciously done. We said, "Come out with it, because then we know where they are, then we can try to act and tackle the risks in a good way." When we noticed that there were risks that could result in payments stagnating, fallback scenarios were designed, precisely in view of the fact that payments to budget holders should remain as well as possible. After all, that was the purpose of the whole operation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u155	After this piece in the Secretary of State's speech, we are therefore behind it: the fallback scenarios were created because 1 January 2015 had to be achieved in the context of the changing responsibilities. At all costs, the introduction took place on 1 January, because of the health care reforms that were in parallel with the introduction of the drawing right. I understand that from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u156	But that makes sense, doesn't it? The change in responsibilities resulted in many more actions: part of the AWBZ went to the municipalities, on which the municipalities had to prepare themselves, and part of the AWBZ went to the health insurance companies, on which the health insurers had to prepare themselves. Apart from the pgb, this redistribution of responsibilities was under way. We had to, because we had decided to do so by amending the health care laws. That's what the pgbs had to do. That makes sense to me. Surely you cannot assign new responsibilities to everyone without consequences for the implementation of the pgbs? That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u157	Within the AWBZ the pgb could already, under the municipalities could pgb already, the only new thing is that the pgb now falls under the Zvw. It seems to me that this was less disastrous than the introduction of this right of draw as it has now been.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u158	Of course, that's what I've been asking myself. What alternatives were available? In retrospect, of course, you never know if you could have avoided this kind of trouble, but I'm going to walk past those alternatives. We could have let the care offices continue the pgb execution. We should have asked 32 health offices to do that for 400 municipalities. I still do not think that would have been in the interests of the budget holders. Would that have been a better alternative? I think that would have caused a lot of problems, wondering if that had led to a good landing. We could've let the municipalities and the health insurance companies do it ourselves; we wouldn't have had a central execution. That might have been an alternative, but at the time, when we talked about everything that came towards the municipalities, I didn't find it attractive to put this on the board of the municipalities as well. I do not know if that would have been in the interests of the budget holders. Of course you could have done other things, but would that have been in the interests of the budget holders, given the fact that the progress reports showed that we would come in heavy weather and that there were risks involved? Introduction as of 1 January 2015 was feasible if we were to take a number of measures. What is most in the interest of budget holders? Or did we have to make a big switch to execution by health offices and/or municipalities? Some municipalities wanted to try, but others advised me not to, because they didn't think they could handle it. Those considerations have also been made in the interests of the budget holders. You should, given the situation, do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u159	I miss an alternative in the list of alternatives that the Secretary of State is now setting out, to say: we will not do it as of 1 January, but we will postpone it, for example until 1 July 2015 or until 1 January 2016. Can the Secretary of State also explain that alternative?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u160	As I said, because we all changed that law, something had to be arranged for the implementation of the pgbs anyway. They were the responsibility of the municipalities, the health insurance companies and the health offices. That would have been the consequence of the legislative amendment anyway. But do you have to link the draw right to that? Would that have been an attractive alternative? Are we going to run the pgbs without a draw right, followed by an operation to introduce the draw right? We can all ask afterwards if that would not have been better, we do not know that, but I wonder if two changes in the same year would have been in the interest of the budget holders. I'm gonna have to doubt that anyway. I will come straight to all the problems that exist, but let us also remember that, given that it had to be changed anyway, it was not attractive to develop an alternative scenario that would not be in the interests of budget holders and that 01-01 was still considered feasible. We have said: better a fallback scenario in which the best possible way is to ensure that payments can be made rather than a kind of change in the course of exchange, the outcome of which is also uncertain and where we do not know where we are coming from at all. That's still a trade-off, isn't it? But it is a trade-off that I believe has been made on reasonable grounds.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u161	Those relapse scenarios turned out not to work either. I'm not asking for a change of course. I ask whether you should not have said: we postpone this decision. Is that even considered?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u162	In no way, not even in the steering committee, has it been discussed 'this is what we need to stop, we need to postpone'. Why not? Because we wanted to ensure that payments could be made, in the interests of the budget holders. We wanted to make sure of that as best we could. So not just invent other systems, but a fallback scenario in which checks are disabled and the system is, as it were, delayed. In fact, you still go a little further on the old foot, namely paying without prior checks. Anything to ensure that payments can be guaranteed, and then catch up later on. That is also a far-reaching decision, as I have informed the Chamber. That also raises questions of legality. Suppose you make a payment that turns out to be wrong afterwards. We have said about this: we take that for granted, because paying is the key.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u163	I have here the report of the general consultation of 8 October 2014. The Secretary of State said in this consultation: up to now I have received signals that it could be technically regulated on 1 January 2015. At that time it was already clear that there were problems. It was problems that could be tackled, it was said. Why did the Secretary of State at that time choose to respond so briefly to questions from the Chamber? Why did he not share his concerns about the introduction of the right of draw with the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u164	Those concerns weren't that big back then. I would rather not stand here and have such a discussion. If at that time we had those concerns, I would have liked to share them fully with you, if only to take you into that process. I can also imagine that, seeing that there were problems afterwards, you asked whether I could not have said to the Chamber earlier that there were problems to be expected. I have tried to say what the state of affairs was on the basis of the information I had. When, in October/November, we started to feel that problems arose, for example with the care agreements, which could lead to payment problems, we said: we need to start full speed with the relapse scenarios. I tried to report this to the Chamber as soon as possible, not only in response to questions from Mrs Keijzer but also in the letter at the end of the year on the motions and commitments. Is that late? Yeah, it's late. That's also a bit based on the insights we got ourselves. However, I have tried to do it to the best of my conscience.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u165	Several relapse scenarios have been developed. Eventually, it wasn't supposed to benefit. I have here the drawing rights programme plan which states that there is a plan B which takes into account the necessary provisions in case the implementation date is postponed. There has therefore been a scenario that has been taken into account. But when I listen to the Secretary of State, I don't really hear that there has been a "go/no go" moment. On paper, I read that a scenario has been developed that takes into account delay, but when I listen to the Secretary of State, I actually hear him say that there was only one option: we will start on 1 January 2015, because that is in the interest of the budget holder. A "go" so, "no go" has actually not been discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u166	With regard to the introduction of the system, the "go/no go" moment was earlier in March. I also mentioned this in my letter to answer questions of Parliament which I believe I sent to the Chamber in November. I indicated that in October/November you do not have a "go/no go" moment with regard to the system. You won't be able to make a change of course. I've also given the considerations. You then have to weigh what is most in the interest of the budget holder: a different scenario or a fallback scenario in which you try to guarantee the payments? We have chosen the latter, on the basis that it would be in the best interest of the budget holder. That is not to say that there would be no problems. A number of Members of Parliament have asked: why did things turn out the way they did? Of course, I have the same question. I don't think you can say that the relapse scenarios didn't work or don't work, because they do. Maybe they're not working enough yet, but they're working. However, there are some reasons that are now coming together. I have just said that the healthcare agreements proved to be an important link. Of course, a kind of gradual planning was foreseen with regard to the entry into those care agreements. In practice, it was found that these care agreements came in mainly in the last months of 2014 and in the first month or months of 2015. This has really led to a very long-acting prop in the information provision. As Mr Potters pointed out, we have also decided to make some last minute changes, for example with regard to the Wlz-indicables. We've done that very consciously with each other. This, of course, also led to changes in data delivery. So that was an important reason. The second important reason was that switching from payment in advance to declaration afterwards as such already resulted in changes in the payment rhythm; let's not forget that. That raised a lot of questions that also led to all kinds of questions to the Social Insurance Bank. Also, the fact that we have put the priority on payments even though it is not yet in the pgb and even though the care agreement has not yet been approved, we were going to pay anyway, as such, led to a lot of legitimate questions from budget holders and caregivers: what exactly is this about, is this true in my portal and is this all going well? This meant that a lot of questions came to the Social Insurance Bank, which also created a accessibility issue. So a few things came together, partly because introduction issues were different than expected and partly because the relapse scenarios of course raised questions again, because priority for paying means that you can't do a number of things. Thus, as I have also noted, you could not tackle all the risks and problems of introduction, although you wanted to avoid them, although they were in the picture and even though you wanted to take measures to do so; you also made sure that those measures were taken. As a result of this accumulation of a number of causes, the care agreements as a prop, as a result of which many accessibility issues and the priority for payments... the total point tax was transferred to the Social Insurance Bank. The Social Insurance Bank was therefore under great pressure. Instead of a guided process of introduction, a huge point tax was introduced at the Social Insurance Bank. The SVB couldn't do much about that either. To this day, the SVB is working really hard to get this all right. This, of course, led to the fact that everything is not going as planned. Of course, I do, because this was precisely what you wanted to avoid, namely that budget holders and caregivers do not receive their money in good time and that they suffer from it. Of course, that's really, really bad. That is why we are so incredibly trying to solve that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u167	Does the Secretary of State now move on to another point? Then I'd like to ask a question. I don't want to interrupt him in the middle of a sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u168	I'm very interested in your question now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u169	The Secretary of State says that we have always had only the interest of the pgb-holders in mind. The picture he sketched, on which we have, of course, had many exchanges of views, is that at some point the train took off and could not be stopped. After that there was mainly damage control; that is still the case. I would like to know from the Secretary of State how he assesses this, indeed with the knowledge of today; we cannot help but look back now. The Secretary of State says that no one has said that there should be a postponement. That possibility had already passed. Then how does he assess the fact that the right of draw was introduced as of 1 January, with all the risks that it would go wrong and that it would become chaos?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u170	On that basis, and on that basis, the relapse scenarios were and are based. It is a little too simple to say, but you could say that we have postponed elements of the right of draw. We have said that the right of draw is based on ex ante checks on the basis of which it would be declared and paid for. In fact, we have said: let us approve these care agreements of our own accord and let us pay them when the budget holder is known, even if they have not yet been approved by the healthcare office or the municipality. In fact, that part of the system "the essence of the draw right" is pre-checking disabled, precisely in order to get the payment rhythm right in. Well, that's the trade-off.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u171	The Chamber has asked for this and has asked for it to last a little longer. The annoying thing is that it is very mildly expressed; it really is a euphemism.. that it does not work enough anyway. The Secretary of State says the relapse scenarios did work. Then we might have reached a different percentage than what has been paid now, but still very many caregivers do not get their money and still there are pgb-holders who do not get the care because their caregivers are not paid. There are still very big problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u172	I also said in my initial response to the audits that there are points of light because payments seem to be coming on steam. 250,000 payments per month are made. 94% of these payments follow within five to ten days. This appears to be based on sampling by the audit service, not on the basis of calculations. We're also seeing a decrease in rapid response. We also see that accessibility improves. However, we are not yet there; that is correct. As long as there are people who experience individually that it is not yet settled for them, such a general story does not help. This also affects me very much because I am not satisfied myself until people feel that they can count on their budget and this is going reasonably well. That's very hard work. I note, however, that the measures taken are effective. Is that enough? No. The Chamber has set a high bar, May 15, to see if it all works out. All efforts are aimed at making that happen. They're working very hard on that. There are points of light, but we're not there yet. Maybe it's okay to go right ahead with that. A number of Members of Parliament have said that there is still a great deal of work to be done. That's right, because in traffic with the Chamber we agreed on a few things. Following the Ellemeet/Dijkstra motion, we agreed to make payments a priority. Of course, that was the first thing that happened. A motion was then tabled to ensure that a number of matters were settled on 15 May. That is also why I have made a number of results agreements with the Social Insurance Bank with a view to this: make sure that you can actually pay claims that are payable within those five to ten days, make sure that the fixed monthly wages are paid, make sure that urgent cases are treated within one to three days, make sure that the accessibility is reasonable, make sure you have an eye and ear for the sounds of the budget holders and ensure proper monitoring of those appointments. In addition, following Mrs Voortman's motion, we said that the rapid response, the emergency payments, should not be removed until we are sure that they are no longer necessary. So they should not be removed prematurely. Those are the efforts that have been made. But it is true that much remains to be done in the context of the recovery plan, which the Court has also received. This means that further adjustments will be made to the system to make it more user-friendly for budget holders. We want to ensure that we no longer need emergency payments, but we will stop doing so only if they are no longer needed. We want to make sure that there are no more automatic approvals because also approvals have been made by the municipalities and the health offices. There will be an execution test on that recovery plan so that we not only write down a few data, but also know if those data are feasible. The Chamber is then proactively informed by me so that we know in advance if a date is not feasible. We have the situation of 15 May, where payments are as well in order as possible, but there is still a great deal of work ahead of us in terms of repairing, improving and making them user-friendly. We will have to work very hard on this in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u173	The Secretary of State just said there was no "go/no go" moment. Actually, he said we couldn't go back. That is why I have two questions. First of all... Is that right? In the continuity plan options are written down, including the simple payment of the budget holders. Second. Did the Secretary of State still have the direction? Or in ordinary human language, was he still in charge? He could have just postponed it. Why didn't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u174	If you are working with each other to ensure that the personal budgets are as well entered into the new system as possible, there are a number of moments in that. With the progress reports you try to identify all risks and take action for them. Then there are two moments. The first is whether it can be introduced and whether 1-1 is feasible. Then you come somewhere in October or November on the basis of the progress report to the question: wait a minute, this goes well enough. Then the time has come for you to ask yourself what alternative you have left. I think it is still a reasonable decision not to say: get rid of it because we are going to try to arrange it in a different way. I still believe that this would not have been in the interests of the budget holders. That is why we have chosen to design these relapse scenarios. If you ask the question in October/November whether the healthcare agreements are going well and whether they lead to stagnation in payments, you should not have the discussion about "go/no go" and do something else. That would really not be in the interests of the budget holders. Then you try to do it as best you can through relapse scenarios. Those scenarios have now entered into force and the first points of light now seem to be visible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u175	Is that right? Wouldn't it have been in the interests of the budget holders to postpone it for a year? Then what happened? Just the same as in 2014, namely paying the pgbs through the municipalities. So again, did the Secretary of State direct, was he in charge, or is he even confronted with this chaos that we are facing now? There is only one thing we can establish: the Secretary of State has done the same. It is a mess. There's no other way to do that when you look at the continuity plan. It lists the most basic things: making proper use of care agreements, electronic messaging, award decisions, maximum rates. It wasn't taken care of. In fact, it was so bad that plans had already been made to change after 1 January. So once again, how did the Secretary of State come to the conclusion that it was better for budget holders to move forward? Was he even in charge at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u176	If I was the boss, Mrs Keijzer can ask me, but perhaps she should ask others. Bosses are sometimes also confronted with developments in reality that were impossible to foresee. We have tried throughout the process of preparation, including with the progress reports, the tests and audits, to provide as best as possible for what could happen. All the risks have been identified: the risks of ICT, the budgets and the introduction, and the question whether the organisation was doing well. We did not do that because it is so nice to collect all these risks, but to get them in the picture so that we could do something with them. It's true that you get all kinds of warnings like: pay attention, this must... There are also reports that say: you have to do this tomorrow, you have to work on this, you can work on it later. We have done this very consciously to really have all the risks in mind. Does that mean you can tackle all the risks and manage them? I'm sure you didn't, and I'm sure you did. Of course, there are always risks that have effects you couldn't foresee. You're gonna have to try to fix it again. When there were signs that it would be good, for example, to strengthen the chain management by VWS, we did so. We have chosen that VWS would chair the steering committee itself in order to ensure that we could do so with parties. In fact, we have strengthened the chain management even further. I believe that we have done the best we can to ensure that it went as well as possible. However, this cannot prevent things from happening that are not good and that you should try to tackle as best you can. It is worthless, but this does not relieve us of the duty to work very hard to get it right. I said that we are working very hard to ensure that we can give the best possible effect to Mrs Dijkstra's motion on 15 May by means of results agreements and non-result agreements with the Social Insurance Bank. That is what we are going to talk about. I'll send the Chamber another letter on that. In my recent letter Members have read that I have asked the Social Insurance Bank for an up-to-date audit based on the situation at the beginning of May so that the figures are as up-to-date as possible. So I will also try to report this to the Chamber around 18 May. At the same time, we are looking at how the recovery plan should be further developed. The chain directors try to do this as best they can in consultation with all parties. In view of the letter of 18 May, I would like to ask the chain directors to give an opinion on the state of play. The Court has not only a judgment of the Social Insurance Bank and VWS, but the chain directors have therefore been able to express their opinion. The Court can then also base its judgment on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u177	Mrs Dijkstra, your last question. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u178	Is this my last question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u179	This is the third one, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u180	I think it's my second, but it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u181	No, it's your third question. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u182	My question to the Secretary of State concerns the recovery plan. The motion that has been adopted on this subject calls for a monthly report. My question is: when can we expect the first report on this? In my contribution I also asked the Secretary of State about an independent test on the audit of the SVB. This has been the case for a while, and the Secretary of State may still be discussing it, but have these figures been determined on a random basis? That 94% is actually only about a very limited number of pgbs. So the question is: wouldn't it be good to test those numbers independently, so that there are no more questions about those numbers?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u183	The first question concerns the progress of the recovery plan. As you have read in my letter, I mentioned a few things from the recovery plan that the chain directors are already working on. I have also mentioned a number of results. The letter sent to the Chamber on 18 May will also include the initial progress report of the recovery plan. We can then do that report every month. So I want to fill that out this way. I wonder if it is necessary to have an independent opinion on the audit of the Social Insurance Bank. There is a report coming from the Court of Auditors, and I think that is a good time to see if we have sufficient confidence that it will work. I now note that there has been a very comprehensive analysis of the lead time. This analysis is not based on calculations, but on findings based on responsible sampling. A number of questions have been asked, and I will come to that. Mrs Keijzer asked: can you even see that? Mrs Leijten asked for that too. It is true that you cannot say at the push of a button: this has come in, this has gone out and this is the lead time. That is also what the Audit Service is indicating, and that is precisely why the Audit Service has said: we are going to do samples in the actually paid declarations, so that we do not draw conclusions on the basis of calculations, but on the basis of what is happening in practice. I have no reason to doubt that. I would point out that the audit took place independently. The Audit Service is also independent. I don't think there's any reason to put a judgment back on it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u184	If you don't mind, I'd like to have one more question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u185	No. The agreement was three interruptions with one question and possibly a follow-up question. So actually...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u186	...I'm done, you say.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u187	That's what you're saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u188	I'm not ready, but okay, we'll take a look.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u189	Mrs Keijzer, this is your third question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u190	I've had it working on me again. Secretary of State says he's given it some thought. So he could go back. Is it then justified to conclude that this Secretary of State did not want to go back, because he likes to be known as the Secretary of State who has implemented all the reforms?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u191	That's what I'm talking about. How do I say that nicely? Not for a second. The introduction of the pgbs is aimed at achieving two goals. The first objective is a legal anchoring of the pgb, so that people who want and can conduct the direction can do the same. The second objective is to combat misuse and fraud, which affects budget holders so much. Those are my goals. My goal at the time of introduction is to ensure that people are paid out as well and as quickly as possible which they are entitled to. That's what I stand for. The question of how people thought about me yesterday or what they think about me today or tomorrow is not in the interests of the budget holder. My objective must be to ensure that these budget holders are served as effectively as possible. I am very sorry that this has not been done so far. That's why I'm working so hard. However, I am not at all concerned with the question of how they feel about me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u192	Still, I'm wondering. All the goals the Secretary of State lists have not been achieved. In fact, he's been extensively warned that it wouldn't work. The goals he just mentioned are all, point by point, listed in the continuity plan as points that are not being realized. In my opinion, the Secretary of State had the idea: I am Martin van Rijn; I will make all these reforms for a moment. The net result is: very sour fruit for all people involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u193	The only part of your reasoning that is true is that I am Martin van Rijn. It is not about the reforms, of course, but about whether we have a good health and long-term care system in the Netherlands. Reforms are needed and bring with them much change. It is certainly important to pay close attention to that. Can I turn it around now? Look at all the documents, correspondence and progress reports. We have tried to get the best possible picture of all the risks that might exist, and we have not done so because it is so much fun to collect risks. We have said to everyone: if you identify risks, warn, because then we can try to take action. It is extremely annoying and annoying that, despite all these measures and relapse scenarios, problems still arise. That is only a huge incentive for me to work hard on it. The fact that we have constantly tried to identify all these risks is a sign that we have been very much aware that it is a really big project, that there are many chain dependencies and that we have to be very careful? We are trying to take the best possible measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u194	It is rather more than "irritant and annoying" that problems occur. And it is quite annoying and annoying that the solutions do not work. You signal problems and come up with solutions for them, but they turn out not to work. Then you'd have to conclude at some point that it's not going to be like this and you can't take care of it like that? The Secretary of State indicated that the Social Insurance Bank has always said that we can continue. I find that very strange, because as Secretary of State, you can say yourself: I cannot take care of it this way; we really need to postpone it now. It's not so weird that you're at least considering that option, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u195	That would mean that you think that postponing the introduction of the personalised budget would not then cause any problems. The fact that we were going to work with various laws and that there were different responsibilities made things different anyway. Mrs Voortman spoke about postponing the introduction of pgbs. There were already pgbs. The municipalities received a budget for daily spending and guidance. The health insurance companies were given the task of ensuring implementation of the pgb scheme, where part of the pgb was covered by the Health Insurance Act and part of the Long-Term Care Act. No matter how you turn it or turn it, you should have done something to arrange for those pgbs to be executed. I asked myself what would be the best way to do that, provided that the budget holder's interest is that there would be no weird hiccups in the system. It is always a trade-off that I am happy to give to Mrs Voortman; I admit that too, but we have tried to make that assessment in view of the importance of the budget holder.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u196	If the introduction of the right of draw had been postponed, at least people would not have had to deal with payment problems. The Secretary of State says it was all very difficult because different laws had been passed. He also said that part of the right to draw was not introduced. It was therefore possible to decide to postpone the introduction. That the Secretary of State didn't even consider that, I blame him.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u197	I just said that's a little too simple to say. I have tried to explain that the introduction of the drawing right as such has been postponed by, as it were, turning off a number of buttons in the system. What's the trekking right? There's a care agreement. It must have been approved. On that basis, there will be declarations. If the budget holder says it's good, it can be paid. It is precisely to ensure that these payments could go on as well as possible that we should leave that part of the drawing right, namely the pre-checks; just do it as it was in 2014 and pay now. This can be seen as postponing the operation of the drawing right system as we had it in mind. That's how we tried to do it. I can't see until now that there's a new chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u198	We'd like to throw you on the wrong foot. How far along are you with your response?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u199	I now come to the specific answer to questions, in so far as they have not been addressed in my general speech. I'm trying to make it quick. I think a lot has already been discussed; that is my assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u200	At 2.30 p.m. there will be a general consultation on youth care, which you should also be present at. I hope I say it that neatly enough. Since this is only the first term, we will have a time problem somewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u201	I am now trying to speed up the questions that have been asked, as far as I do not think they have been raised. I think that Mrs Keijzer's questions concerning the warning and the 'go/no go' and ICT have had. It has asked the specific question whether transport costs can now be declared in a pgb. Yeah, you can. The SVB site contains information about this and an instruction. There's also a declaration form. I still think it's too cumbersome. I agree with Per Balance. It must therefore be further improved and made more user-friendly. Mrs Keijzer has asked if the portal works. The portal's working. Budget holders, municipalities and health offices make use of this, but here too, Per Recht rightly says that user-friendly improvements must be made so that declarations can be processed even better. We have said that the improvements we were actually planning earlier due to the priority of payments have been slightly postponed. That is annoying, but that is the consequences of the priority for payments. But we'll keep working on that. Mrs Keijzer also asked whether all the award decisions have now been completed. The Social Insurance Bank informs me that they are up to date with the processing of the stock granting rights and that they now have a normal working stock. The last point in Mrs Keijzer's contribution was that the system would fight fraud only moderately. She wants to know what's going on. I have also said that the right to draw is a building block, an important building block, but that there are other things that are needed: analyses and ensuring that you keep an eye on whether there are mediation agencies that take a walk with the right to draw or providing care that has not been agreed at all. The right to draw does not cover all the possibilities of fraud, it is part of the package of measures, but it certainly reduces the risks of fraud. I would like to point out that in the 2013 audit, the General Court states that drawing rights limit the financial risk of pgb fraud because the money no longer enters its own account. I agree with Mrs Keijzer that the right to draw is not the solution but an important building block. I have tried extensively to answer Mrs Leijten's questions about the postponement. I also confirm that it has nothing to do with prestige issues. To be honest, I don't have much with that. I have always tried to put the budget holder's position first. I have just as much pain and sorrow from the fact that that does not succeed as the budget holder himself, for whom this is, of course, the worst. That's why I'm working so hard on this. Mrs Leijten asked about the fluctuating work stocks and whether you would not see them go backwards. I note that the current working stock indeed fluctuates but is still within the regular range that can be completed between five and ten days, given the number of declarations to be processed in a month. We will continue to monitor this closely. Mrs Leijten and Mr Van Dijk asked about the budget and the additional costs. Questions have been asked about this before. We have received signals from the SVB that there are additional costs. I asked the Social Insurance Bank to draw up a budget for this. I understand that the Social Insurance Bank, at least the board of directors, would like to establish the budget this week. Then I will also receive and assess it and send it wherever possible to the Chamber at the time when it is provided with an opinion. That's what I'm waiting for from the SVB. Then I come to a number of specific questions from Mrs Voortman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u202	I also asked the Secretary of State why he had the guts to take the sample of 552 declarations, which concluded that 94% of the payments were made within five to ten days, but that the same report, which concluded that no reliable data analysis is actually possible on the basis of the systems, contained in the letter he sent us. Why does he report one and not the other?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u203	Firstly, I say that the report has just been sent to the Chamber and that she can just read it. So that wasn't held back. Secondly, I say that of course you prefer to be able to extract the progress information from the system at the push of a button. That's not true. If you want progress information, you have to do a representative sample on the claims paid or not paid. On that basis, you can draw conclusions. The audit service has done so and on that basis the figures have been collected. That's always the way it is with audits. You'd rather do that at the push of a button, but now we've been looking at how that really works in practice. There are just declarations followed from entry to payment and we've been looking at how that goes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u204	The Secretary of State has been flagged by the Advertising Code Commission. It considered that the advertising ads of the Ministry each presented an incomplete picture. It was also considered that any reference to possible adverse effects was completely absent. I recognize a pattern here. The Secretary of State does the same in his letter. If you take the fact that a sample of 94% is paid on time, but you don't take the fact that the audit doesn't allow an analysis of the lead times, you're in the process of providing incomplete information, whether you're sending a report or not. If you record one in a letter and not the other, then you are working on an incomplete picture sketching. Why is he doing that again?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u205	When the first reports on the lead times appeared, we agreed that there should be an audit. That audit has now taken place. That's what figures come out that I'm presenting, and I'm sending over the audit report. That's not withholding information. I also note that you cannot get the information on lead times out of the system at the press of a button, which is a pity. That is also what the Auditor's Office is indicating, and that is why it has been considered in practice how these payments are going to be made. That is being presented and the Chamber can read how that went. That's completely public. I probably cannot agree with Mrs Leijten on how to do that even more transparently. I'm trying to do that to the best of my conscience. I come to Mrs Voortman's questions. I think that I have now given a comprehensive answer to the questions about information and progress reports. The same applies to questions of postponement. Mrs Voortman asked if I have taken the Chamber as well as possible into account in the progress. At the moment when I felt we had to use those relapse scenarios, I tried to report that to the Chamber as soon as possible. Should I have given more information afterwards? I am very prepared to discuss this. When I felt that this would signal the normal project management in the context of risks, take action and see if it was going well and that we should use those relapse scenarios, I tried to report this to the Chamber as soon as possible. I've done that every time to the best of my conscience. If it went wrong, you can always ask yourself why it happened and whether we could have signaled it better. I ask myself the same question every day. We're gonna have to keep asking ourselves that every day. In any case, I would like to inform the Chamber as well as possible about everything that is relevant. Mrs Dijkstra asked if I was just looking at the green cases. That is by no means the case. If you can pull one thing out of the reports, it's that a lot of warnings and risks have been requested to act as well as possible at that point. Progress reports also show that all measures were targeted precisely at the risks identified. A number of specific questions have been asked. Among other things, what is to be done when budget holders get zero on account of Zvw-pgb's. The agreements made between Zorgverzekerings Nederland, Per Recht and VWS include the conditions for the Zvw-pgb's. Healthcare insurers must therefore check whether the applicant fulfils those conditions. If there is a rejection, it must be duly justified. Then it must also be clear why a pgb may be refused. Due to the obligation of care, appropriate care in kind should be available. By the way, you can object to the decision. I will remind insurers once again. In the end, a pgb scheme has been created with a number of conditions. If someone does not agree with a refusal, there is an objection and appeal. She also asked me when the Health Insurance Act will be legally anchored. This indeed depends on the progress of the legislative proposal. I thought I said earlier that the aim was to send the bill to the Chamber for the summer. I thought I had tried to answer Mrs Gerbrands' questions about the relapse scenarios as well as possible in my first term. She had a specific question about the improvement plan to be reviewed. She's right about that. The M&I audit is about two things, first of all about whether the system is robust enough to make payments as they are currently taking place. The answer to that is: yes, you can. This is also apparent in practice. There are now 250,000 payments per month. On the other hand, there is also the signal of: beware, if you want to improve it, you should not base yourself on the improvement plan as it was, but you must learn lessons from what has happened now. Indeed, the improvement plan needs to be reviewed and an ICT consolidation plan will be drawn up, with additional measures if necessary. So I do want a new plan that reflects these improvements, so that we can make a very good assessment. I want a plan that fits in with the lessons. That should be made this summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u206	This is another very rosy presentation of things. The report compliments the fact that the system is running at all. The fact that things are going so well and that the payments are running, of course, is one point out. Actually, the whole system just gets broken down. And not in the technical field, but in the chain issue. So I already object to that. The question that has remained is the following. The continuity plan looked at the relapse scenarios. The Secretary of State has ignored that. That plan is from November. It advises that, if a number of relapse scenarios are to enter into force, the right of draw should cease to be introduced. The system must then be drawn and gradually introduced. The Secretary of State didn't go into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u207	Continuity plans have already been made at the time. How do you act now to make sure everything goes well? This has led, among other things, to us not to adopt a phased introduction, but to say: do it now on 01-01, then you can do it together. That provided a better guarantee for the introduction. It is good and reasonable to think in advance: what alternatives do we have? You should also see the continuity plan, which eventually led to a different variant, namely the relapse scenario. With regard to ICT, we see that the system can carry the current payments, let me put it neutrally. If you say 'there should not be all kinds of improvements and you should not make a different improvement plan than there is now', I say: that is the signal that is in the report. And so will we.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u208	With all the warnings in advance, we are now almost in May and we still have to work on an improvement programme that will come sometime before the summer. That offers a lot of hope for the budget holders and the care staff. I didn't get an answer to my question about the drop-out scenarios. It says: if there are multiple failure scenarios, it becomes chaos and you have to withdraw the introduction of the right of draw. It's just literally there. I think we are now dealing with multiple relapse scenarios.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u209	We are now dealing with a fallback scenario in which we say that if there is no approved healthcare agreement, this should not lead to the cessation of payments. If there are declarations that cannot be paid within five to ten days, there must be provision for urgent cases. Those are the fallback scenarios that we have set in motion and I said the first results became visible. Light points are beginning to emerge, given the number of declarations processed and the decline of RRTs. Besides, we'll see if we get paid soon. Are we there now? I told you, no, not at all. There is still a lot of work to be done, but I think we can at least see that the first cautious points of light from the fallback scenario are visible. I come to Mrs Dik-Faber's questions. It asked a specific question about Per Balance's recommendations. Some of them relate to communication with budget holders. The SVB has just sent a letter and has written a leaflet for the budget holders, in which they are further informed about the progress of the business, in which Per Balance is closely involved. The newsletter that the budget holders will soon receive also informs them about the recovery actions. Per Balance makes a number of recommendations for the recovery plan, which we will take very seriously. Mr Van Dijk asked a question about the pilots, which first ran well and then didn't. I tried to put that in the header. There has been a strong inhibition in the delivery of care contracts, which as such has caused problems in the processing of grant messages. So it could be that, after it first went well for a while, it got worse again later on and because of the clot at the SVB. Mr Van Dijk asked whether the picture of the lead times was not too bright. That picture is based on a representative sample taken by the audit service. I have already promised to do another audit on behalf of the letter I intend to send around 18 May, so that we can follow up on whether these figures are developing positively. Mr Potters said he liked the fact that until 1 January we tried to tackle the risks as well as possible and asked whether this would be possible after 1 January. They're working on it like crazy. I have reached agreement on this with the SVB to ensure that we can carry out the Dijkstra motion as well as possible. I have already said that I will have a separate audit carried out to see whether these figures are indeed developing in the right direction. I'm just waiting to see that there's a lot of hard work going on. I see lights, but one swallow doesn't make a summer. I will base myself on the audit that is still under way, after which I will be able to inform the Chamber as best I can about the latest figures. The fact that these lights are there gives me hope that we have gone up the road. But that conclusion can only really be drawn from the figures that follow. From my point of view I would like to emphasise that the SVB has not had it easy over the past period and still hasn't had it easy. Work is being carried out to ensure that the problems are solved as effectively as possible. For an important part, the SVB is the last link. It is wrong to blame problems in the chain on the last link, the SVB. That's not true. That is precisely why we have further strengthened the chain management with chain directors, who pay particular attention to what municipalities and health offices will have to do in the near future. For the proper functioning of the chain is an essential condition for the proper functioning of the end station of that chain. That is what all the efforts are now focused on. Mr Krol finds it very unfortunate that this has been the case, and I am still softly expressing myself. That's why I paraphrase his words. I agree. He would have preferred to speak to another secretary of state. I'm sorry about that. In any case, this Secretary of State is doing his utmost to ensure that the problems raised are resolved as effectively as possible. The Chamber and therefore Mr Krol can continue to count on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u210	A number of people are now going to say that their questions have not been answered. Mrs. Keijzer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u211	I've been working on the counterexpertise of M&I/Partners. I have asked whether the Secretary of State, with all the things I have said, like the existing situation has not been taken into account and that the strengthening plan is not included, thinks this is going to work. I also asked what the costs involved are. Does he guarantee that that budget is right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u212	Clear. Would the Secretary of State be able to answer that question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u213	Yes. The report contains two elements. Can the system carry the payments as they are now? The answer to that question is yes. Should another improvement plan be drawn up, given the lessons that can be drawn from what has happened? The answer to that is yes. So that's how we're gonna record it. I've already gone over the costs. In reply to questions put by Mrs Bruins Slot on this subject earlier, I said that the SVB indicated that there were additional costs. We asked the SVB to make a budget. I understand that the Board of Directors of the SVB intends to adopt that budget this week. Then I get her and I can judge her, then I will inform the Chamber as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u214	However, there is already an informal budget which the Secretary of State could have shared with us. But that does not alter the fact that I asked a question about what we were able to read in the NRC yesterday, namely that an orientation of the information on drawing rights was made by a consultancy firm. This orientation was forwarded to the Ministry by the Zorginstituut Nederland on 4 August. How did the Minister react to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u215	That was a whole different piece. We have also asked the Dutch Health Institute to look at the data exchange and information provision that takes place in the context of the general health care registration. The recommendation came out to ensure that there are good data standards if information is to be exchanged. If not, it would be at the expense of the budget holders. That's exactly what we did. Firstly, we have strengthened the direction and secondly, we have agreed on the exchange of data. They're made. This is why data is now being exchanged with the health offices and the municipalities. In the coming period, we will have to continue to optimise this exchange of data.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u216	Very good. We'll go to the second term, if there's a need. I call Mrs Keijzer. All speakers have one and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u217	Mr. Chairman. That's awesome. During the debate I had to think a bit of a merry-go-round, in the sense that sometimes something else appears. That feeling struck me especially when I heard the Secretary of State say that he had not introduced the right to draw. I don't think that's correct. The Wmo states that the right of draw has been introduced. I think the Secretary of State could have done that differently, but he didn't want to. That has become clear today, with all the consequences. I had trouble with the Secretary of State when he said he briefed the Chamber on the relapse scenarios. This time he put the problem not with municipalities and/or budget holders, but with the Chamber. On 17 November, I asked questions about the issues raised by the General Court of Auditors in the VWS budget. These questions have been left by the Secretary of State. Just after mid-January, he finally sent the answer to the Chamber, along with a letter about the introduction of an emergency scenario. Then there was another one and then another one. I have two comments to make on the future. There is a counterexpertise of M&I/Partners with the question of whether we can build on a system that is future-proof. The Secretary of State came very quickly with two meaningless answers, which do not address all the points I have raised here. I shall deal with this in writing. Finally, I asked about the source codes, so the system below. I didn't get one either. But I did get two meaningless answers, starting with something about intellectual property. It's in the SVB. That's where Nestor was built. Another answer was that there's classified information. You can disconnect those two. For today, given my speaking time, I must leave it at that. As far as my group is concerned, the last word on this is far from being said. During the recess, I think I'm going to look into the pieces and take the time to do so. We'll talk again on May 20th.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u218	Mr. Chairman. My group regrets the fact that there has not been a moment of doubt with this Secretary of State about the introduction and is ashamed of that. I've already said that in the first term. 'Cause look at the mess that's in there. I think the repetition of that, that there has actually not been a moment of doubt about the introduction and that postponement has not been considered a contempt of all those people who now have problems and are still without income. There has been a deliberate risk with their lives. When it comes to contempt for Parliament and the late sending of documents, I have said what I think. But what I find even worse is that there is also an understatement of Parliament. Figures included in a letter are rosy, whereas the report actually shows that it is impossible to come from the current systems with reliable figures at all. That's what a secretary of state is supposed to say in his letter, isn't it? "Dear people, I told you earlier that month laborers were paid, I said earlier that 99% of the claims were good, but I couldn't say that, because we don't really know." I'd like to file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the report of the SVB Audit Service on the payment of pgb drawing rights states that the Social Insurance Bank has no reliable insight into the lead times of the declarations of receipt up to and including payment;]] [[noting that the Secretary of State did not mention this in his notice, but did report the results of a marginal sample showing that 94% of budget holders were paid out on time;]] [[concluding that audit studies show that a reliable analysis of the lead times and timely pay-out by the SVB is not possible at present;]] [[calls on the Government not to include any distorted and selective information in the official government documents to the Chamber in order to avoid creating a rosy picture of cabinet policy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25657-163]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u219	Mr. Chairman. When we look back at the debate in the first term, I conclude that the Secretary of State says that the plans for the right of draw have continued, in the interest of the budget holders. Delay hasn't been considered for a moment. That was then at a time when it was apparently a crossing station. But the image remains very strong that something has been set in motion that has been tried with man and power to get that under control, which has actually not been succeeded. We have also found that we actually feel that we should have been informed about this earlier as a Chamber. How exactly did that go? That is why I ask the Secretary of State, as a service to the Chamber in view of the enormous pieces of paper, to receive an extended timeline for the AO of 20 May. I've asked about that before. There has been an overview, but that is very limited. I would like to know at what point in time who took the decision and how the Chamber was informed about it at a time. The Secretary of State is not in favour of an independent test on the SVB audit, aimed at 15 May. I'm not entirely satisfied with that. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Chamber with the Dijkstra c.s. motion (25657, No. 151) stated that the pay-out regime should operate on a regular basis for both the so-called monthly wagers and the caregivers paid on a declaration basis by 15 May 2015 at the latest;]] [[noting that the Court will be informed of the results obtained on 18 May next by means of a new SVB audit;]] [[calls on the Government, the new SVB audit independent.........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Member Pia Dijkstra. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25657-164]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u220	Mr. Chairman. I had begun my contribution in the first term with the announcement that the Secretary of State should be ashamed of himself. I haven't discovered a shred of shame, regret or doubt at the Secretary of State. He had the date of 1 January 2015 in his head, so that had to be done as of 1 January 2015. My group regrets that. The Secretary of State points out that his own direction is important, but if we continue this way, his own direction will soon be completely gone, because then the pgb will no longer exist because it has drowned in his own chaos. I have tabled a motion several times to reverse the right of withdrawal until the system is in order. Now I feel strengthened by about five reports in the pile that we received yesterday. I'm filing my motion for the third time now. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the implementation of the right of draw by the SVB is still causing enormous chaos;]] [[noting that this still has a significant impact on budget holders and caregivers;]] [[Whereas continuity of care and work has become even more at stake;]] [[calls on the Government, immediately and until further notice, to cease the exercise of the right of draw and to re-introduce it only after all systems have been vetted and functioning properly,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Gerbrands. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25657-165]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u221	With this motion, I am right to say that I have no confidence that it will be well arranged on 15 May, nor before the summer or even this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u222	Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State said in his reply at a certain time that he is in as much pain about this as the people who it is about. I assume this was a rather rash statement, because no one can feel as much pain as the pgb carers who don't have their money yet. I want the people who matter to feel taken seriously from now on. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a large group of caregivers providing care through a personalised budget due to payment problems at the time of the introduction of the drawing right have not yet been paid for the care provided by them;]] [[whereas the Secretary of State for VWS is administratively responsible and apologized in February in the Lower House but may not have reached all healthcare providers;]] [[Whereas the problems continue and a very unpleasant situation has arisen for these caregivers;]] [[calls on the Government to send a letter to all healthcare providers who have not yet been paid on behalf of the Secretary of State of the United States of America apologizing for the payment problems and to inform them of what the Secretary of State is doing to resolve the problems as quickly as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Voortman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25657-166]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u223	My second motion concerns the provision of information. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Chamber often has to wait a long time for documents and sometimes receives them less than 24 hours before the start of the debate;]] [[Whereas this does not allow Members of Parliament to prepare themselves properly for a debate and to be obstructed in their duties;]] [[noting that many of these documents are months or even years old;]] [[considers that the "reading" of documents for dispatch takes too much time;]] [[calls on the government to review all government documents on confidentiality by default and to anonymize immediately so that they are immediately ready for disclosure,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Voortman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25657-167]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u224	I repeat that 15 May is really a very important moment. It is not for nothing that we decided in the Dijkstra motion supported in the Chamber as the moment when all payment problems must be resolved. We shall also assess this Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u225	Mr. Chairman. One and a half minutes is short for a second term. Looking back on the debate, I come to three conclusions. The first is that the risks were absolutely in the picture, but the Secretary of State decided to introduce the drawing right because all these risks were "acted' in his words. We are now facing major problems. Does the Secretary of State acknowledge that he made an error of assessment in this regard? My second conclusion is that the "go/no go" moment was in the spring of last year. In autumn, no go was actually no longer on the agenda. The Secretary of State didn't want that in the interests of the budget holders. Now that we have a schedule, a timetable of decision-making, I ask the Secretary of State to list the various alternatives, including postponement. My third conclusion concerns the relapse scenarios. They had to enter into force, but the main relapse scenario, the rapid response team that solves all problems, was created by pressure from the Chamber. The pgb is incredibly important to be able to conduct its own direction. The Secretary of State acknowledges this. I hope that the SVB, the health offices, the health insurance companies and the municipalities also realise how important this is for clients. This is not the last time we talk about this. May 15th is an extremely important date. We will receive a letter on 18 May and we will continue the debate on 20 May.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u226	Mr Otwin van Dijk waives a second term. I call Mr Potters.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u227	Mr. Chairman. There are problems with the pgbs. We have discussed this at length in the first period. First of all, these problems must also be addressed. The Secretary of State is working hard on it and rightly so, because it is ultimately his responsibility to provide the solution. At the heart of the debate is the question: are we as a Chamber well informed and has the Secretary of State acted well? On the basis of the progress reports which have consistently confirmed that 1 January 2015 was feasible, despite all the underlying problems, we can come to that conclusion. This is without prejudice to the fact that the measures taken were found to be unable to prevent problems of introduction. For the VVD it is very clear: the problems have to be solved.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u228	Mr. Chairman. The fact that almost everyone reads the Secretary of State's documents about the budget holders differently than the Secretary of State says he intended them is significant. Apparently, we communicate on different wavelengths. Like a lot of involved budget holders and caregivers, I think it's enough. The next deadline for 50PLUS is also the very last one. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the chaos surrounding the pgb has been going on for months;]] [[Whereas several promises have already been made for a rapid solution;]] [[Whereas the date 15 May 2015 was mentioned as the final date on which the problems were resolved;]] [[invites the Secretary of State, if it appears on 16 May 2015 that this is not the case, to indicate the consequences of this,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25657-168]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u229	I call the Secretary of State. I hope to be able to start work at 2.30 p.m. That is also a message to the official secretaries and the political group secretaries. With everyone's cooperation, we can make it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u230	Mr. Chairman. That's what we're gonna try. Mrs Keijzer asked questions about ICT and source codes. That's information you can't provide so quickly in public. That is also what I indicated in reply to Parliament's questions. If Mrs Keijzer and other MPs would like to hear from the Social Insurance Bank itself about the issues surrounding the source codes and ICT, I would like to arrange for them to be briefed by the Social Insurance Bank. If there's any interest in that, I'd like to hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u231	That was already in the answer to the written questions. However, that is not enough. The purpose of publishing source codes is that you use crowdsourcing and so-called helping hackers to see if your system is good. There is no point in giving this information confidentially to us. If something's confidential, you can't talk about it, at least that's how I always deal with it. The reaction of the Secretary of State is therefore totally inadequate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u232	It's probably me, but I don't quite understand Mrs Keijzer. She asked if she could get those things. I have replied that this information is secret, also because of the reasons she herself has mentioned. Moreover, we are dealing with questions of intellectual property. Nevertheless, I would like to make the offer to have the Chamber further informed. You can make use of this offer or not. I'd like to hear if that's what the Chamber wants. It has been asked whether consideration has been given to not introducing the new system. Mrs Leijten asked if there was any doubt. The starting point wasn't that it had to go on. Mrs Dijkstra asked if a postponement had been considered. I have approached this from the point of view of whether that would be wise in view of the interests of the budget holders. I didn't think it had to go on or anything like that. My consideration was what would be best for the further implementation of the system of pgbs. We have made this movement because we believe that it has a number of advantages, including for the budget holder. If you weigh alternatives, it is also a question of whether they will help. It was not a matter of prestige that it had to continue, but the question was whether the alternative was attractive. I have tried to indicate this in order to answer Mrs Leijten's question as well as possible. She also asked for a timeline to be included in the letter of 20 May. I'm sure I'd like to try that. I would point out that the General Court is also looking at the decision-making process and will make an assessment of it. I would like to wait for that, but I am fine to see if I can tell you about it in the letter I will send to the Chamber on 18 May. I'd like to take that shot. I assume that the Court of Auditors will make a number of comments on this. Then there's the motions. In the first motion, Mrs Leijten asked the government not to include distorted and selective information in all official government documents. I'm trying to inform the Chamber of Honor and Conscience. Perhaps we do not agree on this and perhaps Mrs Leijten has another explanation of that. It's possible. I also sent the underlying report with the letter. Anyone can see what the report means and what the explanation is. The Chamber cannot agree with the interpretation. That's okay, too. As far as I am concerned, however, that is not distorted and selective information. That's why I'm dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u233	The SVB's audit report is written in detail, but the most painful conclusion is not included, namely that the systems do not present a reliable picture at the moment. In fact, there is talk of a striking outcome of the audit, and that is that budget holders are late in submitting their accounts. We have had an interrupting debate on this. The letter summarises an important audit report. On page 3 of that report, the main conclusion is that there is no insight into the lead times of the SVB. I think that the Secretary of State, the government, is too rosy and too one-sided. Can the Secretary of State say that he will now include in his letters the main conclusion, the opening of such a report?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u234	If we send a letter about a report and the report is attached, then we just have a discussion with each other about whether the conclusions are correct. You will draw different conclusions from me. That is what we have a debate on. That's the right thing to do, isn't it? That's one. Two. I keep pointing out that the result of the audit is that the audit service says: we cannot get the flow information automated at the push of a button, and that is why we have taken a representative sample; on that basis we have drawn conclusions. I mention those conclusions in my letter. In my view, you probably do not agree with this, and I have tried to identify the conclusions as objectively as possible. I added the report so that everyone can see what the conclusions are based on. I'm sticking to my explanation of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u235	I'll allow one question per motion, otherwise we'll go through time screaming.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u236	I would like to say that I am very sorry that the Secretary of State has provided a comprehensive explanation of the ICT audit, which has been available since 2 April. That audit was included in a letter containing 77 documents. He knows how imaging works. He also knows how mechanisms work in The Hague. People do read the letter but do not always have time to study the underlying report. He has willingly and knowingly put out an overly rosy image.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u237	Got it. Shall we move on to the next motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u238	Yeah, but not after I tell you I'm resisting this image. I do not have the impression, the illusion or the wish that Mrs Leijten would not read documents sent to the Chamber. I don't have that experience. I appreciate that, too. I'll come to the motion in part No. 164 which calls for another auditor to be included in a new audit. Let's be careful stacking control on control. Nor do I think it is feasible to ask another auditor before 18 May for the audit to be carried out. The Court of Auditors will undoubtedly have an opinion on how these lead times are going to work. We can talk about that further. I also think it is virtually unfeasible, and for that reason I would like to discourage the motion. In the motion in part No. 165 is asked to stop the execution of the drawing right immediately and not to re-enter it until all systems have been vetted. A motion of this kind has already been tabled; twice, in fact, I take up the gestures of Mrs Gerbrands. I've already explained this. I do not think it is wise to stop a process that is now under way and in which the first points of light become visible. That's why I'd like to dissuade the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u239	I don't see the lights. Then where are the lights? Everyone thinks it's not settled by 15 May, not even within a year. Aldermen, experts, the Social Insurance Bank and Per Balance all have doubts, but the Secretary of State sees bright spots. How much longer do we have to wait here before a knot gets cut?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u240	I note that we have made a number of agreements with each other. One of them is: let's give the payments priority. A motion was adopted asking to see whether the priority of payments could be as well designed as possible. They're working on it. Indeed, the date of 15 May was mentioned. Before that, I will have a separate audit carried out. I myself said that we must ensure that payments are as well as possible on 15 May. But that work is far from complete, as you yourself have seen in the recovery plan. Things still need to be changed about the ICT system and so on. It'll still have its lead time. The Chamber has already received the reports. I'll take a performance test on this. I hope to be able to report to the Chamber on 15 May on the state of play with regard to payments. As has been said, the motion has been asked to ensure that this goes as well as possible. There's gonna be a lot of work ahead of us if we want to be so far that the system works as originally intended, so people can look into My PCI and it's user-friendly. This will involve a great deal of work. I did not at all claim that we were finished on 15 May. I am working very hard, together with all chain partners, to ensure that the payment arrangements are designed as well as possible. We will have to spend a great deal of time on the piece of work that has to be done after that, see, among other things, the recovery plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u241	I hear the deadline of May 15th, but I don't see any bright spots.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u242	In the motion in part No. 166 we are asked to send a letter to the caregivers about the payment problems and to inform them of what is being done to solve the problems as well as possible. I have already indicated that I think I am as sorry about the problems experienced by budget holders as Mrs Voortman. In public, I have already apologized for this. Today a letter has also been posted on the site of the SVB. That letter was written together with Per Balance. There are those excuses in there, too. The letter informs the budget holders about the further arrangements regarding payments and recovery. In that sense, I think the motion has already been carried out. That is why I would like to declare the motion superfluous.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u243	We do not know "obligatory."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u244	Then I would advise against the motion, referring to the letter that has been drawn up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u245	That letter won't be sent to the people who it's about. So they have to look at the SVB site for themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u246	That letter will also be sent to the budget holders.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u247	Okay, so the budget holders and the caregivers are getting a letter of apology and a plan for how this is now being handled further.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u248	The budget holders, and with that also their caregivers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u249	No, it's not the same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u250	We'll send a letter to all budget holders. That letter states what we are doing about recovery and what agreements we have made on payments. The apology for the situation as it was is also contained in that letter. May I suggest that you take a look at that letter so that you can see if the request in the motion has been met by now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u251	I'm sure I'll look at that letter, but it's about the people who don't get paid. Those aren't the budget holders, they're the caregivers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u252	But correspondence and responsibility lie with the budget holders. My advice would be: take a look at the letter. I believe that this is very much what you are asking for. In the motion in part No. 167 is asked to assess all government documents by default on confidentiality and to anonymise, so that they are ready for disclosure. I believe that this is a question that we should not be discussing here, because it is a very broad one. Given the incredible amount of government documents, this would also be unfeasible. That is why I would advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u253	Mrs Voortman has one more question on this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u254	I think that today's practice shows that it is not possible to provide that information, but I will continue this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u255	At the request of Mrs Voortman, I propose her motion (25657, No. 167). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u256	In the motion in part No. Mr Krol asked what consequences I would have if the problems were not resolved on 16 May. There's been a motion. We're doing the best we can for this. I have made a number of agreements with the Social Insurance Bank and also with the chain partners. I want to stick to that and I want to report to the Chamber as best I can. I will hear what the Chamber thinks about that in the debate that is taking place on this subject. That is why I would advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u257	It's exactly 2:30 p.m., but we still have 20 seconds to answer some questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u258	On a point of order, I just heard the Secretary of State say in a subtle way that he did not at all claim that the problems will be resolved on 15 May. I would remind him that there is a motion from this Chamber in which it does.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u259	A question from me has not been answered, and it seemed to me to be quite crucial. We have a lot of problems for a lot of people in the country right now. My question to the Secretary of State was whether he would like to acknowledge that he has made an error of assessment by continuing this system. The fact that the Secretary of State does not agree at all is not particularly helpful.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u260	Sorry about that. I thought I'd gone into that in my first term. I have assessed the risks as well as possible and I have taken measures to do so. Then I created a fallback scenario to make sure that the best possible payment could be made. If then problems arise, you can of course find that you have not been able to foresee everything you would like to foresee. Are those errors of assessment? It could be. In any case, I can see that reality has not happened as planned. That's very, very unfortunate and annoying. That is why we have come up with the relapse scenario and a number of measures. I'm just as sorry about this as you are. In that sense, I acknowledge that, too. I'd rather not be here either. I would have preferred to have told the Chamber that the relapse scenarios lead to measures and that everything is going well. That is not the case. That sucks. At the same time, I can see that these relapses are now giving rise to a number of solutions that may have enabled us to find the way up. I'm just gonna hang on to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-4.u261	Tomorrow we will vote on the five remaining motions. Thank you very much to the Secretary of State. He can go straight to his debate on child care, so that he can unwind completely. After the suspension, we will begin the work.
