ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u1	We have been somewhat overwhelmed by the large number of participants in this debate. There are sometimes late registrations. When we planned the debate, there were not as many participants as there are now. Of course, that's always okay, so I'm not gonna say anything about that. I propose that we limit the number of interruptions to two in the first period. Then we can at least have the debate with the government as much as possible. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand of the Party for Animals. Mrs. Ouwehand, I understand it's your birthday today. May I congratulate you on your birthday?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There are probably leprechauns who whispered that to you. Or do you know that from your head of all 150 MPs? Oh, come on. I don't think so. Thank you very much for the congratulations. That's sweet; thank you. Mr. Chairman. Turnip, praise, salsify and leek; this debate is about vegetables. It's actually going pretty well. The Netherlands is good at the cultivation of vegetable plants, so that they become resistant to mildew, for example. There are hundreds of types of potatoes, one of which is suitable for fries, the other for mashed potatoes and another for dry areas. It is incredibly healthy and there is plenty of choice, something for everyone. The Animal Party does not say it very quickly, but we are really proud of this sector. Perhaps that has to do with the fact that we are vegetarians; that could just happen. It is important to ensure this knowledge and skill. It should be the case that the Netherlands also stands for the possibility to use the materials of plants by means of classical machining, with which you ensure that varieties can cross, and that no patents can be applied for. After all, the knowledge we gain from this must be widely available to other growers and other farmers, so that they can continue to work with it. That is what the secretary stands for, together with the Chamber, but we are getting in the way of the European bio-patent directive. The Secretary of State is doing her utmost to thank him for this in order to ensure that the patent directive agreed in Europe does not lead to the loss of this Dutch invention, which is so incredibly important for keeping plant properties available, that our food supply comes into the hands of a few big players. Henry Kissinger said it: "If you control the food supply, you control the people." It would be very bad if Monsanto, Bayer and Syngenta were to decide which varieties are still to be grown and sold. So thank you for the service of the Secretary of State, but the Party for the Animals has taken care of. We would like to hear from the Secretary of State about her efforts to adapt the bio-patent directive in such a way as to ensure that the processing exemption is genuinely guaranteed. Is there anything else we can do as a room? As far as the Party for Animals is concerned, the hot potato in this debate is the choice that the Secretary of State should make between its commitment to guarantee the genuine exemption from processing. We are grateful to her for that and we support her in relation to the negotiations on TTIP. The Americans do not like this at all. The Americans want to be able to patent just about anything. So the question to this cabinet is whether this is going to be a breaking point. As far as the Animal Party is concerned, this debate is really about the choice that the government has to make for this exemption, which the government stands for, the future of our agriculture and the free availability of food crops, which is directly threatened by the stakes on TTIP. I would like to know from the cabinet what the choice will be: processing exemption and the future of our food or a deal with the United States?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u3	Mr. Chairman. Yesterday we held the debate in this Chamber on the invitation to tender of the NS in Limburg. That has taught us an important lesson. Where public interests must be protected by the market and by market players, unethical action is just lurking. We have seen this with the NS in terms of the public interest of good public transport. Today, too, we are talking about a great public interest, namely sufficient genetic variation and the right to free access to plant seeds in order to cultivate them, that is to say, our plant variety right, which contributes to ensuring food security. Partly because of this plant variety right, Dutch breeding companies have been able to do many innovations that benefit society. My group believes it is very important that this public interest should remain well protected. In that light, it is quite unacceptable that large multinational seed companies are now using patent law, or perhaps I should say that they are abusing patent law. More and more natural plant properties that are introduced through crosses and selection into new plant varieties. These are the so-called essentially biological processes. This is contrary to the public interest of free access to source material. Therefore, the relatively simple way in which Monsanto has obtained a patent on broccoli with a long stem gives reason to think. Recently, the European Patent Office's Supreme Court of Appeal ruled that patents remain possible on plant properties introduced into new plant varieties via crosses and selection. So these are patents without any real invention of the seed companies. The Christian Union considers that this is a disproportionate restriction of the plant variety right. How does the Secretary of State judge this ruling? What are the consequences for the position of growers, growers and consumers? What has created this ruling in Europe in the process of achieving a comprehensive exemption for growers? What steps does the Secretary of State intend to take in the run-up to the Presidency next year? Pending the ruling of the Supreme Court, there are already many patent applications on classically glorified vegetables in the pipeline. It is therefore expected that many patents will be granted in the near future. Does the Secretary of State share my concern about this? Can she say whether it is true that more than a hundred patents have been applied for, whereas only twenty have now been granted? What are the consequences if all patents will indeed be granted? Previously, together with the SGP, the ChristenUnion ensured that a study was carried out into the monopoly in the Dutch processing sector. We now see that this monopolisation, through the acquisition of small businesses and through the patenting of natural plant properties, is increasingly a real danger. A few years ago, the study showed that there was a strong concentration in the potato-tomato and paprika sector. What will the Secretary of State do if concentration becomes too strong and there is a real threat of monopoly? What possibilities does the Secretary of State see in competition law to prevent monopoly? Because if public interests are to be caught by the market, there are very clear rules of the game. They have to safeguard those public interests.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u4	Mr. Chairman. I just had lunch. I ate a delicious tomato broccoli salad. I thought those vegetables were innocent, but now they're patented by multinationals like Monsanto and Bayer. These companies claim the natural properties of these vegetables as their invention, as if they were their "property." They make big money with those patents on broccoli and tomatoes. My lunch had an aftertaste; you will understand that, Mr. Chairman. There are psychiatric patients who think they're God. But now there are also multinationals who think they are God. They think they own nature, vegetables such as tomato, peppers and broccoli. They're taking a patent on it like it's a cell phone. Mr President, you will understand that I find it particularly difficult if this happens to the tomato. Because do you think that Monsanto will have a monopoly on our crops? Do you think a broccoli is the same as an iPhone? What does the Secretary of State think about the fact that only multinationals have the means to apply for patents of this kind? The smaller companies do not have the resources to do so. Where psychiatric patients end up in an establishment, multinational companies are given a wide range of jobs by the European judge. How is that possible? If big companies get patent on our food, then we are at the mercy of the gods. Or rather: then we are at the mercy of the multinationals. Do you think that's acceptable, Mr. Chairman? There's only one conclusion. The European bio-patent directive is not good and should be reviewed as soon as possible. The Secretary of State also considers this to be the case, but her efforts have so far yielded little results. Patents on crops are still being applied for. From the broadcast of ZEMBLA, I understood that patent processing is already forbidden. How is that possible? Will the Secretary of State turn the directive into a matter of honour during the Dutch Presidency of the European Union at the beginning of next year? What about initiatives in this direction? My advice: talk to Germany and France and form a coalition. We don't need a new investigation or any other delaying behavior. More than 100 patent applications on crops, such as tomato, are now being examined. We would prefer not to see a patent on the natural properties of plants and animals at all, but if the Secretary of State drags in the full exemption, I am also very satisfied. Because we like the Netherlands have a beautiful plant breeding sector. In 2010, the Veredede Zaken report already showed that the innovation potential of this sector is seriously compromised by all those patents. Already large biotechnology companies in the US are spending more money on lawyers than on plant breeding. We should not want this kind of legalization. It is bad for the sector and for our food supply. There will be countless court cases with the stakes: will the only real inventor of the tomato stand up now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u5	Mr. Chairman. In our society, there is fear of monopolies that threaten food security and biodiversity. All kinds of patents on our food is not acceptable. An apple isn't an Apple. The Dutch family farms in food have increasingly checked. About the largest agri-trader, with a turnover of around 17 billion dollars, the former Dutch company Nidera, was purchased by the Chinese state group COFCO at the end of 2014. Now fear is a bad counselor. But we do ask the Secretary of State what the consequences of takeovers in the Dutch agri-food complex are. What is it doing to remove fear in our society? A united Chamber and a ruler who agrees with the Chamber. That is the starting point in the debates we are having on the extensive exemption for growers. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State what the latest state of affairs is on this point. The ruling of the Supreme Court of the European Patent Office last March was very disappointing. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that this increases the need to establish European rules for a farmer's exemption or limitation of patentability? From the last report I got the feeling that the cabinet is fleeing from an argument that there is still insufficient impact studies and study of the importance. How's that going? When can we expect the results? Because if the Netherlands wants to stay on the ball, the Secretary of State will have to take action with the other Member States. Has the Secretary of State already written a letter to the current Commission in which she advocates the Dutch commitment? Congratulations to today's Mrs Ouwehand on this subject.................................................................................................................................................................................... The plan has been there for a long time. The attack is up to the cabinet. Let us not let fear guide ourselves as a chamber, but let the cabinet check that it does what it has promised. In the Commission and the Council, urgency and the need for freedom of use of plant material should be high on the agenda. I would ask the Secretary of State if she is going to step up her lobby with her European colleagues and whether she is prepared to introduce and discuss the extended exemption for growers at Council level.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u6	Mr Geurts is right to say: Chamberwide. It doesn't happen so often that PvdD and CDA can find each other, but when it happens, the whole Chamber usually agrees. That is the case on this dossier. We appreciate the efforts of the Secretary of State, who we are trying to help and encourage. But in addition to the efforts to adapt the patent directives, the large dark cloud of TTIP also hangs above this file. We are very concerned about the consequences for agriculture. If this TTIP deal goes ahead, everything we do here does not make much sense anymore and the same goes for all the efforts of the Secretary of State. Does the CDA join the Party for Animals in its appeal to the Cabinet to make this a breaking point? If the farmer's exemption, which we all stand for, is not secured, then we cannot agree to TTIP.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u7	Breakpoints and the CDA aren't a good combination, so we won't. At least I don't. I don't think it's wise to name breakpoints. We do agree on the need for good and tough negotiations with America. That is what the European Commission is doing. Under the leadership of the European Commission, a large part of the debate is also being held in the European Parliament. In practice, it will have no effect making this a point right now by saying: then we will stop everything. I'm not saying that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u8	That surprises me a bit, because it is already quite complicated. With the Dutch invention of the breeders' exemption, the plant variety right, we are already running into Europe. Europe is about to negotiate again with the Americans. Mr Geurts isn't that naive, is he? He stands for healthy Dutch agriculture and a strong Dutch breeding sector. Surely TTIP shouldn't be hanging up there like a threatening thunder cloud?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u9	I would like to thank Mrs Ouwehand for saying that we are in front of the sector. This is a fine confirmation of the policy we are trying to implement and try to implement, but let us not confuse a few things. The question at the moment is what we can do in Europe. What can the Netherlands do in Europe? We need to focus on this extensive exemption for growers. Let's not confuse this with the discussion about TTIP. If we manage to achieve this extensive exemption in Europe fairly quickly, it can simply be part of the TTIP negotiations. Let us not wait; let us continue with full steam on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u10	Mr. Chairman. Food is a first need for life, and for that reason alone it is not intended to be owned by a few. It cannot be that, for our food supply, even for part of our food supply, we depend on some giants, on some huge companies in this world. This plays a huge role in patent law. We have recently been confronted with a ruling from the Supreme Court of Appeal of the European Patent Office. After this rather firm and unexpected ruling on the application of European patent law, it is really all hands on deck. The Chamber is almost unanimous on this point, or perhaps completely unanimous on it. We know that the Secretary of State is also going for it, but that does not mean that it is also settled. I see the Secretary of State nodding. I can imagine. Let us be clear: we would very much like to encourage the Secretary of State once again to make the most of a change in European legislation. At the same time, we are asking her to ensure that every effort is made to prevent a multitude of patents on all kinds of food products. More specifically, I would like to know from the Secretary of State what the situation is. Where are we? How long can it take if maximum efforts are made to change EU rules? Should this take years, or could it be in one year? Sometimes the European Union can also be very fast in legislative processes. There are examples of this. In the meantime, are any further legal action possible? Does the European Court still play a role in this? Will the presidency of the Netherlands of the EU perhaps offer an opportunity to speed up the process? Following Mrs Ouwehand, we are concerned that the TTIP story plays in between or can play in between. We have recently been able to see another particularly unpleasant example of this in the case of pesticides. This also seems to me to be a typical thing that can be done through the lobby of the Monsantos of this world, if I may call them that, and through the TTIP process. Can the Secretary of State comment on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u11	Mr. Chairman. I'll take you to World War II, to Leningrad in 1941. While the Nazis besieged the city, a few dozen scientists sat in the Pavlovsk Experimental Station. Until the opening of the seed collection later on on Spitsbergen, lay in Leningrad's world's most famous seed bank. Amidst these vast collections of edible seeds, bags of rice and potatoes, these scientists died of starvation. You might wonder why they didn't just eat that collection. They didn't eat them because they understood the importance of these seeds for the future of the country very well. At least that's how tradition tells us. This is a short historical introduction to emphasise the importance of seeds, their diversity and their free access. The latter, of course, is at the heart of the matter today. Last week, in this Chamber, we debated Roundup, which is produced, among other things, by Monsanto. Now we are talking about applying for food patents by multinationals, with yet another leading role for that huge company, Monsanto. My group is very much in favour of market forces. However, we have learned from evaluation reports that if the market becomes too strong, you must also ensure a strong government. The central question today is, in fact, how do we prevent the monopolisation and patenting of world food production? I would like the Secretary of State to reflect on four points which are somewhat in line with what previous speakers have said. That also makes sense, as we are incredibly in agreement. The first concerns competition. What are national, European, but perhaps also global, possibilities to prevent such cases through competition authorities? My second point concerns creativity. What measures could you take to break that market power a little bit? For example, I would like to mention a little bit in the wild, rather than granting patents to monopolists who have too heavy a market or, by analogy with the supermarkets that are not allowed to dominate in certain regions, rejecting or releasing patents if too high a percentage of a food species comes into one hand. Is this being considered at national or international level? My third point concerns the EU Presidency in 2016 and the biotechnology directives. I think the Secretary of State would like to take this opportunity to raise this point. Can you do that? My fourth point concerns the coalition of the willing. What countries are working one-on-one with the Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u12	I was curious to see whether Mr Schouw and the D66 Group agree with the VVD that the point we are dealing with here relates only to food and not to the patenting of other matters, such as medicines, developments in the chemical industry and otherwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u13	Yes, I agree with the VVD spokesman. I'm just wondering where the question came from. Isn't the title of the debate "applying for food patents"?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u14	Yes, but several parties are also concerned about the fact that patenting of food could mean that it is skipping to the medical and chemical industries. Perhaps this after August 1...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u15	This is of a different category, in which other mechanisms play another role. This is a valuable intervention, but of course it is mainly about food.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u16	Mr. Chairman. It does not happen so often that so many different parties, in my opinion, are even all parties in agreement. You could therefore ask yourself whether this is the most efficient way to debate each other. There was once a debate in which Koos van den Berg, my predecessor at the SGP, spoke on behalf of all the political groups. That doesn't necessarily have to be someone from the SGP; it can also be someone else! However, he was elected because of his knowledge in the field of water politics. I think it is good that we come to the same point of view on this subject, on the basis of different beliefs. I say with Mr Jasper van Dijk that we are against claiming plant properties given by God, our Creator, to humanity. That shouldn't be in companies. Dominance has been mentioned; we share that. Diversity is needed, and this is hampered. I think the Secretary of State feels supported in her approach. We also support her approach. There should be a further patent directive and a broad exemption for growers. Fortunately, the Secretary of State is on that line. So that's not really the problem. The problem is much more that we have been on the same page for years, and I remember a debate five years ago in which we came to that conclusion, but it has not happened in the meantime. So I would like to have a sharp assessment from the Secretary of State whether this is a nice debate that we are having in this Parliament but unfortunately there is still insufficient support or whether, as I hope, she sees room for realising it this time and, if so, whether she can speed it up. Because I think we need to speed things up. The momentum is now also there for, because with this decision-making, if we are not careful, is the fence of the dam. And once the fence's off the dam, it's just gonna get harder. So can the Secretary of State speed up and she estimates that this is realistic? Does she see sufficient opportunities to achieve this? I would also point out that, as far as we are concerned, the Patent Office is abusing our national patent law. That law states that essential biological processes, such as conventional processing, are not subject to patent or its products. The EU Directive states that essential biological processes cannot be patented without specifying or specifying those products. Thus, the Patent Office concludes that the wording in the EU Directive does not refer to the products of essential biological processes. But then I think it's gonna go wrong. In the explanatory statement to our law, it is quite clear that the Netherlands has interpreted the EU directive in such a way that it has also been approved that products are also covered by the proposed exemption. For the sake of clarity, this is explicitly included in the legislative text. Is the Secretary of State going to raise this abuse? Is it possible, for example, to refer this matter to the European Court of Justice?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u17	Mr. Chairman. In the Westland greenhouses 1 kilo of tomatoes is grown with only 4 liters of water, while a traditional tomato species on an open field needs 50 liters of water for the same kilo. This has now been made possible by years of innovation. That is, therefore, innovation in the agricultural sector that we must promote. But how do we do that? By enabling growers on the one hand to recoup their investments and on the other hand to regulate access to raw materials properly. Like other parties in this house, the VVD is concerned about the increasing number of patents in processing. A patent will block access to a particular property for other growers. Just in this sector it is very important that growers can continue with each other's products in order to make even better products in the future. Let it be clear: the VVD is not against patents. These exist and are necessary to prevent the simple copying of an invention, but patents as an instrument do not work best for every sector. As far as we are concerned, the food sector is an example of this. You literally remove the breeding ground for further processing by shielding the entrance for twenty years. How? With the limited exemption we are already on our way and we are happy with that. Properties protected by patents can now be used without authorisation for further processing, but for commercial exploitation, if successful, a licence still needs to be obtained. Such a blockade does not, in the end, have our preference when it comes to food. But how do growers get access to the available source material and can they put it on the market if they really come up with a new crop? Global innovation in that distribution sector must remain possible and is also needed to feed the growing number of mouths on this world, because this planet is not getting bigger. We cannot regulate what we want alone in the Netherlands. The European Patent Convention needs to be amended. The Secretary of State has already promised this in previous debates, and we are grateful to her for that. However, how likely does it think it is to be? I have asked this question before, and the Secretary of State gave me a realistic answer as far as I am concerned, namely that these opportunities are small. I am therefore curious how she looks at the International Licensing Platform, which has been around for over a year. In doing so, access to all patents contained therein shall be granted without discrimination and subject to prior conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u18	I am sincerely pleased that the Chamber is united in this and that the VVD and the Party for Animals are in the same camp on this point. I would like to thank the VVD Group for that, but I would also like to know the following from that group. The negotiation of TTIP is also about intellectual property and the aim is to harmonise the rules as much as possible. The Americans think that almost everything is patentable, including animals, plant properties, you name it. This is therefore a threat to the use of the Secretary of State, who, on behalf of all of us, is trying to amend the bio-patent directive and ensure the exemption of growers. How does the VVD Group see the tension between this aspect of TTIP on the one hand, and the goals that we all want the Secretary of State to achieve in Europe on the other?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u19	I believe that we in this House share a number of goals, although we may be somewhat different in the question of which instruments should be used to secure them. The VVD group thinks it is extremely important that growers can stand on the shoulders of giants and be able to grow further. I think it is a little less relevant whether it is necessary to achieve this by means of an extensive exemption for growers, or whether a closing ILP, the platform I mentioned earlier, is the right way forward. After all, we know that the Secretary of State has told us before that the chances of achieving this extensive exemption are rather limited. I am therefore concerned with the final objective. The ultimate objective must be that there is access to the raw material and that anyone in the world who wants to manufacture it can do so, but also that the people who invest in it can make money from it. The VVD lets you do that, that is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u20	So can the Party for Animals. I think that's how it's arranged, as we all see it here in front of us. If you've made such an invention, you may make money from the market, but the material must be available to other glorifiers. Let me put it this way. The final goal for the VVD is therefore first and foremost, and that is good. Does the VVD think that TTIP should not compromise that goal?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u21	Mrs Ouwehand started her interruption with it. I'm just translating it in such a way that she's not enthusiastic about patenting intellectual property. At least she gave that impression in her introduction. We are not against patenting and protecting intellectual property. However, we consider it important that access to source materials remains for others for further innovations. That is why I also indicated that the food sector is a bit different from, for example, the medical or other sector. However, we leave room for making money from innovations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u22	Mr. Love said that glorifiers may stand on giants' shoulders, but of course it is the other way around. The giants stand on the shoulders of our glorifiers. A company like Monsanto becomes rich with innovations discovered by growers. I'm very sorry about that. I'd like home or calf from Mr. Love. Does he want patents on food or not? Let me make it even more specific: does he want or does he not want patents on plant material?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u23	If it is workable, and if the extended exemption is not possible, then the Secretary of State is going to give us an insight into it, and if we have to deal with the reality that patents exist, not because we want them, but because that is just the reality, then we have to work on a different system. I find it a little faint that Mrs Dikkers used the word choice and the comparison of the giants, because it was absolutely not the giants she meant by that, but it was just the smart ones. They're giants and they're in big and small companies. I stand up for all the glorifiers, big and small, and I think they should all be able to stand on each other's shoulders.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u24	It is nice that colleague De Love clarifies that, because it was indeed not clear to me who those giants would be. However, he still leaves room for patents on food. Would it not be better if we all send out a clear signal here? We do not want patents on plant material used for food. If we show that throughout the EU, we can at least make a strong fist.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u25	According to the historiography, I hope that I have just been told that in the past, in a treaty, the TRIPS Convention, I am looking at the Secretary of State................................................................................................................................................ That was never the intention of the authors of the treaty. That's legalized, which has made it possible. That is the reality we are dealing with. If that extensive exemption can be obtained, that's top. However, I am also a realist and we must also be realistic in politics. The reality is, I hope, that I understood the Secretary of State in the previous debate: there is very little support in Europe to make patenting of plant properties impossible. Then I look back at the goal that we still share. That's that glorifiers, big and small, can stand on each other's shoulders and can continue to grow. That's my priority. Then I find the instrument less relevant.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u26	Mr. Chairman. The Labour Party is proud of the Dutch processing sector. More than 35% of the vegetable seeds used for food production worldwide come from our national growers. It is good to think about that, because that is really something very special. Our growers have been in the process of innovating for years to ensure that their products are improved and resilient, and are thus opening up new markets. That is exactly what we want in the Netherlands: innovation at the top! They do so because they use each other's inventions, where they are protected by the plant variety right. We attach importance to this plant variety right and we are concerned about the power that large companies such as Monsanto and Syngenta, which also have fusion plans, have over our food. The Labour Party believes that a patent on natural properties of plant material cannot and will not yield to market power. We believe that patent legislation should not focus on the natural properties of food and to a large extent deplore the ruling of the EU Supreme Court of Appeal Patent Office, which brings broccoli and tomato under patent law. Like it's a phone or a car! I think that is an undesirable situation, which we condemn and, where possible, combat. Companies that have an interest in patenting our food supply often have large legal departments. The membership list of an organisation such as CIOPORA, an interest club of ornamental and fruit growers lobbying in Brussels for more patents on natural plant and source materials, is largely made up of law firms. That says enough, of course! You may have studied law better than biotechnology today as a breeder, but I would just like to give it to everyone who was planning to become a breeder. We think that is an undesirable matter and are looking for ways to help glorifiers. Would it not be an idea to create a European fund to help growers, for example, who must fight the legal forces of Monsanto or Syngenta? We are not particularly concerned about the means, it is not a question of whether it should be a fund or something else, but we are concerned about the fact that the legal departments of the large companies have a lot of power, manpower and money to settle the legal plea in favour of themselves and to the detriment of the growers. Perhaps the Secretary of State would like to investigate the possibilities of this? We are considering a motion on this point. We are concerned about the future of our food, about the monopoly position of patent holders and about the sandwiches of our growers. I find the way in which companies such as Monsanto act, as we have seen with regard to broccoli and tomato, abject. We call on the Secretary of State to take firm action against this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u27	I would like to take this opportunity to ask a question which I would have liked to ask the Secretary of State. But that had slipped my mind in my own term. I am now, of course, asking Mrs Dikkers. That's the order. The question is about the TTIP Treaty that is currently under negotiation. There are patents in themselves on the agenda. Can I make it clear from Mrs Dikkers' clear plea that in her view it is not the intention of patents on plants and plant parts, on the crops we are talking about, to be part of that treaty?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u28	Mr Van Dijk can make that clear from what I said. I would, of course, like to say that some of the properties of plants are used in the pharmaceutical industry or in other industries. That they are developing innovations that they want to protect through patent law, fine! But innovations that are used for our food supply, for global food supply; no, they should not be patentable, they should not be covered by patent law. I'm also curious to see what the Secretary of State thinks about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u29	That's what I was gonna say. Then we will hear whether the Secretary of State agrees with us and will take action if he so wishes. To be continued!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u30	What does the PvdA Group of the International Licensing Platform, which came into force last year; an instrument applied by many large and small companies to their patents?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u31	Nothing's come out yet. So does colleague De Love. No case has yet been brought. At the moment it is still an empty instrument, because, among other things, Monsanto is not yet on board. That company does not yet want to conform to the agreements that may be made. I do not think it is so much a bad or a rejectable instrument, but it has not yet proved any effectiveness. I would be sorry if we were to use that, while we are also simply fighting for the plant variety right. As far as we're concerned, that battle hasn't been settled yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u32	I understand that, but Mrs Dikkers does not reject it as a possible alternative. Mrs Dikkers' preference is clear, which is clear from her speech, but she does not reject the ILP.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u33	First of all, I would like to try everything possible to achieve exemptions for growers, to maintain a European plant variety right. That is what we really prefer, and I understand that this is also the preference of the VVD Group. Let's wait and see before we put all kinds of new balls in the Christmas tree.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u34	This brought an end to the first term on the part of the Chamber. The Secretary of State would like to prepare himself for the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u35	I shall give the floor to the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs for her first answer. I'll allow up to two interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u36	Mr. Chairman. I think a number of Members were right when they said that we are all on the same side of the line in the debate on the patenting of food. That's how I've experienced it from the start. I am glad to see that we, each from our own motivation, also come to the same point of view. One does that from the thought that what is given of God cannot be handed over to the possession of a business. I could say from my background that you are dealing here with a classic divisional issue, where it really is about that things that are all of us can never be put in the hands of just one individual. I can see a slight happiness from my left corner of the eye. I'm glad to hear that. At the same time, however, as a number of Members have pointed out, we are dealing here with an extremely harsh subject. That is not only because of the great substantive and financial interests involved in this whole story and the legalization that you soon see coming towards you in a file like this. It also has to do with something else. In order to put reality into our hands with the idea that a radish is not a radio and that the apple is something other than the Apple.................................................................................................................................................................................. In other words, as an alternative route, we really need to restrict patent law. I agree with Mr De Love that it is important to be very precise. That is why, in my opinion, we do need one of the reports that some people here thought we did not need. We need them in order to be very precise in the definition of the agenda. What do you prevent from throwing away the baby with the bath water when it comes to innovation and the development of medicines, for example? That will have to be looked at very carefully. For that reason, we really need a number of actions to get stronger in this discussion. I would very much like to say something about what we have already done and what is in the pipeline. The red line in the contributions was how things stand today, with an assessment of the opportunities, a demand for creativity and a response to the current ruling of the European Patent Office's Board of Appeal on patents, which is indeed asking for an acceleration and which shows the urgency of it that we really need to get even stronger than we had planned. Since 2010, of course, action has already been taken in several areas. When I took office, I myself addressed several requests to the European Commission for a revision of the Biotechnology Directive. At the request of the Netherlands, special attention is also paid to the problems of patents and breeders. These requests have also led to the creation of a so-called expert group to prepare a report from the European Commission. We are also aware of a limited processing exemption in the National Patent Act, which entered into force on 1 July last year, due to the efforts of previous Cabinets. A uniform patent package was established in 2013 and the limited processing exemption was also included in that package at Dutch pressure. It has therefore been widely introduced in Europe. I will say in a moment what that means for our legislation and how it relates to the recent legal rulings, because that is what you asked for. At the request of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, vegetable, seed and compensating companies have drawn up a code of conduct on licences. In the end, this led to the International Licensing Platform, which was established in November 2014. That's a significant step. In addition, several reports have been prepared on behalf of my Ministry on the problem of the overlapping of patent and plant variety rights in plant breeding. One of them, Vergeden cases, has already been mentioned, but we also have the plant breeding report from 2012 and the Trojan report. Moreover, it is important for all of us that a report from the WUR on patents relating to natural properties should be published this autumn. This can help us to draw up the position paper for our European colleagues and the possible amendment of European patent law. I will say a few words about SEO's report on the effects of the extended processing exemption. The European Commission's report on the Biotechnology Directive comes as soon as possible. What does this mean for our action? In the broadcast of Zembla, I noted that many of you asked me whether further progress on this dossier could not be a subject for the Dutch Presidency. I said earlier that I do think that is very sensible. The launch of the formal European debate will then be the European Commission's conscious report on the Biotechnology Directive. As I said, the European expert group is working on this. It is expected at the end of this year or early 2016. That coincides exactly with our Presidency. I have therefore called on Commissioner Bienkowska to keep up the momentum. We have also asked the European Commission on several occasions at a high level of public administration to come forward quickly with the report on the Biotechnology Directive and its adaptation. As a result of the above-mentioned cases relating to the ruling of the Appeals Board, I intend to raise this subject under any other business for the Agriculture Council in July or the Competition Council, so that the Commission is also asked through public channels to speed this up. In anticipation of the amendment of the biotechnology directive, we can call on the European Commission to provide a possible alternative explanation of the patentability of classical processing results. We are. For example, we can ask whether the Commission intends to bring the colouring of the directive, its significance, into line with the already adopted Dutch and German patent legislation. We are also preparing a position paper on the desirability of amending European patent law. We are indeed getting support for this. In particular, the German and French colleagues want to give this support, because they are dealing with the same sectors, but other European Member States seem to find it difficult. The subject is a little further away from them. I've pointed this out to you before. At the FAO, I will also raise this issue. I sincerely believe that the ownership of small-holder farmers should be a first point. The FAO must fight for this. Of course, I ask both our own ACM and the European Commission to follow closely the merger plans, which I do see coming through the media. For that we have rules, which we will have to abide by. I have a whole bunch of more technical questions. I'm gonna answer that now. My proposal would then be to go into the steps I intend to take. This debate came a little unexpected to me too, let me put it this way. On 24 June we have a general consultation on biotechnology. I think it is right to say to the Chamber that we will send to the Chamber all the steps that we have already taken, but above all the steps that we are still in the pipeline, on paper. You will then have an action plan on paper and, if the Chamber so wishes, we can, of course, discuss it further.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u37	I appreciate this introduction, but I'm just trying to see if the sense of urgency in Europe is feeling the same as it is here today. My conclusion is actually no. There are only a limited number of countries following the Netherlands. I do not think that the European Commission has taken a firm position either. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u38	Yeah, and that's exactly my concern, too. The recent statements in the cases of broccoli and tomato have been made with me and with you and I think with a lot of others that only increases sense of urgency.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u39	Are we there when we follow all the traces that the Secretary of State described so beautifully? This is a question of thought, you know, that's what the Secretary of State really needs to understand. Should we not, for example, put consumer organisations on the shield and say: our food safety is threatened in the very short term? Shouldn't we go unconventionally to get that sense of urgency among the leaders in Europe?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u40	I would refer to food security rather than food safety. I think it is a good thing that all the actors are moving. That always helps, of course. The Chamber can do that, too. You will probably also be speaking to fellow MEPs, whether or not in Cosac. The Presidency of the permanent committee for European affairs of the Chamber could also, if you so wish, be used to raise this issue with the Member States. We must also note that civil society organisations are not sitting still. Oh, thank God, I'm gonna add it. This also applies to a lot of companies, which are looking carefully at what is happening at the moment. Mr Schouw asked how we prevent monopolisation of food production. That is indeed the essence; that is what this is about. We must ensure that, either by the limited and complete exemption or by limiting patent law as an alternative route. Mr. De Love was just right that you really have to keep that route open. I agree with Mrs Dik Faber that this serves a public interest. If you have a strong market, a strong government must be against it. Mrs Dik-Faber asked whether it was true that more and more patents were being granted. There's a chance. However, the European Patent Office is already much more rigorous in its assessment of patent requirements, namely novelty, inventiveness and applicability. The ruling of the Grand Chamber of Appeal means a step back and, as far as I am concerned, an additional reason for taking action. Mrs Dik-Faber also asked me for a ruling on the verdict. The Grand Chamber of Appeal has given an interim ruling in the broccoli and tomato cases. It might be a good thing to say it's an interim sentence. It's a highly legally motivated interim sentence. It seems primarily based on the European Patent Convention, to which the European Patent Office must adhere when implementing it. In our view, it ignores social aspects and concerns. There is an understanding of this, but it does not lead to any other statement. The EPO has no legislative power. For this reason, the great Board of Appeal is reluctant to give a restrictive interpretation of the Biotechnology Directive. The Netherlands and Germany have done so in their own patent legislation. That was the right thing to do, but it is not yet European in that way. We are now waiting for the final verdict of the Technical Board of Appeal. It has yet to assess whether all other conditions for granting patents have been met. However, the effect of this ruling is that, just for the sake of feeling, the patenting of plant-related inventions has become easier. It makes it all the more urgent, I told you, to take action. Mr Dijkgraaf asked whether the EPO ruling could be referred to the Court of Justice. He already recalled that Dutch legislation is different. Our interpretation is more limited, as is German law. The biotech directive leaves room for different interpretations. The Court of Justice could comment on this. However, a matter must be referred to them. That cannot be done by a Member State, and that is not something I can do. It would also be a long-term matter, because such a procedure takes one to several years. I don't know if we can wait for that. I don't think so, actually. In the context of creative thinking, Mr Grashoff asked what other legal steps could be taken in the meantime. Patents can, of course, be challenged in court. However, I do not wish to proceed with further legalisation, also because of the reason I have just mentioned. It's taking a very long time. It is better to tackle the problem at the root and adjust the rules. That's, in the end, much more effective. That should at least be the biotech directive. We do have support for this from other Member States, I have said that already, but it is not yet an overwhelming majority. There is a great deal to be done for that. Mr Schouw asked if there was another possibility of releasing patents, for example, in case of too high concentrations of ownership in the market. I've been told that's theoretically an option. A compulsory licence may be granted. However, it takes an incredibly long time to achieve this. The expectation is not that it is very promising, apart from the time it takes. Competition authorities may, however, allow this issue to play a role in assessing a merger. It is therefore important to look at this and see whether there is no abuse of power. Mr Van Dijk asked whether I think it is acceptable for multinationals to patent vegetables and that only multinationals can do so. I have already answered the first part of the question in my introduction. However, it has to be noted that it is really not just the multinationals that apply for patents on vegetable properties. Sometimes they're smaller companies. However, my position on this matter has not changed. For the historiography it is important to mention this here. According to the analysis of the patent centre, growers also apply for patent rights. Dutch growers also do so, in order to protect their position in the market. They explain that they prefer not to, but that they do, because at the moment these are the rules of the game they are faced with from others. Then I'll get to the impact study. Mr Geurts asked about the SEO study on the effects of the extended processing exemption. This research consists of a desk study, in-depth interviews and a survey of relevant companies. The study examines the effects of an extended exemption from processing on the plant processing, biotechnology, chemical and pharmaceutical industries and on companies active in the biobased economy. That is exactly what Mr.De Love gave me a very striking impression: you want to ensure that food production, food supply and food safety are secured to the public in such a way that there is free access to it, but there are also inventions that are of great importance and that you want to protect in other adjacent sectors. That takes a lot of precision. If you then make changes to your regulations, you need to see where that change starts, but also where it stops and what effect it has. The report is due in the autumn. This could be a good way of strengthening the debate at European level. Then we might also be able to convince those who have doubts about joining us that we have really thought about the possible disadvantages of a change and that we can possibly come up with a proposal that does justice to that. Mr Geurts asked about the consequences of takeovers in the agro-food complex and what we are doing to remove the concerns that exist about this. Sometimes you see that takeovers also lead to more research being done. That, of course, has everything to do with a balance. How do you prevent monopolies, for example? How do you prevent what's all of us from getting into the hands of just a few of us? That is why it is important that we have the competition authority look very closely at all the movements that are currently taking place. We must also continue to look closely and critically at what is going on about these inventions. Mr. De Love referred to the commercialisation and asked how we can ensure that the growers can take a step further than the limited processing exemption. We are working hard on this, but we must now be able to continue with the expert group's reports. This is an important tool for us to find a way forward in the European weather too. Let's see what's left of the questions. I can skip a lot of things because I've already brought them. Mr Geurts asked about the state of play of the extended processing exemption. It seems to me that it is also good to return to that in the letter. So we have the European track and we actually have a national track, but we also have an international track, the FAO, where we want to set it up and where we are also working to gain global support for our position. I have indeed written a letter, as I say to Mr Geurts, to the Commission, to the new Commissioner. We have almost agreed on reporting on the bio-directive. We have also infallibly indicated that we want an adjustment, so there is not a word of Spanish, you might say. Mr Grashoff asked what the time frame is that we have to take into account. The Commission's report comes at the end of this year. Hopefully, as far as I am concerned during the Dutch Presidency, this will be followed by the political debate on the amendment of the directive. How much longer that will take depends on how this discussion goes. If you are also going to change international treaties, then you can add them again for a long time. That won't be easy. Mr De Love asked me for a more profound appreciation of the ELP. The ELP Vegetables for vegetable crops aims to grant access to biological material protected by a patent quickly and under acceptable conditions, which is fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory. That was, as I said, set up in November 2014 by eleven vegetable processing companies. These include listed companies, family companies from Germany, France, Japan, the Netherlands and Switzerland. It is also open to other interested parties, including scientific institutes. For example, there may be similar platforms for ornamental plants or agricultural plants. There is a public patent register with 123 patents. Companies negotiate bilaterally first. If that doesn't work, they're gonna go to arbitration. I think that is a very good initiative in itself, because we are actually trying to create a workable model that guarantees access to the material independently of the regulations. But, of course, the recent statements put pressure on this matter. That makes it vulnerable to the forerunners; you can also notice this when you speak to people who have participated in it. In this respect, it is important that we move forward with a number of things really quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u41	I heard the Secretary of State say that the length of a discussion on changing European legislation may also depend on amending international treaties. That's news to me. Which treaties would that relate to?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u42	Among other things, the TRIPS Convention. If you want to come to the ideal model, a full breeders' exemption, you will have to work by that route. The alternative is an adaptation of the Bio-Directive, which limits, as it were, the possibility of patents on plant properties. Then you cycle to the same effect, but via the other route. In the ideal model, that is not the route that the Chamber has been advocating for years; I know that from the time when I advocated this as a spokesman. In this case, there are several roads that lead to Rome.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u43	My group actually sees two major risks, and that is what we are always talking about in this debate, namely patenting and monopolisation. On that last point, the Secretary of State said that we have competition law. In the Netherlands, the Authority Consumer & Markt monitors all this well. The Secretary of State said that this really needs to be looked at, but what possibilities are there exactly? I have to confess that I wonder what opportunities there are for applying competition law to international companies. Of course, our ACM has control over Dutch territory, but I also see huge international players here. Is there an international authority that can find any of this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u44	Yes, the European Commission. Of course, he also looks at market power. So he can find something about this too. I think it is right that this issue should also be dealt with in the letter I promised the Chamber for general discussion and that we should go into this a little more detail: what can we do now? It's not like we have new rules. It will therefore be assessed on the basis of current rules and competition rules. The tricky thing about this type of merger is that they often deal with different themes. You think two companies go together, but underneath it's a little more complex: one subject of processing comes from one company and the other subject comes from another company. This does not mean that you have such a market position in advance that you have a majority position again. That is a real matter for lawyers, but I think it would be a good idea to give the Chamber a little more insight into how this works and what we can do on that point. I have already promised that we will, of course, ask the ACM and the European Commission to look into this, not because they are not going to do so, but to indicate the urgency of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u45	I await the letter with interest. Thanks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u46	Mrs Dikkers asked, also in the context of creativity, whether there could be a European fund to help growers to arm themselves against the big boys, the big companies; I think she meant it that way. I understand Mrs Dikkers' concern, but I do not think that a fund is a good instrument for this. My commitment is really much more focused on combating this whole justice almost by pursuing a source policy, namely by changing the rules. Quite apart from the question of whether you find it sympathetic or not sympathetic, it is not that you can just sort this out. After all, who is entitled to it? I think it's gonna be very complicated to do that. In my opinion, the route via crowdfunding from society would be much faster than regulating via European channels. I'm thinking creatively with you, Mrs. Dikkers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u47	Appreciate it. I also appreciate the Secretary of State's commitment. She says: we do it upstairs and we ensure that it is properly arranged in Brussels. But in the meantime, the patenting goes on and Dutch growers, or at least the little boys among them, cannot go along in that stream. They may lose their market or investment. Is the Secretary of State prepared to simply have an inventory of the possibilities that exist to assist these growers? Perhaps this is about legal support or... Well, my creativity is not that great today. I'm looking. How can we help these glorifiers? The shop is just open while there is being remodeled.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u48	Of course, Mr.De Love has already tried to recommend the idea of the International Licensing Platform to you. In this way companies are asked, as it were, to arrange things with each other in the meantime. However, this will be put under pressure when there will be statements from the Supreme Court of Appeal such as the ruling that has been discussed. Such a platform could in itself be a means of ensuring "for the time being" that access to material continues to exist. I think that is one of the things that is of course very important for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u49	Access to material is one of the important issues. Another issue is the need for financial resources to fight the legal battle. These resources are not available to small farmers. That's what I'm worried about. These companies are becoming more susceptible to takeover. They must be in debt. I am in favour of crowdfunding and any form of funding, but I could also imagine that the Secretary of State would find it interesting to think from within the department about the forms of support that could be offered.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u50	My form of support is the policy commitment I have just outlined. We'll bet on that to the best of our ability. However, I cannot now, as it were, think of something to compensate for the costs of other people's legal struggles. I do not think we should want that, and in all honesty I must say that we do not have the money for it either. We just need to be clear about that. Last but not least, I come to Mrs Ouwehand and TTIP. I think it is important to note that the European Commission is negotiating, but also that we have the starting point for an acquis communautaire on this whole issue. That sounds very nice, but what does it mean? As far as I am concerned, it means that the biotech directive that we would like to see is simply leading. At the moment, there is really no choice in the negotiations. So much for my contribution, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u51	The end of the Secretary of State's contribution was suddenly there. Her last sentence was: at the moment it is not on the agenda either. That's what I heard. That is indeed the point on which my group is at the top. This is a controversial treaty. Is the Secretary of State actually saying that patents on crops or on plant or animal properties are not part of those TTIP negotiations?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u52	No, I say very precisely that the so-called acquis communautaire is the starting point in the negotiations. That actually means that the rules currently in force will continue to apply. That's important. However, you and I, together, feel that this regulation is not in order and that it needs to change. If you ask me what my position is, I would say: that Acquis Community should be seen so that we go for the ideal bio-directive and not for the way it is now. But that is the starting point in the negotiations. You say we're on top of it. I can assure you that we all do. This is not just about this issue, but also about animal welfare and a lot of other issues that we consider important in the negotiations on this convention.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u53	That is a very clear and interesting answer. That makes it even more important that we as a Chamber be sharp and give the Secretary of State a little support. After all, standing policy is not what it wants. It would therefore be a good idea to change that, even in the possible future TTIP.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u54	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The starting point for TTIP is that standing policy applies. The starting point for us is that the policy on standing must be a little better than it is now. But that is separate from the TTIP negotiations. I'm trying to answer your question very precisely. The point is that the current bio-directive is the basis for how we work. It is the starting point for the negotiations. I myself, and you too, believe that the current bio-directive is not good enough. We simply have a separate route to ensure that this directive is amended.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u55	The interruption by Mr Van Dijk and the reply by the Secretary of State make me, quite frankly, even more concerned on this point. Because if I understand correctly, this means if I am wrong, the Secretary of State can undoubtedly explain that if TTIP and the pace of adaptation of the bio-directive are to be speeded up in the meantime, at some point there may be an impossibility of adapting that directive.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u56	Well, I don't want to risk that right now, because I'm not the first negotiator on behalf of the Cabinet on TTIP. I'm really afraid to tell you if it works the way you describe it. That's a question for lawyers. I think it would be better if we answered that question at another time. You know the commitment, namely that standing policy is the starting point. That's what it's about. I do not have the impression that there will then be an additional blockade. But once again, I must explain that in the letter that has already been promised. I'd really like to be able to spar with my people about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u57	You mean the letter coming from next week's Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u58	No, that's a letter...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u59	That was a previous debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u60	That was indeed the previous debate. This is a letter to the House following the general consultation on biotechnology on 24 June.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u61	I can only very warmly invite the Secretary of State to elaborate on this, because I feel that there is a possible precedent here for a lot of things.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u62	I don't think that's too bad. I hope you're wrong. But let's just wait and see the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u63	Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, despite the good ambitions and commitment of the Secretary of State, TTIP hangs like a thunder cloud above something that we don't just want to get a little better, namely the bio-patent directive. It now allows companies like Monsanto and Syngenta to apply for patents on broccoli, peppers and tomatoes. We do not want it a little better, we want the Dutch plant variety right to become the norm. TTIP is directly based on the maximum achievable and keeping the rules as they are, but tightening will never happen again. That is why we need to strike a picket pole: we do not want this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the plant variety right enables entrepreneurs to recoup their investments in research without hindering further innovation;]] [[noting that patenting in the plant breeding sector hampers innovation and poses a threat to world food supply;]] [[noting that negotiations on an EU-US Free Trade Agreement (TTIP) focusing on regulatory harmonisation include intellectual property;]] [[declares that the plant variety right should not be compromised by TTIP;]] [[calls on the Government to express this view to the European Commission,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27428-302]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u64	Mr. Chairman. I can be very short. I thank the Secretary of State for all the answers she has given. A number of points are still being examined. The answers to this will be given in a letter to the committee meeting on 23 June. Let us then continue the debate together. Many relevant points have been raised today. I need the information in the letter to discuss it further and take steps. So I look forward to the debate on the 24th.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u65	Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. The aim of the first motion is to make the adaptation of the directive a matter of honour for the Presidency. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the report on "Glorified Cases" already showed in 2010 that the innovative capacity of the plant breeding sector is at risk due to the current design of the European Biopatent Directive and therefore needs to be revised;]] [[Calls on the Government to make the revision of the European Biopatent Directive a priority for the Dutch Presidency of the Council of the European Union in the first half of 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27428-303]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u66	My second motion refers to the last interrupting debate on TTIP. The Secretary of State says that the current policy is not the policy we want it to be, but that it is a commitment to the TTIP negotiations. That motivates me to file this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[points out that it is unacceptable for patents on crops or on plant or animal properties to become part of the TTIP negotiations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27428-304]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u67	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for her answers. I have a feeling, especially after this discussion, that she is getting very hard on the subject. If we do not make progress on the processing exemption in Europe, then we are no longer at the ball. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas action must be taken if the Netherlands is to achieve an extended exemption from processing;]] [[calls on the government to step up the European lobby;]] [[Invites the Government to submit and discuss at Council level a comprehensive processing exemption proposal by the end of 2015,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Geurts. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27428-305]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u68	Mr. Chairman. Although there were few opposing views in this debate, which is quite remarkable in this Chamber, I do feel that it was useful to discuss it with each other this afternoon. The urgency is very clear. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for all the answers and once again encourage her to make the most of them. I would like to draw your attention to one very specific point. Despite the words of the Secretary of State, I am deeply concerned about the coincidence of the TTIP processes and the change in the directive. In this respect, I will wholeheartedly support Mr Ouwehand's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u69	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for her reply. We are dealing with a very serious problem. I'm a cheerful person, but I don't have the idea. I'm just saying a little serious. We are so terribly dependent on conflicting interests and all kinds of key figures. I'm afraid it's becoming a paper tiger. I do not see a clear position of the European Commission in this dossier. I don't see the subject on the Prime Minister's plate either. That's actually a condition for moving forward. Nor do I see any real acceleration in adjusting the TRIPS Agreement. We can talk about that lovingly, but I don't see where it's gonna happen. Meanwhile, I do see a huge increase in all kinds of products that are patented. I ask the Secretary of State to come up with a clear roadmap and a clear timetable for the purposes of the consultation shortly to deal with the TRIPs story. Maybe we should seriously consider whether it is feasible or not. There was just an interruption about TTIP and TRIPs. I would like to get a clear answer from the Secretary of State on this. Of course, you can do that in the letter. Mr President, thank you for the opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u70	Mr Dijkgraaf refused to continue the debate because he had to be somewhere else. I shall therefore give the floor to Mr De Love.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u71	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the clear answer and the promised documents that will reach us in the coming year. In response to my questions, the Secretary of State spoke about the International Licensing Platform. I would like to make another suggestion to her on that point. We know that not all major parties, national and international, are participating in this platform. However, this platform can be an alternative if all the efforts of the Secretary of State in the Netherlands do not achieve the desired result. Is the Secretary of State open to joining those companies that are not currently participating in that platform, in order to strengthen the importance of the platform and persuade companies to participate in it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u72	Mr. Chairman. The Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation has a fund to help international NGOs when they need legal assistance in the fight against companies. Analogously, I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas Dutch growers and growers play an important role in the international processing of plants and use the plant variety right for the protection of their invention to the full satisfaction of the persons concerned;]] [[noting that companies such as Monsanto mainly use patent legislation to patent plant properties and that, in the event of doubt as to the ownership of plant material, they are competing legally;]] [[noting that smaller processors often seem to have the right on their side, but have no financial means to prove that to a court;]] [[Considering that this is a disproportionate burden for many growers, but that support to these companies may be seen as State aid by a public fund;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate the possibilities, within the rules on state aid, of a fund to which growers can rely if they lack financial resources when they have to compete with large patent holders and to inform the Court of the results of this investigation by this autumn at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dikkers, Mr Ouwehand and Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27428-306]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u73	This brings to an end the second term of office. The Secretary of State will now be preparing for her answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u74	I shall give the floor to the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs for her second answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u75	Mr. Chairman. I will give my opinion on the motions tabled and I will also answer a single question that has been put. As far as a number of motions are concerned, which I would like to comment on by letter, my question to the authors is to wait for that letter. Around the TTIP debate almost a kind of conspiracy is seen. I do not think this is necessary, but I would like to have the opportunity to put it more precisely on paper. For this reason, I shall ask Mrs Ouwehand to do so later on to the authors of the other motions on which I am also referring to request that her motion be held. She knows my bet. I believe that the plant variety right should be extended rather than further restricted. That is the commitment we have had from the cabinet for a long time. I will explain the relationship that may exist with the TTIP Convention and the negotiations on it in the letter. I will also have to discuss it with my colleague from Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation. My kind request to Mrs Ouwehand is therefore to give me at least the opportunity to go into more detail in the letter and to hold the motion pending it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u76	I'm a little hesitant. We often ask for information from the cabinet, but what exactly is the stake in TTIP and how it is going to work is quite clear to me. The Secretary of State said it himself: the existing rules are committed. We do not think the existing rules are good enough. It is already taking a great deal of effort to draw that European to the level that we would like to see. In addition, the existing rules are only used in the TTIP negotiations. So we're down by two. That's clear to me. I'd like us to start hitting picket posts. Fortunately, the PvdA Group has already done so on a number of points and the Chamber is constantly asking for them. So that's what this motion is about. I am happy to wait for the letter, but the Secretary of State agrees with me that there is a commitment and not a guarantee of results, with the existing rules leading? This while we are not satisfied with the existing rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u77	Yes, but the question of what exactly is in it and at which level of aggregation it might be discussed in TTIP is really very relevant to the question of whether it has a real relationship with today's discussion. Sometimes reality is just a bit more complicated than you might think. I think it would be a good idea to write that out for you. You know my commitment; I would like to change that bio-directive. That's what we're going for. So I don't think there's any discussion between us about that. With regard to the question of whether this may or may not affect the negotiations, my response is: just give me the opportunity to take it with me. You will get a good text on this and if you do not think it is enough or if you think it is all going wrong, then that motion of yours is there. Then the Chamber will naturally give its opinion on that and I will, of course, do so. This is my procedural proposal. If that is not the case, I would advise against the motion for procedural reasons, not because of its content.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u78	Of course, I could feel it coming. There's gonna be a letter. Is that going to be a joint letter from you and the Foreign Trade Minister and when exactly is it coming?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u79	Yes or partly on behalf of, but at least I'm going to stop by there. You know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u80	And when's that letter coming?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u81	For June 24th.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u82	For June 24th, because then it's AO. The motion may then be put to the vote...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u83	Before the summer recess.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u84	...for the summer recess. Mrs. Ouwehand, does this mean you're holding your motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u85	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u86	At the request of Mrs Ouwehand, I propose her motion (27428, No. 302), as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 302/1999. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u87	I have the impression that the Secretary of State is going to say the same thing about my motion. That is why, Mr President, I would like to suggest that the votes should take place after receipt of that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u88	Unfortunately, for Mr Van Dijk, I had another opinion in store. I'll explain why in a minute. Sorry. First of all, I'd like to come to his motion on part number one. 303. I do not need a motion from Mr Van Dijk to make this an important part of the Dutch Presidency. I've already announced that myself. Now he's actually asking me if I can embrace a motion that I myself took the initiative on. I myself was the first to bring this out in this way. I have also spent some time in the Chamber myself, and I do not think such motions are the strongest. I advise against this motion, because I do not need this encouragement. Mr Van Dijk knows where I stand, I also know where he stands. It's kind of nice to be on the same side for once. Let's keep it up. Then we shouldn't judge this, I'd say, but then he should just support me. That'd be nice. Then I come to the third motion, the motion in part No. 304. Unfortunately, I must also discourage them, but for reasons of substance. I'll explain why. If we do not get the route of the full exemption from cultivation soon, we may take the alternative route, namely the adaptation of the bio directive and the limitation of patents, as the starting point. In his motion, Mr Van Dijk writes: there should never be a patent at all. With that, he is already completely closing that route, while at the moment it is perhaps a route that should eventually be taken, if we do not get through the ideal model of the full exemption. I am not sure, but I think Mr Van Dijk means to express his preference. I share that preference, but then all emergency exits are closed. I don't think you should. For that reason, I would not like it, even after the letter or at a later date, if the Chamber shuts down that emergency exit in advance or actually makes that route impossible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u89	I'll start with the motion in part No. 303. The Secretary of State says: fantastic, great, I had the idea myself and I'm going to carry her out. So I'm withdrawing that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u90	Since the Jasper van Dijk motion (No ) has been withdrawn, has ceased to be the subject of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u91	Thank you. Just for the record, there's applause. For the motion in part No. 304 is more complicated. Firstly, I note that it is a statement to the Chamber. It is, of course, very nice for the Secretary of State to give an opinion on this, but it is up to the Chamber to judge it. The Secretary of State does give an interesting addition to it. I would like to consider that. She will hear from me later; perhaps I will amend the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u92	I'll wait and see. Moreover, it is always up to the cabinet to give an appreciation of a motion. I therefore say to Mr Van Dijk what he is doing with this in my view, and I think that is very unwise. Mr Geurts' motion for a resolution 305 I must also advise against. I agree with the thrust and it is also my priority, but I cannot make a proposal myself. That is the exclusive mandate of the European Commission, so the wording of the text is already incorrect. In this way this motion cannot be given a favourable opinion, so I advise against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u93	I'm trying to find the way in and I can't. Does the Secretary of State have a different text proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u94	I am not with Mr Geurts in the group!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u95	That's a nice joke, but the Secretary of State understands the urgency. I also said it in my contribution: the Netherlands must remain at the ball. If we're not careful, we'll lose it. At what time is the Secretary of State going to submit a proposal? It can submit a proposal, it can propose.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u96	Once again, I said to Mr Geurts that there was no difference of opinion on that and I did not say anything which could prove to the contrary that we should remain at the ball. We are writing a position paper this autumn, we are putting pressure on the European Commission, we are doing our utmost to at least accelerate the debate. I am a little more optimistic than Mr Schouw. Whether this leads to the desired outcome in the end cannot be predicted. Mr Geurts will be given all the urgency he asks for. Then his motion is a bit the same as Mr Van Dijk's. I don't need a motion for that, because with unnecessary motions you can dampen the canal. I don't think we should.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u97	I understand what the Secretary of State says, but we keep making reports. At some point, we just have to push through. Time goes on, and we see the patents and everything we've discussed this afternoon moving on as well. Will the Secretary of State make it clear when she thinks: that's enough, now I want home or calf? Then we know that as a room too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u98	The road map requested by Mr Schouw, the whole idea of a timetabled roadmap, is exactly the thought behind the letter you will receive from me. Then Mr Geurts can assess whether we are sufficiently on top of it. After that, Mr Geurts can always table the motion, but he will indeed have to make a minor amendment to the text, because it is the Commission that is submitting a proposal. Then we probably won't agree either, but we'll see about that. This one just doesn't add up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u99	I'll hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u100	At the request of Mr Geurts, I propose his motion (27428, No. 305). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u101	So the answer to Mr Schouw's question is yes. Room gets that road map. The answer to Mr De Love's question is also yes. I'd like to do as he asks. I'm willing to seduce non-participant companies to do so. I would also ask Mrs Dikkers to hold her motion. I shall go into this in more detail in the letter. Then I'll also tell you what possibilities there are and what they are. Otherwise, I shall also have to make the motion in part No. 306 really dissuade. 'Cause I don't have that money for no reason. It's actually an uncovered check. It can't be. I would just like to comment on that in the letter. Then we can see where we stand after that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u102	The motion calls for an investigation into the possibility. I am fine with the Secretary of State taking that opportunity in the letter. I would like to suggest to her that we contact the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation, who has such a fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u103	Yeah, he's got a lot more money, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u104	I get that. I asked for a European fund. I know that there are also agricultural funds in Europe. I just want to look at the possibilities in that area. I would like to continue the motion, but I would like to see the Secretary of State, in consultation with the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development, look at the possibilities for such a fund which is not contrary to the rules of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u105	Maybe we can use the existing NGO fund? We'll discuss that then.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u106	The Secretary of State will return to that in her letter. Mrs. Dikkers, does this mean you're holding the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u107	That is indeed the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u108	At the request of Mrs Dikkers, I propose her motion (27428, No. 306), as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 306/1999 of the European Parliament and of the Council. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u109	I'm glad the Secretary of State is going to seduce the companies that aren't yet participating in the ILP. Can I make that a little more concrete by asking her to confirm that she will have a personal conversation with these companies?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u110	Yeah, that's just not gonna work out for the summer anymore. I'll tell you what. But I'm not gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u111	I have another request on behalf of the Chamber. The major general consultation will take place on 24 June. You promised me a letter. The Chamber would very much like to receive that letter in good time, so that the spokesmen can also take up the content before the AO takes place.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u112	I got that right.
