ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u1	I would like to welcome all those present in the Chamber to this debate, the plenary conclusion of the debate on the JHA Council, the I&A part, which has been held in a committee room until quite recently today. I would like to welcome the Prime Minister. He wasn't present at that general meeting. I would also like to welcome the Secretary of State for Security and Justice, who was present. This is a plenary session. This means that there will be a debate in one term. Speaking time is four minutes per group, including reading the motions. I give the floor as the first speaker to Mr Pechtold of D66. The Prime Minister really has to leave at 3:00. I'll give it to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. I had really hoped to clarify the Dutch position during the debate this morning, but that hope proved to be in vain. Perhaps the Prime Minister could shed some light on this. How is the Netherlands going with the JHA Council next week? Does the Netherlands agree to receive 2.047 persons, yes or no? One coalition party assumes that's the case, the other doesn't. The largest coalition party even calls the migration agenda disappointing. What consequences does this have? Will the Prime Minister continue, even though he doesn't have the support of his own party? To what extent does the cabinet's participation in resettlement depend on other countries? How many countries should participate before the Netherlands joins? Who has already called the Prime Minister to persuade Member States to participate in resettlement? Or is the Netherlands leaning back: waiting for the others to withdraw? Can the Prime Minister also clarify: are the proposed 732 resettlement at the top of the 500 we have always done? According to the Secretary of State, a comprehensive mandate for Frontex to save more lives is "a meeting circus." Does the Prime Minister share that view? And why does this not apply to the UN Security Council mandate to authorise a military mission? In order at least to clarify the position of the Chamber, I shall submit five motions in the event of a speed train.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u3	Before you read these motions, let's go to the interruption first. Mrs. Chicken, I'd like a quick question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u4	I have a question for D66 on resettlement. I have heard Mr Pechtold say both in Pauw and in the week in a number of media that he assumes that resettlement for the Netherlands means that the Netherlands needs to do less. Before he asks a question to the cabinet, it is useful that he himself gives the answer to that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u5	That's very clear. I think I was earlier than the cabinet, in which it took weeks for me to still not take a stand. The Netherlands is now receiving many refugees, and that is uncontrolled. As a result, Germany and the Netherlands also have a lot of social pressure in this whole discussion. You can also see the panic in the coalition when it comes to this issue. With regard to a future arrangement, I indicated that it could be less for the Netherlands. Based on a breakdown based on population composition, unemployment, population density and so on, it would be less for the Netherlands than in the past. It was even checked by NRC Checkt so hot, I believe, and was placed as "true." But the numbers that are now coming out of the key, I understand, just like you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u6	Again, very clearly: is D66 for more or just for less? A simple yes or no, or a "more" or "less" is enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u7	We're not "less, less, less." We are in favour of the current key proposed by the European Union, so 2.047 and what is it... It's too bad we have to work with that kind of exact numbers. I'm coming up on my motions, in high-speed train. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the European Commission has proposed that the Netherlands resume 732 vulnerable refugees;]] [[Whereas the Netherlands has a policy of inviting 500 vulnerable refugees each year;]] [[calls on the Government to state that the 732 invite vulnerable refugees to rise above the 500 annual invited refugees,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the detailed proposals of the European Commission contain concrete proposals on the relocation and resettlement of asylum seekers;]] [[Whereas fair distribution of asylum seekers is of great importance in order to reduce pressure on the southern Member States;]] [[calls on the Government to explicitly support the European Commission's current proposals on relocation and resettlement of asylum seekers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the European Commission is proposing to triple the rescue capacity in the Mediterranean Sea;]] [[Whereas the current operation has a more limited mandate than the Italian rescue operation Mare Nostrum, which saved many lives;]] [[calls on the Government to promote an extension of the mandate of rescue operations at sea,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Council decided on a military mission to undermine the "business model" of human traffickers;]] [[Whereas it is unclear how this mission will achieve its objective;]] [[calls on the Government to identify in concrete terms what the "business model" of human traffickers looks like and in what form a military mission can make a concrete contribution to undermining it;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Chamber of the matter,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Notes that in their Regional Refugee and Resilience Plan, the United Nations calls for more structural support for the region in and around Syria;]] [[noting that countries such as Jordan and Lebanon are under severe pressure from the huge numbers of refugees they are receiving;]] [[calls on the Government, in addition to the current contributions to emergency aid, to provide more structural support to Jordan and Lebanon by specifically deploying the 50 million from, among other things, the Dutch Good Growth Fund,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Pechtold. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32317-286]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Pechtold. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32317-287]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Pechtold. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32317-288]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Pechtold. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32317-289]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Pechtold. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32317-290]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u8	Mr. Chairman. A solution must be found in the short term to the excessive pressure of refugees in some of the southern Member States of the European Union, in particular Greece and Italy. That won't take any further delay. It is to be commended that the European Commission has put forward a concrete plan. Today's key question is: does our cabinet wholeheartedly support this plan and is our cabinet prepared to make a full and active commitment to the success of that plan? That is the central question. This morning, I noticed that this question is still missing in the end. I have had to observe that the Secretary of State for Security and Justice is talking with flour and that there is still a lot of discussion about all kinds of conditions, conditionality, a distribution key and that sort of thing. I note that long talk about these matters cannot be discussed. It must now be possible to take decisions at European Union level in a short battle. In any case, this should not depend on the Netherlands. The Netherlands, the cabinet, must stand on the right side of the line and show its humane face. The Netherlands must ensure that in this situation the need is alleviated and show solidarity with the fellow Member States. I want to hear from the Prime Minister whether this is the case and whether he is going for it. I specifically ask him whether he is prepared to accept the key that exists now and not try to get rid of it in some sort of cow business. It should not be about taking over a few hundred refugees from Greece or Italy more or less. The importance of this issue is so great that, of course, it would be preferable to adopt European decision-making in the Council by qualified majority in accordance with normal practice. GroenLinks considers it important that, if necessary, a leading group of EU countries, which is already working together, should be prepared to implement the relocation plan as suggested by the European Commission. I shall table a motion to that effect. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a group of Member States has expressed their wish not to participate in the European Commission's proposals on the relocation of refugees from Italy and Greece;]] [[Whereas the pressure on reception capacity for refugees in Italy and Greece is such that the absence of a European solution is not an option;]] [[calls on the Government, if necessary, to implement the European Commission's relocation plan with a leading group of EU countries,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32317-291]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u9	Madam President. Brussels wants to push thousands of additional asylum seekers down our throats. They call it "redistribution" or "relocation," but it simply means more asylum seekers, more lucky seekers and more Islam in the Netherlands. And more terrorists as well, because ISIS has already announced that the terrorists will simply be sent along with the boats. In Brussels they have gone crazy and the slaves in The Hague simply agree with some ifs and buts. How the hell is that possible? Last year there was a Dutch asylum record with 24,000 asylum seekers. But that is not enough: the cabinet and Mr Rutte want a few more thousand on top. Every asylum seeker costs the Dutch taxpayer about €36,000 a year. Last year alone, all asylum seekers cost Dutch taxpayers EUR 876 million. These are the choices made by Prime Minister Rutte: hundreds of millions for asylum seekers, but the care for the elderly in the Netherlands is being broken down. In a few weeks more money will undoubtedly go to Greece, but the Dutch may face a higher AOW age and a shorter WW. Free care for asylum seekers and also priority for a social housing, but the Dutch who are waiting for a home, we can leave this Prime Minister in the cold a little longer. Prime Minister Rutte calls himself the Prime Minister of all Dutchmen, but he is the king of asylum seekers, the benefactor of Africa and Greece and the wrecker of care in the Netherlands. The Netherlands is ruled by an elite who no longer has his priorities in a row. The cabinet is completely detached from reality. No one in the Netherlands, except for the lost D66s, wants this plan from the European Commission. What needs to be done is not to allow any asylum seeker in the Netherlands. None. Enough is enough. We already have plenty of asylum seekers in the Netherlands. Send them all back, like Australia, a decent country, does. Send them back. Send them back safely, but send them back. Let those wealthy Arab countries, such as Saudi Arabia and the Gulf States, which are doing nothing at all now, receive these people or pay for their shelter in North Africa. It's finally time we stopped giving away our country. We must stop this open border policy and let half the world into the Netherlands. We have to stop giving away our money. Billions of our money go with absurd plans like this, every year through development aid to Africa, to asylum seekers and to the foreign elite from Brussels. I say to the Prime Minister: stop it, spend that money here in the Netherlands, spend that money on our own people. Those are the people we represent here, those are the people who elected us, those are the people we stand for here. They deserve our priority, not the people of Africa. Enough is enough. Into the trash bin with the European Commission's plan. No more asylum seekers. That's why I'm gonna end with the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to reject the European Commission's relocation and resettlement plan and to ensure that no asylum seeker is admitted to the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32317-292]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u10	Mr. Chairman. The solution is simple: sending back boats with asylum seekers, forcing them back, creating safe ports and putting the European Commission's plan in the trash. That's why I have the next three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the large flow of asylum is disruptive and the infiltration of IS terrorists also poses a threat to security in European countries;]] [[calls on the Government to commit itself to military engagement around the Libyan coast, not to receive asylum seekers but to be stopped and returned,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government, within the European framework, to actively promote the view that a UN mandate is desirable but not necessary for military action against human smugglers and their boats,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the EU wants to impose a quota on sovereign Member States to include many new asylum seekers;]] [[noting that several European Member States are already opposed to this;]] [[calls on the Government not to agree to this plan,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bontes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32317-293]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bontes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32317-294]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bontes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32317-295]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u11	I've got half a minute, I see. There's something else I need to get off my chest. When I look at the tough VVD-plan not to let an asylum seeker into the Netherlands and then to the current position of the VVD, I find it really unimaginable that this is happening and that you can turn so far on a subject. It's unbelievable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u12	Mr. Chairman. It is clear that Europe must act. This year, 1,800 people have already drowned in the Mediterranean. Italy and Greece are no longer able to cope with the influx of asylum seekers and boat refugees. Europe must therefore act. We've seen the action plans. We have also seen the reaction of the cabinet. According to the Christian Union, first of all, we should also be involved in saving lives at the moment. That is why I ask once again whether the Prime Minister is prepared to send a frigate in that direction as soon as possible to contribute to saving lives, as other Member States are doing at the moment. I would also like to see the cabinet once again fully prepared to support the European Commission's plans as they stand. Does the cabinet accept the division, relocation and establishment? In the negotiations, is the cabinet not gonna hover over those criteria again? I would like a clear answer on that point. Since the letter and even the proposals of the European Commission are not clear on resettlement, it is still unclear whether it is additional or could fall within the scope of the existing 500 refugees. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the European Agenda on Migration provides for a resettlement proposal which relocates 732 persons in the Netherlands and that the Netherlands itself also has a resettlement programme including 500 refugees per year;]] [[Whereas it is not yet clear whether the resettlement proposal should be seen as an additional effort, however, that the government is open to this, but that its efforts are made subject to a number of conditions;]] [[calls on the Government to consider the resettlement proposal as an additional effort,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Voordewind. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32317-296]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u13	We have also talked about a central notification point at the southern border of Europe. I have also put forward and distributed a proposal to that effect. The Secretary of State is aware of this. The Secretary of State says the EASO would support that. That's right. Assistance is currently available to Greece and Italy. Officials are working on this right now. There are indeed pilots, as the Secretary of State says, but they do not directly deal with a central and joint approach to notification at the southern border. That's why I'm tabling the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the European Migration Agenda provides for a relocation proposal so that 40,000 asylum seekers with a reasonable chance of asylum status can be distributed among the different EU Member States;]] [[calls on the Government, within the framework of Article 78 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, to examine and inform the Court of Justice of the possibilities of a European Processing Center,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Voordewind. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32317-297]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u14	Mr. Chairman. War and poverty at the borders of Europe create a huge flow of refugees and human tragedies. European countries can no longer stand by and do nothing while this disaster is happening. Europe has a humanitarian duty to protect refugees. Individually, Member States cannot do that. I therefore welcome the government's support for a joint EU migration agenda. It is important that all countries now assume their responsibilities. This is an integral agenda. It is not a choice menu, from which you can choose or add something. You cannot argue for the redistribution of refugees and at the same time do not want to tackle human smugglers. One strengthens the other. At the same time, I am very concerned about this. From many capitals we hear negative noises about the agenda, which do not reflect the scale of this humanitarian crisis. The leaders should not kisses now, but be prepared to implement the ambitious agenda. As Cameron, you can't think that shooting boats alone solves the migration problem. As Hollande, you cannot say that the Mediterranean is all of us, but at the same time distance from the migration plan. It is now up to the Netherlands and other European Member States to act, and to the solidarity of people living there. I therefore hope that the leaders of our Europe will not only'shame'! I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. That is what is needed to deal with this humanitarian crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u15	May I deduce from the contribution of the PvdA that my motion in part No. The Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the permissible sound power level of motor vehicles and their trailers is based on the Commission's proposal It calls for explicit support for the current plans. That's in line with what I heard the PvdA say, which is that you can't get into it. It is indeed not a cafeteria where you open a hatch that you like and not another hatch.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u16	Which motions do I support or don't support, I'll look at later. I certainly agree with Mr Pechtold that we should support the principles of redistribution, resettlement, tackling smugglers, return and so on. I'm just not very attached to exact numbers. I'll explain. The letter talks about absorption capacity. Then you see what a country can handle and what it already does. I think this is logical in the light of my expectations and wish that this should not be a temporary but a permanent arrangement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u17	I think that the voters of the PvdA and the readers of Mrs Kikken's blog have got a completely different picture. They have been given the impression that the PvdA supports the proposal that is now before us. The Secretary of State just said in general consultation that he actually wants to negotiate back to make it less. And now I hear Mrs. Chicken giving room for that too. In fact, she says that there might be more consideration within the process of establishing that distribution key. So it is also actually taking an advance that it should be reduced. Then she leaves it all to the VVD. Worse still, the Netherlands is lagging behind, because then we have no position. Does the PvdA stand for the current key that leads to 2047 and 732. It is too terrible that we should say all this so precisely here yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u18	I do not know whether Mr Pechtold stands here for the rights of the refugees or whether his aim is to make the difference in the cabinet as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u19	Mr President, this is a personal fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u20	We are not discussing a personal fact, but you can have it recorded for the Acts. What personal fact do you wish to bring forward?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u21	I take offense at this. I'm trying to keep it clean. If Mrs Kuik says that I want to be political here about a difference in the coalition and that I am not focused on the boat refugees...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u22	You distance yourself from that remark. We are not discussing personal facts. Mrs. Kuik continues with her input.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u23	Mr. Chairman. I notice that Mr Pechtold always takes a great deal of space to mention others in debates, while there is not always room to react. So it happens the other way around. I still have to answer his question. Mr Pechtold should not shop selectively in my remarks. Also in previous statements and in response to the message on NU.nl in which he states that the Netherlands need to resettle less, I said that I am in favour of relocation and very much in favour of resettle, and that I assume that this is additional. At the same time, I said that I think it makes sense for you to look closely at what a country is already doing and what it can do. In particular, I said this because I want this to be not a temporary but a permanent arrangement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u24	A question from my side, too. Does Mrs Kuiken agree with me that the dimdam on a distribution key of 200 refugees is more or less a wholly subordinate point and that it should never end up there?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u25	I agree with Mr Grashoff and Mr Pechtold. If I have listened carefully to the Secretary of State in the previous debate, this is not a tough condition to support... The principle is supported and negotiations are starting now. This is one of the issues that lies ahead. Not only the Netherlands has such questions. Germany has one, too. But it's never gonna break up here. However, it does not seem to me illogical that you have a number of wishes and expectations when you start negotiations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u26	This creates some clarity. "It won't break." I remember that. I have another follow-up question. Does Mrs Kuik agree with me that no solution at European level is an option either and that it would therefore be preferable to take the lead with a leading group of EU countries if necessary and to implement this plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u27	The first objective should be for the Netherlands to lobby hard on other parties to make this EU migration plan a success. I hope and expect that too; I have heard this in the debate with the Secretary of State. It must be a majority position, and I think that should be the first objective. A number of serious countries want this and I expect the Netherlands to join. Of course, it's about the order of things. I have already said that this is a European story. It is not a question of what the Netherlands is doing alone and what it should do. We will often discuss this, and we will continue to wish to do so, but it is now a question of how we can come up with a common European agenda. We are in complete agreement on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u28	I did not chair the debate this morning. I do not want to restrict Members, but the Prime Minister was explicitly invited because they also wanted to enter into the debate with him. I would point out that the more debate there is between us, the less room there is for debate with the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u29	Mrs Kuik said very clearly this morning that she does not want to see European Heads of Government doing nothing but fine words. It wants to see European Heads of State or Government taking action. I would like to know whether the Secretary of State, if he is going to lobby in Brussels, will do so for a percentage lower than 5.12 for the Netherlands and whether he will do so with the support of the Labour Party or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u30	No, I don't expect that. I do expect the Netherlands and a number of Member States to see how the criterion that a country can handle and what it is already doing is being dealt with. That is not news, because this was already in the letter for which I expressed my support.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u31	Quite simply: we are talking about numbers. I agree with everyone that it is very annoying to talk about people at the same time about numbers behind the decimal place, about percentages. But that's what we're talking about. So I would like to know whether the percentage of 5.12 for the Labour Party is normal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u32	If Mrs Gesthuizen asks me if that number is sacred to me, I say no. I can accept it if the percentage gets higher. It may also be the case that a number of Member States do not participate and a number of Member States say: we do want common ground. That can theoretically mean that the percentage is getting slightly higher. So the number isn't sacred to me. If it's 1,999, I'm happy too. I am concerned that we should come up with a common European agenda, taking responsibility for the redistribution and resettlement of people, as well as for asylum policy. There is nothing new about that; neither to my statements in the media nor to the way it was written in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u33	I would like to strengthen the commitment of the Labour Party. The Secretary of State states in the letter, and this morning in the debate, that the criteria, the weighting and the 10% own reception which has already taken place must still be respected as far as he is concerned. That can only lead to a reduction. Does the Labour Party support the Secretary of State's efforts? I have a second question about the additional resettlement of 732 people. Does the Labour Party also say quite clearly here: the 732 is additional?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u34	Again, it's not news, but the letter says that the Netherlands wants to look closely at the absorption capacity of a country. What does a country do and what can it do? I think that is logical, partly because I advocate that this should not be a one-off emergency action and that it should be made permanent. It would be crazy if you didn't look at that. Now it's 40,000 people, but in an emergency, it could be 100,000 people. You have to invest that very carefully. 2,000, I think it's very acceptable. I also accept 3,000. I'm a little less concerned with the exact number. The Secretary of State has also said that it is not a harsh condition for him. I think that's an important statement too. I assume that the European Commission has meant additional'supplementary'.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u35	Just a little sharper than: Mrs Kuiks assumes that it is additional, but is it also her commitment? We are discussing today the commitment of the Chamber to the cabinet as to whether or not it is additional.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u36	Mr Voordewind's question was whether it was additional to what the European Commission means. I assume this is the case, and I support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u37	Mr. Chairman. Instead of addressing the root problem, Brussels is mainly presenting a broad-based response to symptoms. This does not prevent the human tragedies in the Mediterranean. In the first half of this year alone, more than 1,800 people have left their lives on this sea. I am not even talking about the people who had to leave their lives on their way to the North African coast. The VVD welcomes the fact that the government makes the assessment of these two proposals depend on the effective implementation of the remaining elements of the migration agenda. They aim to reduce the inflow. These include, for example, agreements with third countries, reception in the region, evacuation in safe ports of North African countries and the pushing back and disabling of human smugglers' boats. Only when the inflow is reduced will we possibly be prepared to do something extra. First of all, let those Member States which have done virtually nothing be allowed to express themselves in favour of common responsibility. Fortunately, there are some points of departure in the European Agenda on Migration. The European Commission recognises the need to find a common foreign policy to address migration problems outside Europe. Cooperation is taking place with third countries to counter influx. For example, a summit will be organised with the African Union in Malta and a pilot centre, a safe haven, will be set up in Niger. It is also good to see that, following the cooperation between Spain, Mauritania and Senegal, it is the cabinet's commitment to counter influx by extending cooperation between Europe and African countries. The VVD sincerely hopes that, in the meantime, there will be hard work on cooperation with those countries for the establishment of safe ports. However, it would be embarrassing if the Member States and Brussels were particularly busy over the next few months, while the human dramas continue, the smugglers could go ahead and the increasing influx remained uncontrolled, with all the security risks involved. The common denominator has been found quickly: the Member States want a migration policy in which the Member States and the European Union are in control. In short, we must put an end to the current asylum system.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u38	The last sentence of Mr Azmani surprises me somewhat in relation to what he said before: putting an end to the current asylum system. The cabinet is working out the current asylum system. Whether he likes it or not, we are talking about more refugees, who are also being admitted to the Netherlands. How is that consistent with the VVD's attitude, which first calls on the cabinet to move forward, and then states that the entire asylum procedure must be stopped?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u39	I'm not saying the cabinet is moving on. The cabinet itself states in the letter that the proposals are being assessed in conjunction with the other elements of the migration agenda. Those other elements of the migration agenda should be seen as stopping the influx of migrants, stopping that unbridled influx. These are agreements with countries, the creation of safe ports and the tackling of smugglers. That is where you really have to tackle the problem, namely at the source, at the cause, at the root. Not in the case of the two instruments on which there is a lot of discussion in the Chamber again, because that is the fight against symptomism. Resettlement is a symbol! This does not prevent the problems, and I believe that we are all here to solve the problems as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u40	I consider that to be an important observation in itself. It's not just about redistribution, it's about the rest. I assume that Mr Azmani agrees with the CDA's call that what he calls symbolic politics will only be supported if these other things are actually and not just on paper for each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u41	I see a cabinet that, at the beginning of the letter in the introduction at the request of the Chamber, states that these proposals are being assessed in relation to their effective implementation. It is not a question of the proposals being worked out. It concerns the effective implementation of the other elements of the migration agenda. Only then will you see the overall assessment of the proposals. That seems to me to be a very logical starting point. Do not immediately open the door, do not close the door immediately, but engage in conversations and assess the overall plan. For the VVD it is important that the external dimension gets the emphasis, because that actually solves the problems we face.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u42	I see that Mr Buma wants to interrupt one more time, but we are doing the interruptions in two. It's his turn now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u43	Madam President. The humanitarian disaster in the Mediterranean is causing a huge problem. Every day we see the sad images on television of people in boats that we try to save. Two feelings fight for priority: on the one hand, the humanitarian need that needs to be addressed, and on the other hand, the knowledge that we can never receive everyone, that those we are helping now are often followed by many more that we cannot always help. Both issues need to be tackled hand in hand: both the humanitarian approach and the approach at source. On 13 May, Europe launched an agenda covering both aspects: agreements with countries of origin and redistribution here. Here in the Chamber, we are only talking about redistribution in the end. In the end, this is the only thing made concrete by Europe: redistribution and resettlement. It is no longer about hard agreements at the source, but it should be. In short, the Netherlands threatens to take part in the argument that resettlement is the solution to the problem, while the problem is solved only if it is addressed on the other hand. I still have a few questions for the Prime Minister about the approach. Firstly, Europe is now making agreements, but what is the Netherlands doing? The Prime Minister has been to China, a country from which many people come to the Netherlands. China has so far provided very little cooperation on return. Has the Prime Minister made any arrangements and, if so, which ones? Secondly, what are the Heads of Government of Europe going to agree with Turkey? Turkey captures many refugees, but by now many refugees from Turkey continue to Greece. Greece is also having a very difficult time at the moment. How is Turkey, even a member of the Council of Europe, dealt with in this context and bound by the agreement that people should not be sent back to unsafe areas? Can there be tougher agreements with Turkey? Thirdly, I have a question for the Prime Minister about the 50 million. While there was a letter to the Chamber on how to deal with the asylum flow, there was suddenly an interview with Minister Ploumen in the Volkskrant in which she said she made 50 million available from the Dutch Good Growth Fund. This seems to be completely in breach of the agenda the Prime Minister previously conducted. He wanted to put pressure on countries, while first giving the money here, and then hoping that those countries would change their policies. Why this letter? Was there enough consultation with the Prime Minister before the letter was sent? I can't rhyme with it. If 50 million is already being spent, it should be in relation to agreements. The CDA would like to see it go, for example, to reception centres in the region, with the agreement that countries in that region will actually take the people back. It can certainly be very useful, that 50 million may be well spent, but not if it gets out of a fund that is intended for something completely different and goes to other countries. Finally. Talking about resettlement makes sense to the CDA. The exact number, whether there are 732 and 2.047 or a little more or less, is not the point. The point is that something needs to be done, namely a UN mandate to deal with human smugglers on the coasts of Libya. There is talk of this, but too little is happening. In addition, reception centres in the region must be established and countries must contribute to return. I shall table the next motion on these points. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering the need for a sustainable solution to the problem of asylum in the Mediterranean;]] [[Whereas this means that agreements on the redistribution and resettlement of refugees should be linked to hard agreements on:]] [[a UN mandate to act on land against smugglers;]] [[sufficient UN refugee camps in the region;]] [[concrete readmission agreements with countries of origin;]] [[calls on the Government to agree to resettlement and redistribution agreements only after these other agreements have been made,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Van Haersma Buma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32317-298]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u44	Mr. Chairman. This morning and just now it became clear again that the cabinet is divided on the right course when it comes to boats on the Mediterranean. The Labour Party thinks it is a good plan from the EU and wants to do it this way. The VVD wants to negotiate hard first to get as low as possible, I understood from the words of the Secretary of State. The Netherlands wants to include a certain percentage of the 24,000 refugees who are or will still be arriving in Italy and Greece. The percentage should preferably be lower than 5,12. The question of whether we should count the 732 people who are currently outside the EU but who are invited because they are extra vulnerable, above the annual quota or not, does not seem to be a consensus either. It is painful that the European countries agreed very quickly on one of the measures proposed: the destruction of boats. It is a symbolic measure with a dubious effect. The routes of refugees will shift and will probably become longer. This increases the risk of accidents and drownings. How is it determined which boats are or are not allowed to sail there? I am not talking about the risks of sending military troops to Libyan waters. I ask the Prime Minister how seriously the cabinet hopes for a UN mandate. Is trafficking in human beings a threat to international peace and security within the meaning of Article 39 of the UN Charter? The reactions to the non-military part of the EU plan give me a dirty taste in my mouth. It seems that many countries are keen to make it clear to their own people that there will be as few refugees as possible: as few refugees as possible in boats, as few refugees as possible from outside the EU and as few refugees as possible within the EU, but under the pretext of saving lives. If it is to be done in the Netherlands to save human lives, can I still receive a response to the question I asked this morning about Niger? There many people leave for a dangerous journey through the Sahara. Some are refugees within the meaning of the UN Refugee Convention, others are not, but it is clear that no one is better off taking this neck-breaking journey. In the coming summer there will be a pilot from the EU and led by the Italians, trying to convince as many people as possible not to start the journey, but either to return to the country of origin, or to participate in a transfer to the UNHCR, which can then assess whether a refugee is entitled to protection. Will the Netherlands also contribute to this? Finally, I shall table two motions for resolutions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the European Commission has proposed that the Netherlands should account for a percentage of 5,12 of some 40,000 asylum applications from refugees who had initially reported in Italy and Greece over the next two years;]] [[Considers that, given that it concerns people and that there is a strong consensus on the need to tackle the problem jointly with all Member States, it would not be appropriate to seek further negotiations on this percentage within the EU with a view to reducing it;]] [[calls on the government to show itself to be a worthy partner and not to lobby in Europe in order to reduce the proposed percentage,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that Italy is currently carrying out a pilot project to protect refugees from the dangerous journey through the Sahara in cooperation with Niger, in which people who do not have any chance of obtaining a residence permit in Europe are reminded of the dangers of the journey and of the very low probability of success of their intention, and those who are refugees and who can count on protection under the UN Refugee Convention, are transferred to UNHCR;]] [[believes that this pilot could contribute to reducing the number of people who are risking too dangerous a journey to Europe;]] [[invites the Government, with Italy, to consult on possible Dutch participation in this pilot,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member of the Houses. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32317-299]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member of the Houses. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32317-300]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u45	I ask Mrs Gesthuizen which SP'er agrees with her. There will be thousands of extra asylum seekers who will receive free care, while ordinary people will have to pay extra for it. Those asylum seekers will be given priority in the allocation of a social housing unit, while those from the supporters of the SP, who would very much like to involve such a home, will have to wait. That costs hundreds of millions. That money could also be spent on ordinary men and women in the Netherlands. I think Mrs. Gesthuizen is talking for herself, not for her supporters.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u46	I understand that Mr Wilders himself has actively contributed to the terrible neoliberal policy, especially in the years that he was still in the VVD, but also in the time that he was the great doger of the Rutte I cabinet. I would like to draw attention to the breakdown of the health care, social services and the excellent social housing sector that we had in the Netherlands. That's the actual problem. The false contradiction that Mr Wilders is always trying to create between people in our own country who have little and on the other hand people who have nothing and ask for our help and protection, I do not think I choose. Let me leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u47	I thank Mrs Gesthuizen for her answer. Let me have the courtesy to thank her for that, because the SP people at home, who listen to this, now know what the SP chooses for. The SP opts for more asylum seekers instead of cheaper care. The SP chooses that apartment rentals as a priority go to asylum seekers instead of to the people from the supporters of the SP who have long been waiting for a home. The SP chooses that we spend hundreds of millions of dollars last year alone almost 800 million dollars on asylum seekers instead of ordinary men and women. Mrs Gesthuizen only defends herself; her constituents do not want this at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u48	Dear Mr Wilders, if you had not now given your support to that horrible Rutte-I-Out-Right cabinet with all these liberalisation plans, with Minister Blok, who is trying to destroy the entire social housing sector in the Netherlands, but would support our proposals to create a more social Netherlands, in which the richer people pay a little more tax and in which the cake is distributed more fairly, perhaps the SP voters would also say: that PVV is not for nothing in that parliament. The contradiction that Mr Wilders creates between the people who have nothing and the people who have little is false. It is not the case that people in the Netherlands have to wait a long time for a rental house because asylum seekers crawl in front of them. The point is that without asylum seekers in our country there is a huge queue in the social rental sector. SP pickers get pissed off about that. I know that like no other, because I speak to them. I often go out on the street and talk to a lot of people in public. I stand for our views, in all respects.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u49	That is the end of the first term on the part of the Chamber. Given the large number of motions, the cabinet needs to consult for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u50	Madam President. I had imagined the reaction as follows. The Chamber has been very interested in having a lot of questions and comments raised in the motions. So I can answer a lot of questions and comments by dealing with the motions. A few questions won't do that, because they won't come back in motions. I'm gonna go into those questions first, and then I'm gonna go into the motions. I shall begin with the question of our own contribution to the Mediterranean. Requested and offered are a Coast Guard plane and a patrol ship. That is what we are now present with. There is no request for a frigate à la Charles Doorman at the moment. As we know, that's considerably larger than the patrol ship. Should such a request come, we will of course take a very serious look at it, but at the moment that request has not come.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u51	With all due respect, the Prime Minister is now starting with a somewhat technical answer and saying that it falls within the scope of the parliamentary questions, but could I ask him what inspired him when he sent the Chamber that letter in which he simply says yes with a number of ifs and buts to additional asylum seekers, to the European Commission's plan? What possessed the Prime Minister and why didn't he just say: we don't; there are enough asylum seekers in the Netherlands and we're sending them all back?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u52	Unlike Mr Wilders, I think we should realise that we do not live on an island. This means first of all that we have to ask ourselves how we in the Netherlands are going to ensure that our people continue to have support to provide people who are really in trouble with decent care and at the same time ensure that we do so in a way that everyone in Europe accepts responsibility, not just the Netherlands. That's one. Secondly, if people are not allowed to stay here, you must do everything you can to get them back as soon as possible. Thirdly, you must do everything you can to prevent the people who could be very well received in the region, or who do not want them to venture that dangerous crossing on those boats, from taking on that adventure. That is a coherent policy. I welcome the fact that the Commission is making a serious effort to look at these elements in conjunction: return, how do you prevent the crossing under these life-threatening conditions, and how do you at the same time ensure that, if people in Europe rightly claim to be asylum seekers, there is a proportionate distribution between Europe? This requires a very broad approach. This approach has to do with what you do in the region, with how to prevent those boats from going out at all and considering what is possible within non-refoulement not to drag the boats to Italy or Greece in all cases but, where possible, to the coast of Africa. In other words, you follow the full approach to make sure you get the problem under control. The answer cannot be that the Netherlands says: this is not happening, we do not want to see it and we are closing down. In Mr Wilders' policy, there is a very high chance that an uncontrolled flow of asylum seekers will continue, including to the Netherlands. Then we have to note that many of them may not have the right to care and that many of them come from countries where they should have been received in the first instance. In other words, that is not sustainable, it is not sustainable. This also affects the support base in Dutch society to a large extent. It is precisely in order to ensure that this support remains in the Netherlands and that we provide a decent reception for people who are really asking for shelter here, that is why I think you should look at the policy in a coherent way. It is then clear that a number of aspects of what the Commission comes up with still need to be discussed. For example, what exactly is dimensioning and what exactly is the order of effect of certain measures before you accept other proposals? I shall come back to that later on in the motions. That's a matter of measure. I listened very carefully to Mr Wilders. His input naturally fits in a pattern: we live on an island, we put a fence around it and the rest of the world doesn't exist. Even if Wilders and his party had the absolute majority here, let's hope that never happens.He couldn't prevent the Netherlands from being part of a world in which asylum flows move, which also come to the Netherlands. He too would then be faced with the question of how to manage it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u53	The Prime Minister thinks, if I just talk for half an hour, Mr Wilders might be quiet. But he hasn't given us an answer yet. Of course we have to send all these people back. Let them be helped by those rich Arab countries, by Saudi Arabia and Qatar. That last country is now picking up 46 asylum seekers and all the other Gulf States are doing nothing at all. Let the Gulf States pay, let them go there. What did this Prime Minister say yes to? What is the reality, instead of the shrewd and theoretical words of him? The reality is that on the island of Kos thousands of people arrive who are well-dressed, using a smartphone, sitting on a terrace with a glass of whiskey. The Prime Minister can make a joke about it again, but his constituents don't like it. What's the conclusion? This Prime Minister lets these people in, this kind of happiness seekers, and in the meantime, half of the elderly Netherlands is marbled out of the nursing homes. It's a disgrace.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u54	So, Mr. Wilders is full on the organ again. But perhaps it is good to go back to the facts, because the country also needs to be governed. We must take sensible measures here. As I said, even if Geert Wilders and his Party had 76 seats for Freedom, he would be faced with the question of how to manage this important issue properly. That would be no different than what this cabinet is supposed to solve. This is true in all cases, simply because the Netherlands cannot shut itself down from the rest of the world. That is not technically possible at all, with all our borders and our external borders. Then the question is how you deal with it. I gave a comprehensive answer to that, because I thought Mr Wilders challenged me to do so. I thought he might be right, perhaps a more general appreciation of the proposals would be better. Then I'll do it and then he'll be cranky that I'll give a comprehensive answer. I was just thinking that I was fulfilling his pressing request for clarification; he was given it. I am sympathetic to a number of things that Mr Wilders has mentioned. I also believe that much more needs to be done in the region itself by certain countries which are doing very little. That is one of the reasons why I insisted on one of the last summits in Brussels in April that we should sit down with Africa. That is going to happen, because there will be an EU-Africa summit, precisely to talk about the responsibility of the African continent. Why should people at risk in Libya or in other countries come to Europe? Why can't these people go to countries in Africa, such as Tanzania or Mozambique, where it's relatively safe? Why can't these countries also take responsibility? Why do these boats need to be towed to Italy in all cases? Why can't they go back to the safe ports on the North African coast? These are the types of issues that are at stake. We all have to look at this in conjunction. Mr Wilders cannot run away from that. He can't do that either. He's really trying to ignore the facts, but he's gonna have to face the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u55	The Prime Minister is a master in flaring different sentences together, for example, the possibility of catching up in Tanzania. But the reality is that of course this does not happen and that a lot of people are coming to Europe. The Prime Minister has just said that there can be no fence around Europe and the Netherlands, because we are not an island. Yet that is exactly what his own VVD suggested in March. Does the Prime Minister withdraw from this proposal of the VVD: a fence for it, no more refugees in Europe?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u56	We've had that discussion here before. I've been challenged to appreciate my party's proposals as Prime Minister. I refused to do so at the time, because they are proposals from a political party and because I am responding on behalf of the coalition. What we agree on fairly widely in this Chamber, including the VVD, is the need to ensure that the region accepts its responsibility, that people who do not risk a dangerous crossing, that people who are not allowed to stay here return as soon as possible and that the countries where people arrive apply the procedures in a decent manner and do not allow those involved to simply go to Calais or North Groningen. All this has to happen. As far as I remember, these elements are also included in the VVD proposals. Then there is a great deal of nuisance in southern Italy and Greece due to the large numbers of people coming to those countries. The question is, how do you deal with that? Then VVD and the PvdA, and so this coalition, say that they want to take that very seriously, but then a number of other things have to be well arranged, for example that other countries also take responsibility. It is also important to ensure that action is taken to prevent the dangerous crossing and to take the wind out of the sails of cynical smugglers. That is a coherent policy. You can't take out one element and make policies on it. This is really complicated. You're gonna have to do it in conjunction.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u57	That's a long answer to a simple question in itself. The Prime Minister does that all the time. He splits himself in two. He says: the coalition finds... And when it suits him, he says: I think... he does that when it comes to shelter in the region, which needs to be expanded. Then he says: I find that... And when it comes to the VVD's plan, he says: the coalition thinks... Is it true that the Prime Minister actually supports the plan that the VVD has launched and that is actually about closing the borders, but the coalition can't carry it now? That would make sense in this constellation. Or can he say out loud: no, I, Mark Rutte, do not think it can be that the borders are closing in Europe, and I will never say that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u58	I am foreman of my party and prime minister. I can explain to Mr Buma how state law works. Mrs Gesthuizen, you are also interested, I see! For both of you. As the foreman of this coalition, I am, of course, supposed to speak here from what the coalition is aiming at. The coalition agrees. This is true of the political groups, which I also note in relation to the various insertions and to the cabinet. The fact that there are then parties in this Chamber, including within the coalition, orientations and views that go even further beyond this policy is, of course, entirely free. The parties are very free to continue to think about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u59	But politics goes...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u60	I wasn't finished. Trying to approach each other within those limits is a good thing. That's what worked. The fact that the coalition parties have different views on this subject from their starting positions is no secret. We have had debates on this subject before. That's absolutely no secret. We usually get out of there in a good way, in the interests of the Netherlands and in the interests of people who are rightly seeking asylum, but also in the interests of the acceptance of returning people who are not entitled to asylum and not to bring them here at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u61	But politics is also sometimes a matter of principle. This is also a matter of principle.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u62	Hold that, Mr Buma!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u63	I will, but I'll ask the Prime Minister the question. Politics is sometimes a matter of principle. The question of whether we close Europe's borders to anyone who is not European is more than an instrumental coalition question. It's about how you feel about that, too. The CDA and I believe that we should be strict, but the borders close for asylum seekers from non-European countries cannot be. It would be a minimum if this Prime Minister were to make a statement of principle once and say whether he himself thinks that the plan means that the borders should be closed to non-European asylum seekers is good or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u64	Apart from the fact that Mr Buma is tempting me to comment on proposals from my party, which is complicated under state law, it would be nice if he would also correctly reflect those proposals. Because it is precisely in my party's proposals that it is also stated that, if Europe's borders were to be closed as much as possible, it would be a logical consequence that we would be prepared to do more in terms of resettlement than we are doing now. That is how I understood the proposals of the VVD. I am not going to comment on that here, but I am going to outline them to ensure that we have this debate at a level playing field. So the suggestion that the VVD says that the boundaries should be closed, point, is really an unfair representation of those proposals of this political formation. Once again, I am not commenting on this; I merely outline the proposals and what I have understood.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u65	Mrs. Gesthuizen. I'm trying to get everyone to turn, Mr Buma, so...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u66	Thank you for your turn, Mr. Chairman. I have another point, because the Prime Minister just said something that triggered me. That was about dragging back boats: where should these boats eventually be towed? I understand that the European Commission's plans must be explained in such a way that these boats are always dragged to a European port in principle. We also know that for a lot of people sitting on it, they have no chance of being qualified as refugees under the UN Refugee Convention. Is the Prime Minister, apart from what is now in the plan, and what my group wholeheartedly supports, prepared to work for further dialogue with the UNHCR in Europe as well? On the one hand, we can prevent people who really are refugees from being sent from hot to hot. They will be able to clarify quickly. On the other hand, those who would not be covered by the UN Refugee Convention are not entirely transferred to the Mediterranean Sea and then landed in a European port where they have to leave as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u67	I hope I understand the question correctly, but the letter sent by the cabinet on 9 June is at least clear on part of Mrs Gesthuizen's question. It says literally that we are looking at "... research into the evacuation in safe ports of North African countries and the deactivation of boats from human smugglers." That is also mentioned literally in the letter of 9 June, and that is what I am talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u68	So that means that, as is the case with the pilot that is going to run in Niger this summer under the direction of Italy, on which I have tabled a motion, you must work closely with the UNHCR, whether you are dragging the boats to European or North African ports. There are people among them who do have the right to protection.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u69	The question is why this protection could not take place in North Africa. That's what the investigation is all about. People flee Libya or other areas, where there is great instability in parts of the country, for which people are fleeing, in order to fall into the hands of smugglers of human beings and to cross a small boat on board. If it were possible to bring people back to a safe haven in Africa, why shouldn't that be and would that be wrong? That's what that piece in the letter is all about. So that's what we want to look at. Then you also have to deal with all the other facets of it. How do you deal with the fact that those boats are in there at all? How do you prevent people from boarding? What policy is behind that? How do you ensure that there is perspective in the region itself? I am thinking of the EU-Africa Summit to ensure that more countries take responsibility in Africa. That's what it's all about. As far as I am concerned, we must, of course, include all those who can make a positive contribution to this, including the UNHCR.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u70	The pattern is clear again. If the prime minister goes loose and sneaks into the Chamber, he's usually covering up the division in his own coalition, from the tax plan to this plan. I would ask him, where he gave us two hours on this important subject, to just respond to the questions. One of the questions I have is about the uncertainty surrounding the VVD, which says it's disappointed in the plan, and the PvdA, who says it's pleased with the plan. How will the Prime Minister, on the basis of his responsibility, ensure in the coming days that the Commission's proposal, which is now before us and which includes, among other things, a fairer distribution, is actually going to come about?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u71	Along the lines of the letter, and the coalition parties agree on that. That's exactly what it says. That means looking at all aspects of asylum policy. I have just explained it in my general appreciation, challenged by Mr Wilders. It's coherent. On the one hand you have to make sure... I'm not going to repeat all of that in connection with time; I'm referring to the Acts. So I have outlined that coherence. The letter also comments on the numbers and the question of how you really consider what the Netherlands is already doing. That is also a point that we are calling for attention to be given to in the European debate. All these aspects will have to be taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u72	If it is so obvious that the coalition is divided, but also that the letter is vague, I believe that as a parliament we have the right to ask the Prime Minister what his commitment is. Let me focus on the key again. Is the Prime Minister's commitment this key, which is regulated up to one hundredths behind the decimal point of the percentage for the Netherlands and other countries? Should it be lower as far as he is concerned, as I heard today from the Secretary of State and from the spokesperson of the VVD Group, or could it also be higher, as the spokesman of the Labour Party just said? What is the Dutch government's commitment? That's not only useful to know when you're talking to the 27 other countries. For us, it is a necessity to know what the cabinet really wants.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u73	I refer to the second paragraph on page 3, which sets it out precisely because, as a coalition, anticipating Mr Pechtold's question, we felt that we should be as precise as possible. It makes it very clear what we are going to do. It says that we understand that you have to make agreements on a distribution key. The criteria for that key are explained again on page 2 of the letter. You then talk about issues such as the unemployment rate, the number of spontaneous asylum applications, the GNP of the Member State and population numbers. Then we give an appreciation of that in the second paragraph on page 3. One of the elements on which we want to speak in depth in Europe is that it is important that asylum efforts at least lead to a more proportionate distribution between the Member States. It is important to look at the key in relation to the absorption capacity of the Member States. All these discussions will take place in Brussels. I now know from my colleagues that many Member States will say: it is logical that the Commission should come forward with a coherent proposal, given the enormous problem we face. Several countries, however, make important comments on various aspects.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u74	Following on from Mr Pechtold's interruption, I would like to ask another question. Does the Prime Minister agree with me or does he not agree with me that a discussion on a key that will ultimately lead to a number with a few hundred refugees more or less will never be decisive? Does he agree that this should be a subordinate point and that it should not end up there?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u75	I do not know whether Mr Grashoff negotiates, but if our commitment were as he puts it, I would not leave it out of the question. The probability that you will come to an adjustment is about zero point zero.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u76	That is precisely what is at the heart of the matter. It seems that the cabinet is prepared to start an endless negotiation with a number of other Member States at European level on a distribution key that is ultimately a subordinate issue. Then the conclusion of the cabinet should be, because I agree with the Prime Minister in this respect: accept that key and do not dimme.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u77	I do not know what Mr Grashoff agrees with me. We write in the letter that we understand that you should also look at a distribution key in order to implement such measures. A debate on the criteria is then possible. We also note that we still have a number of doubts about absorption capacity and such issues, and about a proportionate distribution between Europe. We're gonna have that conversation. It does not say in the letter that we are going to dim about it or dim about it or whatever Mr Grashoff said. We're not gonna do that. We are going to try to do this quickly, as we always do in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u78	Is it the Prime Minister's commitment to reducing the absorption capacity and so on with the other criteria he has just listed? That would mean that the Netherlands would do less. Or does he think it might be more?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u79	There is no commitment to the outcome of the percentage, there is a commitment to see these elements in the key. We want to ensure, for example, that greater account is taken of absorption capacity, but also of the efforts we are already making. They're now at 10%. Perhaps we should look for a coalition in Europe to take even more account of that. What this will ultimately mean for the percentages, we will see afterwards. In the letter we are looking for two balances: firstly, a balance between all the different elements of asylum policy, which I have already outlined, and secondly, a balance in Europe. If people are to be taken into account here, we must not only do so in the western part of Europe, but also in the eastern part of Europe, which is still under-represented in statistics, we must take more responsibility. That makes sense. This is part of solidarity, not only between us and the asylum seeker, but also between the Western European countries and the other Member States.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u80	If the minister starts to mortify on the 10% that the Netherlands has done so far, it can only go one way, namely that it will be less, because the Netherlands thinks it has done enough already. We have already had several discussions with the cabinet on this. Apart from that, the Prime Minister began with the frigate. I also asked in the first period whether it is possible for the Netherlands to send this. The Prime Minister says Frontex isn't asking. The Italian Coast Guard will ask for it. I was there myself a few weeks ago and then I spoke to Frontex. Then they asked about it, but maybe something has changed dramatically over the past two or three weeks. Suppose Frontex would not ask, then it is still a real question whether the Netherlands could send a frigate as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u81	I find that complicated. I do not think it will help if we suddenly get in the way of such a huge frigate if we do not have to. I think it should be on the basis of a request.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u82	The Italians have made it very clear that they can use all the help they can do very well, because they lack capacity. You can check with the Italians. On this basis, for example, the English also made a ship available, apart from Frontex.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u83	I think we agree that we are going to look at this very seriously if we need it, but so far we have only received a request for a coastguard aircraft and a patrol ship.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u84	I suggest that the Prime Minister should now continue his reply, because there are also 13 motions that need to be appreciated.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u85	I have one more question about the foregoing. The Prime Minister had just suggested that he had not yet appreciated Europe's proposals, but he said at the beginning of the Chamber: if I look through my eye hairs, the coalition agreement will not allow for the Commission's proposals. I'd like to match that with what the Prime Minister is saying here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u86	The Commission?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u87	The Council. It was a freudian slip.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u88	I used that phrase in an earlier debate a few months ago when it was about the VVD proposals. At that time, I said that the current coalition agreement did not in all respects link up with the full implementation of the VVD proposals in their most ultimate form. I believe that the spokesperson of the VVD took note of this with joy. It is what it is. I am very happy when political parties continue to think, also for later, about how we are going to improve policy further. Then you try to take steps that are "no regret" for your longer term goals. I'm gonna try to keep the usual pace. I have one final question about Turkey. Much is happening both bilaterally and multilaterally. In particular, the EU is active in this particular area. Then I'll come to the motions. My suggestion is to deal with three motions in conjunction: the Pechtold motion on item No 286, the Voordewind motion on item No. 296 and the Van Haersma Buma motion in part No. 298. In the letter, we also drew attention to the fact that the cabinet considers it important that, in the long term, all Member States participate in resettlement. At the same time, we note that, although there is still some uncertainty about it, the Commission seems to aim to ensure that this resettlement scheme is additional to efforts already made by the Member States. Next, our appreciation is that the cabinet does not exclude an extension of the efforts already made, but that we want them to depend on the extent to which other Member States participate in the proposed resettlement programme and on the effective implementation of the other parts of the migration agenda, the parts of which I have just discussed in detail, with a view to reducing the influx. Against this background, I believe that these motions are premature. The motions on the part No. 286 and 296 go in one direction and say that there should be something on top already and according to the motion in part No. 298 can't get on top of it. I think all three of them are premature. My proposal is therefore that the authors should continue these motions until the Cabinet can give further information on the discussions in Brussels on these important issues.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u89	How can the motion in part No. Now 298 be premature? This one says something's on parole. Either you say that it is conditional and then you support this motion, or the Prime Minister says already: even if those conditions are not met, we still agree to redistribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u90	In his motion, Mr Buma zoomed in on a few conditions. There's a little shopping going on. That's all right, but it's the Cabinet's job to play the whole organ. This has to do with all the aspects I have just outlined in relation to migration policy. As progress is made, we think it is logical that you should be open to the Commission's ideas on resettlement. But it goes on together: they are volume buttons that are both turned open at the same time. It is my request to the Chamber that it decide whether or not to go along with it in order to give the Cabinet the opportunity to have that type of debate in Brussels, to report back on it and to hold these motions until such time as further information is available. If the proposers would like to put them to the vote, then I can only discourage them. I can only repeat once again the commitment of the cabinet that we do not exclude the extension of the efforts already made. However, we want it to depend on the extent to which other Member States participate in the proposed resettlement programme and on the effective implementation of all those elements.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u91	But then the motion is necessary, isn't it? I can arrest her or something, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u92	Yeah, that's my proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u93	But then the Prime Minister must also say here that there will be no real agreement on redistribution unless a UN regime and so on is first met. Why do I say that? Because we see that it will only be about resettlement. This is the moment. Is the Prime Minister prepared to say: first a UN regime, reception in the region and so on, and then we are going to talk about resettlement? Or does he say: no, it may happen that we agree to resettlement while those other things are still in procedure?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u94	Our position in Brussels is that we want to look very seriously at extending the efforts already made, just as I read out the letter. This must be done in conjunction with what other Member States are doing, as well as with the effective implementation of all other elements of the migration agenda. That's why I'm also sketching the picture of two volume buttons: you have to look at it in conjunction. I can't estimate it right now. Those conversations are ongoing and are now focusing more on other elements. Discussions in Brussels and between Member States also focus more on other elements of the Commission's migration agenda. This particular point is even less in focus, but it is an important point. That is why I propose to the authors of these motions to give us the opportunity to look at it in conjunction and to come back to it later. Mr Pechtold and Mr Voordewind's motions move in one direction and Mr Van Haersma Buma's motions move in another direction. That's why my political appreciation is to hold them for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u95	Looking at Rutte in conjunction simply means: I don't know myself yet, I have a divided coalition and so a Chamber with views is actually quite annoying. That's looking at it in conjunction. We will now be hearing every motion: I still have to go to Brussels and there I am going to talk, but whether there is less, the current number or more, depends on the coherence in which we are going to look at it. The point is that the cabinet has positions. You cannot issue a press release and inform the media that you are embracing the ten-point plan from Brussels and then say here: it has to be looked at in conjunction again and it can actually go either way. In my motion to part No. 286 I say: bet on those numbers and force the other countries to do so. You can't say, "Keep it on." Yes, the Prime Minister, of course, wants me to hold the motion until after the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u96	Mr Pechtold suspects a whole world behind my position. I cannot deny him that; that is his right. It also says a lot about the speaker, of course. But let us assume that what Mr Pechtold is saying is not true and that we are really trying to look at policy in a sensible way. So this motion is premature, as are the motions on part Nos. 296 and 298. That is why my request is for the petitioners to hold them. Otherwise, I'm gonna have to dissuade them. I repeat, as the letter states, that we do not exclude any extension of the efforts already made. However, we do want two things: that other Member States should participate and that effective implementation should be ensured. In doing so, we do not assume at all that it has happened to the last decimal place and point, but that there is progress on that part. I gave the picture of the volume buttons: as that happens more, you can also do more on the piece we are talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u97	Who's premature now? It takes weeks for the cabinet to come forward with a response. Then the head of the reaction is: we embrace the ten point plan. If you ask what the cabinet then embraces, the reaction is: now it is premature and we need to look at it in conjunction. No, a debate between a cabinet and the Chamber, at least that is the experience I have here, is meant to enable us to check the commitment of the cabinet. Now all we ask is: is the bet to keep the key at 5,12%, so up to the decimal point, or is the bet that the percentage should be down or up? The reaction is: no, we're going to look at the indicators and then we're going to look together to see what the 27 other countries are going to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u98	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u99	So my question is: are we getting clear answers today or is it annoying parliament that is bothering with questions, such as whether or not there is a tax plan, or an agreement on refugees?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u100	Now suddenly the tax plan comes on the table. Then suddenly we're in a whole different debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u101	If there is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u102	Now I'm shooting up a whole different debate. Mr Pechtold is always fast and agile, but this is too fast for me. I am just trying to answer the question with the usual total openness. That means two things now. I gave the answer to that key. I talked about the impact, where the percentage is verse two. In the letter we also mention exactly what elements we want to discuss further. With regard to resettlement, the letter states precisely that we are looking at it positively and that we are willing to do so, but that we do want other Member States to participate and that serious progress is being made on the entire migration agenda. That's a point of view. I would like to say the following to Mr Pechtold. D66 used to be the party of nuance: policy is complex and sometimes you have to look at things in conjunction. Apparently that wind has fallen a bit and D66 has become a bit more like the Wunschgegner, namely: clear points of view and we leave the nuance away. I think that's a shame. I think it's a loss.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u103	I should like to begin by giving the floor to Mr Voordewind, because it is also about the appreciation of his motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u104	It is true that it is also my motion in part No. 296, which can be seen as an extension of Mr Pechtold's motion. The only simple request that my motion contains is to indicate whether or not it is additional. That calls for the cabinet's commitment. Then the Prime Minister can't say: we're gonna wait and see it again and we're gonna go to other people's wrists. I'm just asking what the cabinet's bet is. Is it supplementary, so on top of 500, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u105	I have already answered this a number of times, namely that it is quite conceivable, as far as the cabinet is concerned, that we will eventually agree to an additional effort as two other things succeed, namely that other Member States will also participate and that the other elements of the migration agenda will be effectively implemented. That's a real point of view.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u106	These are, after all, different relativizations from those we heard from the Secretary of State this morning, which says: it seems that the Commission has proposed to do it in addition.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u107	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u108	Well, then we have a proposal or then we have no proposal, but it cannot be the case that the Prime Minister, who we have now clearly said is additional, says: even if it is additional, then we are going to make it dependent again on the commitment of others. Well, then everyone's all around each other, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u109	Mr Voordewind is one of the leading foreign speakers in this Chamber. Surely it is not so that he knows all these years that if the Commission comes up with a proposal, then the answer can always be a simple yes or no? In this case, we say that we want to take a very serious look at it and we can also very well imagine that we will end up with it, but we would also like to establish these two other elements first. It's the connection, just like the letter says.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u110	I would very much like to return to the Prime Minister's reaction to the three motions and, more specifically, Mr Van Haersma Buma's motion, because I am very concerned about that. In this motion, Mr Van Haersma Buma specifically mentions three conditions, namely a UN mandate to act on land against smugglers, sufficient UN refugee camps in the region and concrete readmission agreements with countries of origin. However, these are aspects that were not mentioned in this way and not so harshly in the cabinet letter. You can't do this. I therefore believe that there could be only one conclusion, and that is that the Prime Minister is not recommending this motion. I would also like to warmly invite Mr Van Haersma Buma not to hold his motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u111	The latter goes between the speaker and the author. With regard to that first point, I would like to point out that the cabinet position talks about the extent to which it is appropriate. We say that we can very well imagine what these additional numbers are, but on the other hand we want to see clear progress on a number of points: what are other countries doing and to what extent are the other elements of the migration agenda being implemented? Mr Buma gave a very detailed explanation of this in the recital in this motion. I'll leave it for the CDA. Let me focus on the operative part of the motion. Then I must say in my political appraisal that this motion is moving in a different direction than the motion in part No. 286 or the motion in part No. 296. To be honest, I think all three motions are premature.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u112	The Prime Minister must really read Mr Van Haersma Buma's motion. It says here "linked to hard appointments," then three bullets, and below that "only agree when these other appointments have been made." It leaves nothing to be desired. Once again, I would like to congratulate Mr Buma, but when the cabinet fails to do so, there is a cabinet that speaks with two mouths. There's no other way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u113	It seems very complicated to me that I speak with two mouths on my own. There are three motions here, two of which go one way and one the other. Of course, you can fill in the motion completely in every recital in the motion, but in the operative part they really go two ways. Both touch on the cabinet position as we put it in the letter. I have repeated here a number of times that it concerns a link between the elements and the extent to which things are being brought to a successful conclusion. I find these motions premature, and once again I recommend that all three be held, otherwise I advise against them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u114	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u115	Good. Those were the motions on part nos. 286, 296 and 298. My advice is to keep it. Otherwise, I'm gonna tip them off. Then the motion to part No. 287, by Mr Pechtold. If, by means of this motion, he means 'yes, if' in relation to the various matters that the cabinet in Brussels wants to continue negotiating with the Commission and other Member States on the elements that I have just mentioned, if he supports the Commission's current proposals, provided that the various considerations in the letter are taken seriously, then it supports policy and I can embrace the motion. If it is an unbiased support of the proposals, then I must discourage the motion. I am afraid that is what Mr Pechtold meant, given the familiar look with which he is now coming to the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u116	This is a motion in which I want to look at things in conjunction.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u117	Wise. I just haven't gotten an answer yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u118	Me neither.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u119	I can interpret the motion differently. If I don't get a further explanation, I'm gonna have to dissuade the motion. If Mr Pechtold says that it supports the proposals that the cabinet has also made, taking into account a number of issues in a six-page letter, which we talk about even further in order to refine, then it is policy support. I really must challenge Mr Pechtold to give clear wine in this public debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u120	In fact, now that the roles are turned around, this exposes what we, as a Chamber, are experiencing throughout this debate. If you're not clearer about what you're talking about and you're running in "viewing in coherence," then the other can't judge that. I assume that my motion means to work for the Commission's proposal as it stands. I suspect the motion is now being dissuaded, because the cabinet wants it, what did the Prime Minister call it? "Watch in conjunction'. In other words, they don't know what they want yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u121	I think this is very funny. I am getting a Commission proposal on an extremely complex problem and I am genuinely trying to explain that you cannot see the various elements in isolation; you also have to look at how they interact. How do you prevent people from coming here who are not allowed to stay here at all? How do you prevent people from taking life-threatening crossings? And how are you a safe haven for people who are really being prosecuted in a terrible way? If that's what you think and you want to get social support, is that proof that you don't have a position? I can't reach that with my hat. However, Mr Pechtold has the greatest right, but I must advise against this motion. In the motion in part No. 288 the government is invited to call for an extension of the mandate of rescue operations at sea. Frontex coordinates primary border security operations. Increasing capacity also leads to more rescue operations. There is therefore no need for an extension of the mandate, so I would advise against the motion. But now I come to a motion which I consider to be a support for policy. I'm referring to the motion in part No. 289. So Mr Pechtold and I still come to 'ein Einigung'. The motion in part No. Mr Pechtold's 290 concerns the growth fund. I advise against this motion. We are contributing a lot to humanitarian aid for the Syrian crisis. Since 2012, this amounts to 147 million. In addition, there are substantial contributions to development cooperation projects in Lebanon and Jordan. This amounts to more than 10 million in 2014, including for projects targeting host communities. Reception in the region is therefore already a priority of the cabinet. The need for humanitarian aid is greater than ever before, because of the record number of refugees worldwide. That is also why we set up the Relief Fund last year, which significantly increased the humanitarian aid budget this year. In addition, we are committed to combating illegal migration for economic reasons. We want to achieve this by giving young people a perspective on a good future in their own country. We are creating alternatives to illegal migration in this way. Against this background and as part of the policy, additional investments should also be considered in order to create more jobs for African young people and thus provide more opportunities to set up their own business.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u122	In this context, I had asked a question, but the Prime Minister did not answer it. How is it that this plan was so completely separated from the rest, suddenly presented by the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation in the Volkskrant? It does not contribute in any way to the concrete solution of the problems that lie ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u123	I am against that, because I totally disagree with Mr Buma. It is immediately the last part of the answer in response to the motion in part No. 290. It's just part of the extra bet on the root causes. You are talking, for example, about how to create jobs for young people and how to get young people to start their own businesses and not, for economic reasons, take the step towards migration to Europe. On the contrary, it is very sensible to invest in the region. We do that in several places. It's called development cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u124	And then I wonder why this issue was discussed separately by the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation in an interview and is not part of the cabinet plans. Is it agreed in advance that the Minister should launch this plan in this way? Is it attuned that she would launch the plan at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u125	It works like this. As a cabinet, we are talking about the contours of policy. Within these contours, ministers and secretaries of state are moving towards sensible policies, explaining them and making use of them. That is precisely the job of a minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u126	This is an important answer, because the Minister actually says: no, this has not been specifically agreed with the rest of the cabinet in the context of the agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u127	The cabinet has a policy, in this case a response to the European proposals, and in that cabinet policy, which I use once again as a coherent word, preventing migration to Europe for economic reasons is an important element. We agree on that. A trade minister then has the opportunity to take important steps in this respect. The last thing I want is for her to call me five times to see if I can. I'd like her to do it. I'm excited about this. This is good policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u128	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u129	Mr Grashoff's motion for a resolution 291 is about the breakaway. I'm gonna dissuade her. The problem at the moment is that only a limited number of countries are cooperating. We want more Member States to assume their responsibilities. The motion in part No. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). In the motion in part No. 293 by Mr Bontes, the government is invited to work for military deployment around the coast of Libya. The EU is taking many actions. Look at the mission related to the common defence and foreign policy against human trafficking, border surveillance and the preventive approach in the region. I believe that we should first focus on these measures, and that is why I advise against the motion. The same applies to the motions for resolutions on item Nos. 294 and 295. I'm getting to the motion on part No. 297 because the one in part No. Two hundred and ninety-six I've just been treating. I would ask Mr Voordewind for his motion on item No. Two hundred and ninety-seven to be retained. The Secretary of State has said that he will present an evaluation of the EASO in the autumn. I think he has also indicated this in general consultation prior to this. This evaluation is a good time to discuss this element in conjunction. My proposal to Mr Voordewind is to hold the motion until then. Otherwise, I'm gonna have to discourage the motion right now. Perhaps we can come to a sensible joint approach if we bring this motion together with the evaluation. The motion in part No. 299 tabled by Mrs Gesthuizen is about reducing the percentage. I have just spoken about this in detail. Our aim is to ensure that the various elements leading to that percentage are in balance. That's why I have to discourage the motion. In the motion in part No. 300 requests Ms Gesthuizen to consult the government with Italy on the possible Dutch participation in the pilot. We are already discussing this pilot with Italy and the Commission. No request has yet been made for a Dutch contribution. We are already doing the requested in the motion; it is a standing policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u130	You say it's standing policy, but then what is your verdict on the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u131	If it's standing policy, the motion is superfluous. That sounds a little rude, but I can't say otherwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u132	Not everyone will be clear about that right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u133	Agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u134	If a motion is unnecessary, it means that it is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u135	Yes. I find that a bit annoying, but unnecessary motions I always advise against. Furthermore, I know that the SP attaches great importance to the environment. For this reason, too, we must avoid unnecessary motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u136	Moreover, I note that some of the motions that support policy are not seen as superfluous, but rather as a side effect. I have not received an answer to my question as to how much human trafficking against which the European Union intends to act constitutes a threat to peace and security within the meaning of Article 39 of the UN Charter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u137	I don't have a thorough study ready for that. I've prepared myself for the letter that lies there. We can try to take this question with us in a subsequent debate, in a progress letter or something like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u138	Too bad. I want to stay away from the political confusion as to whether or not the coalition has a position on it. The various letters we have received from the European Commission state that we are going for a UN mandate. The Cabinet supports this. I think that is an extremely important point. It is a question of military action from the European Union. We can't just let that run away. I am sorry that the Prime Minister cannot answer my question. This morning I also raised this in the debate with the Secretary of State. It is an important point for us. I would be sorry if we could not enter into the debate on this now, when the decision-making process has already started on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u139	Once again, I did not prepare for this element, because I did not think it would play a major role in this debate. I still have the answer to this point. I admit that we would like to have this debate on occasion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u140	I shall come back to my motion on part No. 297 over the EASO. If the Prime Minister can promise that the Netherlands will take an active position on this issue and will actively monitor and possibly stimulate the case, I will continue the motion and look forward to the evaluation with confidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u141	Agreed. Agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u142	At the request of Mr Voordewind, I propose his motion (32317, No. 297). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-6.u143	We'll be voting in 45 minutes. First we'll have another VAO.
