ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u1	I would like to welcome all those present in the Chamber and in the public gallery, as well as those who follow this sitting in a different way. In particular, I welcome the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister. Thank you for accepting our invitation. Even if we always assume that you do, we are grateful. I would also like to welcome the representatives of the people of the European Parliament who are in our midst today and who will take part in the debate. Nineteen speakers have spoken for this debate. A number of Members of the European Parliament may take the floor. They may provide their input from the speaker's seat. This must be a source of information. However, the Dutch Members of the European Parliament are not allowed to interfere with the members of the House of Representatives, the members of the Government or each other. If a Member of the House of Representatives or a member of the Government discusses the contribution of a Dutch Member of the European Parliament and there may be an misinterpretation, it is for the President's assessment that I am therefore entitled to reply. I am not saying that I will never allow it, but I do want to deal with it with so many participants in the debate very reluctantly. Let's get started. Speaking time has been fixed. You can see all this on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u2	Mr. Chairman. The first moment in history that I experienced was the fall of the Berlin Wall in 1989. I was 10 years old then, but those images are still clear on my retina. That was the beginning of a period of great optimism, especially for people of my generation. The end of history was proclaimed. There would be economic growth forever. In the nineties the trees also seemed to grow to the sky. The Maastricht Treaty was concluded and Europe grew. In the first decade of the 21st century, the first cracks came into that optimism. The attacks on the Twin Towers put our noses on the facts: our security and our freedom are not at all self-evident. While in the first half of that decade we were confronted with the cracks in optimism about peace and security, the second half of that decade was marked by the biggest economic crisis since the Second World War. So there were also cracks in our optimism about growth, about the growth of prosperity, and about our fundamental agreement that next generations would always get better than the previous ones. In addition, in recent years new security threats have emerged: an aggressive Russia at the eastern border and great instability in the head of Africa, where the terrorists of ISIS are now on the other side of a small sea in which we bathe our feet in the summer. All these threats sometimes lead to gloomy predictions about the demise of the Eveningland. The VVD doesn't want to be a part of that gibberish. We see optimism as a duty, but then we must dare to change the beacons. If we look back on those decades, we must also note that too much of that optimism was 'optimism on the puff'. Optimism on the puff, because it was too much based on making debts instead of making money. Optimism on the puff, because we lived as free riders under the United States' safety umbrella. We must move from optimism to realistic optimism. Optimism based on earning rather than borrowing. Optimism that is based on your fists dare to show instead of hiding behind the big skirt of the United States. That is the challenge for the VVD for the European Union in the coming years. Bring optimism back to Europe, but now not on the puff, but on the basis of action. For this, Europe needs to do what it has to do and let alone what it has to do. What Europe needs to do is to keep agreements. No money to Greece when the Greeks don't deliver. The euro area countries, especially France, are forced to comply with budgetary agreements. In fact, that means forcing them to do what the Netherlands has done in recent years, namely reform, put the budget in order and ensure that economic growth returns.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u3	Before this debate we had a hearing with Members of the European Parliament. There were interesting discussions, among others with Mr Van Baalen, Mr Van 't Wout's colleague. He was very firm and said: if the Greeks do not comply with the agreements we have made, there is actually no room to negotiate further................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ What does Mr Van 't Wout think of that; does he agree? Do they have to live up to everything we have agreed to? Is the conclusion different: then from the Union?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u4	The VVD has always been clear. The Greeks now have a package to deliver. The ball's with them. This must then be approved by the Troika and the Eurogroup. Only then can money be paid out. If that doesn't happen, it's their problem. This may lead to their exit from the euro.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u5	The honourable Member from the European Parliament was much clearer. He indicated: I think they should get out; I can't kick them out, but by shutting down the money tap, I make sure they're forced out and that we're actually pushing them out. That's clear language. How does the House of Representatives view this? Does the VVD think that if Greece does not give home now, the conditions should not be negotiated? They will then have to leave the euro and the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u6	The ball is near Greece. If the Greeks do not buy that ball, the consequences are for them, even if it means leaving the euro. What Europe needs to do, above all, to restore real optimism is to finish what it started once. The internal market, which is one of the key elements of the European Union and one of the main drivers of prosperity, is far from complete. Whether we are talking about transport and logistics, services, the digital market or the energy market, we are far from there. Especially for an open trading country like the Netherlands, we leave huge opportunities for more prosperity and more jobs. What Europe must leave is losing itself in initiatives and discussions where Europe is not needed. No European taxes, for example; no blue envelope from Brussels. What Europe must do is speed up the conclusion of a trade agreement with the United States, so that we in the Netherlands not only build cars that we can sell in Europe but also in the United States. The TTIP Treaty is a lot in the news today, despite everything you can say about it, because it has a much greater meaning than just a larger market for our entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u7	I am pleased to hear a positive voice from the new colleague in the field of Europe. I heard his first memories were from the late '80s. I got a bit of a picture of the positivos, Koot and Bie, the vintage zero, our god is the best. But let's try to fill that out with Mr. Van 't Wout. He sees Europe above all as the Europe of commerce, the Europe of jobs and the Europe of taxes here or there. Does Europe have anything more for him? Does Europe also have a sense of shared values in terms of human rights, peace and security, also to keep each other focused on, for example, the freedom of journalism and human rights? I missed that positive part for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u8	I wasn't at the end of my speech either. Mr Pechtold will have noticed that too. Yes, of course the European Union is more than just trade. With all the criticism you can make of Europe, for example, it is an enormous achievement that in the 1990s we were able to transform a large number of dictatorships on the eastern border, without a shot being fired, into liberal democracies. This is certainly also the case in the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u9	That's exactly where I was trying to get Mr Van 't Wout: dictatorships. Over the last few days, we have heard some very special statements from the VVD group chairman. He said a little bit against these dictatorships, because that kind of stability is better than when you come up with human rights and when you stand on squares in Ukraine and say: this is not possible. He thought we shouldn't do that anymore. For me, Europe is peace, security, and that is where prosperity comes from. My question is whether there is a change of direction at the VVD in the attitude towards Europe, with regard to countries where these freedoms are less favourable. Or has that whole feeling of Mr Zijlstra been taken a little out of context and the VVD here today, when we talk about Europe, say: no, the right order is indeed peace, security and then prosperity comes from it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u10	I don't see any distinction between those three things, but I'll be on foreign policy in a minute. I am sure we will discuss Mr Zijlstra's fine article in the Liberal Reveil, a magazine on which, of course, all those present will subscribe after this debate in the Chamber. It's not expensive either, I say. Certainly Mr Pechtold will already have that subscription, as a liberal. What Europe should not do is to get ahead without looking back at it. We now have our new Commissioner, Mr Timmermans, who is working on an important project. He wants to take seriously the question of what rules and laws we can delete in Europe. He's already put down a list for that. You can say it's too little, but it's a start. The VVD believes that Timmermans deserves every support with that course, because intentions on paper are beautiful, but it's about results. As far as the VVD is concerned, the Committee should provide Timmermans' agenda with measurable goals and results as soon as possible. The Chamber and the Cabinet should also be able to see at what point Timmermans wants to delete how many rules and how things stand. This way the pressure can be kept on the boiler. As far as the VVD is concerned, we are going to introduce the impact assessments that we are now doing at the start of a legislative process in the European Union at the end of such a process. We also know that, during such a process, such a law may well be substantially modified and extended. I would like to hear a reaction from the cabinet. What Europe needs to do is to spend money efficiently and effectively. Last Monday, Minister Koenders gave a nice lecture in Leiden, I say by heart, in which he suggested that more European money should be dependent on performance, as we have sometimes thought of it for pre-accessory fees. It remained a bit with that thought, but in itself the thought very appealing to the VVD. We would therefore ask the Prime Minister to be more specific about this today and to send a plan to the House of Representatives. We are currently facing great instability in the east and in the south. We must use a realistic foreign policy with the muscle of NATO, the fist of sanctions and the warm hand of diplomacy to defend our interests. Don't cheer too quickly in a revolution, but you also wonder what the old will replace. After all, the fact that the Arab Spring has become an ice cold winter is not only deeply sad for the inhabitants there, but also a threat to our security.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u11	Mr Van 't Wout spoke for a moment about the internal organisation of the EU. Is he gonna say anything more about that or did he shut down that block?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u12	I have 35 seconds to speak for two cubes. If Mr Beertema wants to give me the opportunity, through an interruption, to say something about that, he can ask his question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u13	I understand that you are moving quickly across the internal organisation, because once again many mistakes have been found. In terms of taxpayers' money, nearly 7 billion of errors have been detected. We also see that much more fraud has been detected. You can't say it's a success story, can you? Are you gonna tell me this has to be better and all? Are you going to say that after 20 times not approving the annual accounts it might happen the 21st time?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u14	I fully agree with you that fraud cannot be done and that it is ridiculous that we have not been given a positive statement for 20 years. I'm glad you're giving me a chance to say that. You also know that in eight minutes you can't name everything. I am certainly not just positive about the European Union. That's what I think my whole input is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u15	I can understand very well that you cannot name everything. But such a big gremium that for the 20th time no approved annual accounts can produce is not a small thing. That is a tragedy, and given the cost, it is a financial tragedy. There's nothing in order there. Surely you can say a little more about that than you do now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u16	I said what the European Union should do and that it should spend its money well, efficiently and effectively. I would also like to thank Mr Beertema, because I agree with what he says. The major issue of asylum and migration is directly related to security. Last week, this Chamber debated this extensively, following a plan by the VVD. That won't be the last time. We are and will remain convinced that the only answer to this major issue can ultimately be the commitment to reception in the region. Legitimity, one of the goals of the Dutch Presidency, is given in the eyes of the VVD not by talking, shifting paper or by conducting campaigns, but by achieving results; results that contribute to a life in security and prosperity for all Dutch people; results that restore optimism, but now based on actions rather than on the pof.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u17	I doubted for a moment whether I should interrupt because we don't have that many interruptions, but I still want clarity of the VVD. The second parliamentary group of the VVD just said, through Mr Van 't Wout, that the free trade agreement with America must be established, because it is very important that cars that we make here meet the same standards as there and vice versa. Now not everyone in the VVD is blindly excited about TTIP. In the European Parliament, the agricultural spokesperson rightly expressed concerns about the fact that it will soon be a large internal market. The European market goes together with the American market, where the standards are different than here. The concerns expressed by the Agriculture Economic Institute, among other things, are that European farmers, the Dutch farmers, will be the victims of this. In the European Parliament, the VVD says that a tough condition for that treaty must be that its own standards remain in place. In the Lower House, the VVD does not want to participate. Can Mr Van 't Wout explain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u18	This is not a very good summary of the different insertions. TTIP was also discussed during the previous two debates on the European Summit. The VVD is clear. We constantly support the government's efforts to maintain the standards of the Netherlands and of Europe and to ensure that there is a level playing field. What bothers me in the whole TTIP debate is that it looks like this is a terrible thing by now. That is why I say, on behalf of the VVD, that this treaty should simply be established. Not only for welfare reasons, but also because the US is going to shop with Russia and China if we do not sign a treaty with the US. I say to the Animal Party that the world's standards will only deteriorate further.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u19	So that is not clear and we hear the VVD here as in election time. Criticism of Brussels, transfer of power is all bad. So now also criticize TTIP, because it will put pressure on Dutch and European farmers. When it comes to it, however, the VVD does not have any consequences and it is okay that our market will soon be flooded by American products. So when it comes to it, it's not a condition. Then it's just a little bit of a test balloon. So you leave all the farmers in the cold, thanks to the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u20	No, because the government's commitment, in which the VVD is the largest party, is absolutely clear and we support it. It is precisely the American market that is being flooded with Dutch entrepreneurs, so that we can create jobs and prosperity here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u21	Here jobs and prosperity, of course, I am very much in favour of that. Just like for better rules. I think that's what everybody's for. Mr Van 't Wout just said that TTIP, that trade agreement, should just be there. A number of conditions have been laid down by the government. For example, Minister Ploumen has started working to see if the ISDS public can be organized and not private. So "it has to get there" is still a few times "subject to" after all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u22	Yeah, that's true. Today, the nuance of this debate is threatening to change: the whole TTIP is nothing at all. That is why I say that the agenda of the cabinet and of the European Union must be that we are going to conclude that treaty. That must be the engine of your bet. Of course there are 100 other things to say about such a treaty, but the VVD attaches great importance to the success of these negotiations. This is really crucial for the future of Europe. Is that gonna be a lost continent staring at itself or is that gonna be a world player?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u23	I do not know whether the lost continent is the United States or Europe in that case. I really do think that 'it has to be done' is not quite in line with what Mr Van 't Wout himself said earlier, namely that he would like to see frameworks, and with the commitment of the government, which, by the way, can be even sharper as far as the PvdA is concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u24	That's the same question as before. If you say you want to achieve a goal, you can come up with all kinds of things around it: like this, then that. No, your commitment must be to achieve that goal. The VVD attaches great importance to the creation of a free trade agreement with the United States. That is what I have said before, and that is what I will continue to say here today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u25	The question is, of course, what is the price of such a trade agreement? I don't know if Mr. Van't Wout is out of De Boerderij by now, which I asked him about the last time. This includes a column from his party colleague, Mr Huitema, from the European Parliament. That said, I am asking the question, in addition to Mrs Ouwehand's question, that those standards should not be lowered. There must indeed be a level playing field, but we are not going to lower our standards when it comes to animal welfare, for example. That was really a breaking point for him. That is a much clearer point of view than the position I am hearing today: TTIP must be put in place at all costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u26	I said that this treaty is crucial for the future of Europe and therefore for the future of the Netherlands. Of course there are things around there that you need to talk about. The commitment, also of the cabinet, is not at all to bring down those standards in Europe or the Netherlands. The VVD likes that. I am also a little opposed to that idea that the trade agreement looks forward to giving up everything we have here. I do not think that is in line with reality. I am also opposed to the whole negative atmosphere that is about to arise because of this debate, although I do not blame Mr Segers so much. However, I sometimes see fear coming along. I really think that for the future of Europe, including as a global player, that treaty with the United States is crucial. By the way, of course, I took a subscription to De Boerderij.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u27	Good news for De Boerderij. TTIP can indeed be a very good means of stimulating trade between two major continents, but at what price? You can say there are all kinds of ghost stories. It would help citizens' confidence if a number of red lines were outlined. Indeed, the standards must not be lowered. That was what Mr Van 't Wout's party colleague in the European Parliament wrote very clearly. In addition, for example, dispute resolution should not be privatised. We must not circumvent democratic decision-making. If the VVD Group sets out clear lines in these areas, it would help to build confidence in the TTIP negotiations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u28	I have said a number of times, also in this debate, that it is precisely the cabinet's commitment. What Mr Segers is now describing is precisely the commitment of the cabinet. That commitment supports the VVD. However, all energy must be directed towards getting that treaty in place. This is not only about the trust of people who may get a little anxious about images about chlorine chickens and other crazy animals, but also about the trust of Dutch entrepreneurs who want to sell their trade in America. There is a huge market open for them. The question is whether Dutch entrepreneurs are going to operate there or Chinese entrepreneurs. The VVD then opts for Dutch entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u29	Mr. Chairman. Priorities have been set for the Dutch Presidency of the European Union from the beginning of 2016. The narrow section of the VVD in the European Parliament shares these priorities wholeheartedly. This concerns the market, trade, energy, less rules and better regulation. However, there will be a number of issues that are already being discussed or are emerging unexpectedly, and which will be equally important for the Dutch Presidency. One of these has just been mentioned, namely the position of Greece. I have no alternative but to say that there is a politically puberty of the Athens government. Europe is not, however, a nursery for children. It cannot be the case that the Greek Government is travelling through Europe, that it is actually setting aside agreements, that it is giving Europe a little more flexibility, that it is ultimately doing nothing for weeks and that it is now saying that Greece is going to collect taxes now. That solution is almost a typical solution of the South. They say we're going to collect more taxes. I still have to see if that's gonna work. As a matter of fact, Athens needs to realize that it's hoof or calf. It is either participating in the currency union, including all the agreements that have been made, or leaving the currency union. I am not convinced that Greece has the will or is able to function properly within that currency union. Tsipras also uses the possibility of blackmail. Greece is a member of the Schengen area. One of his ministers said that we will open up the external borders. That is impossible and unacceptable blackmail. The first conversation with Tsipras or with Varoufakis was at the Russian Embassy. Also during Tsipras' state visit to Moscow, it was said that we are not in favour of the jointly agreed sanctions. If so, I wish Greece every success in its relationship with Russia. However, Russia simply does not have the money to help Greece. In fact, Greece is more valuable than Crimea. So I look forward to that exchange with interest. Ladies and gentlemen, if Putin wants Greece, then for us Crimea, because that is cheaper. So we need to be clear. I mentioned Putin; my second point is Russia. Putin is a simple man. He says what he thinks on average. As Deputy Mayor of St Petersburg, he has already said: I want a restoration of the Soviet Union. He said: the greatest crisis of mankind was that the Soviet Union was in decline. From Georgia, Moldova, Crimea and eastern Ukraine, he has only one policy, namely to make those countries unstable. We have to be tough on that. Fortunately, the countries of the European Union and also the United States are acting together. I wish the Dutch Government much strength, because it is also possible that the investigations on the MH17 coincide with that Dutch Presidency. I hope that the Union will support the Netherlands. Another point is IS. Yes, I agree with Mr Zijlstra on this: we need to work with those countries that are relevant, for example with Egypt and with Morocco. That is crucial. I believe that President Al-Sisi may not get the Human Rights Tulip. However, we cannot live without Egypt. It is therefore necessary to cooperate closely with that country in the fight against IS. TTIP has been discussed enough. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats in the European Parliament is of the opinion that we do not impose undisputed conditions, as the Labour Party seems to do. It is agreed that we want the internal market, from Hawaii to Helsinki, and we are not going to let that go, so to speak, through a chlorine chicken. For us, that's subordinate. We're gonna talk about how we can better arrange this arbitration. Negotiation means moving on together. All this is necessary in cooperation with the United Kingdom. We must therefore do everything we can to prevent a Brexit.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u30	Mr. Chairman. We are talking today about the State of the European Union. The European Union must be a shield that protects its citizens from exploitation, from violation of fundamental rights and from the growing power of multinationals. In addition, the European Union must be a beacon of freedom and stability in an unbridled world with civil wars around us. The PvdA wants an EU that is less focused on flat economic cooperation alone. The PvdA wants an EU that maintains and strengthens the Dutch and European welfare state. My colleague Paul Tang and I would like to draw attention today to curbing the role of multinationals and to anchoring the European rule of law and the role of the European Union in the world. We have often talked here about social Europe. The PvdA wants to call on the government to make this a spearhead during the Dutch Presidency. The tide has to turn. We are thinking of rules to combat unfair competition in the labour market, to tackle tax avoidance and to ensure legal, social and environmental standards in trade agreements such as TTIP. Countries are often powerless on their own, but together we can be stronger. The current Detachment Directive, which regulates the conditions under which people can work in another country, does not protect workers enough. The directive offers business too many opportunities to exploit people through false structures. This directive will need to be thoroughly revised. When reviewing the directive, let Europe take greater account of the truck driver or construction worker who is exploited by unfair competition or who experiences exploitation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u31	I would also like to ask the PvdA a question about the free trade agreement with America. We have read in the media that the PvdA is becoming increasingly critical. I'm very happy about that. How will that criticism translate? Will it be the line of MEP Jongerius as described in today's NRC? Literally, she says: we already have so many problems with the internal market, we should not make it any bigger; a fundamental change, tough conditions or else we do not agree. Will that also be the line of the House of Representatives, so the message to the cabinet? Or should we take it differently? Will the support remain, albeit more critical, for the use of the cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u32	Over the last few weeks, we have debated TTIP several times, including the government's commitment to the European summit on TTIP. I said the same thing in my speech today. I'd like to tell Mrs Ouwehand again. For the PvdA, it is important that we maintain environmental standards, social standards and also food safety and animal welfare standards so that they do not interfere. The same applies to ISDS, for example. We talked about it before. We have said about this: for us, no private dispute resolution. That is why we also voted last week in favour of the motion in which Mr Segers calls for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u33	I've seen that and, again, I'm happy about that. But I'd like to get it sharp. I've discussed TTIP with the PvdA before. Then there were criticisms and it was intended that this would be the government's commitment. I believe that we have now reached a point where, as a Chamber, we can agree on what the conditions must be before we accept such a treaty. Are we supposed to take the PvdA's criticism like this? Are they now subject to conditions? Isn't there just a message note given to the cabinet? It is now said that if it is not settled, we will not agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u34	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u35	I am pleased for Mrs Maij to be able to give her position on behalf of the PvdA today, because we heard Mrs Ploumen and Mr Timmermans earlier, and today Mr Vos, Mr Tang and Mrs Jongerius. I am glad that we can now add another PvdA position to that whole spectrum.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u36	It's the same point of view over and over again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u37	That's what I'm wondering. What all these views of the PvdA lead to is that there might just be the feeling among people that the PvdA says: no, we don't want it and we don't like it, because there are insoluble problems; so we have to stop. I think that if other parties immediately table a motion stating that it should be stopped, the PvdA will not vote in favour. To get that picture clear, I think Mrs Maij should go a little further than: we are in favour of human rights, animal welfare and other things. 'Cause we are, I think, all here. Those can't be the conditions that make us have a big headline in the paper today that the PvdA wants to quit. Could Mrs Maij, as the sixth spokesperson, perhaps be a little clearer today about what the other five meant?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u38	I think I was quite clear in my answer to Mrs Ouwehand's question. Perhaps Mr Pechtold did not quite hear her question. I said, yes, I did.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u39	So we can easily summarize it in such a way that the image in the media today that the PvdA would say to its own rulers, both in Brussels and here in The Hague, that they should stop, is not true. TTIP can be negotiated. That's what we've been doing for a year and a half. But just like D66 and other parties, the PvdA says: things have to come out of it that do not make it worse for the Netherlands when it comes to our democracy, about the quality of our food and things that ensure that companies can't just waltz over governments and the like. Well, then we're actually on the same page.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u40	It could be that we've agreed before and now. I think it is clear that we have expressed our concerns earlier, also in the same way as in the previous debates on the European Summit and also as I have just said in reply to questions from Mrs Ouwehand. As far as we are concerned, it would be very good if we came to that free trade agreement, but on conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u41	I would also like to clarify the position of the PvdA on TTIP. I was very happy when I read the NRC. I thought: finally, really good!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u42	Hold on, hold on!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u43	I hope I can hold on to that. But the central question is the following. There's a lot of drum roll at the PvdA today. The PvdA says she doesn't approve of it the way it is now and that things have to change. Mrs Maij is a representative of the people. We can send the cabinet to Brussels with an order. What changes should be made to the government's commitment to the creation of TTIP?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u44	The concerns that have been expressed must be addressed. They are formulated as conditions. I have made it very clear that these are environmental conditions, social conditions and the way in which, for example, we have organised animal welfare and food safety. We don't want to bargain with that. We talked about ISDS last time. I think it is clear that, in our view, this is not going to be a private case law, with which we import some sort of claim culture from the United States into Europe. We don't want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u45	We fully agree on ISDS, but look at the developments in that area. Minister Ploumen is working on that. Cases are being adapted, but it remains a dispute resolution which is not really a matter of the ordinary case-law. Does the PvdA say that this needs to be changed, that the cabinet should no longer be heading for it and that ISDS is completely off the table? Mrs Maij formulated some general values that we all support, as Mr Pechtold also said. Should the Minister for Trade's commitment to ISDS change? Do we just have to get the dispute resolution off the table?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u46	I repeat that we voted in favour of Mr Segers' motion this week. It states very clearly that the public must be involved and that our rule of law must be protected. I think this is pretty clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u47	That will require a judgment. In the end, that will have to happen here. We can, of course, be advised, because the extent to which democratic rule of law is undermined and parliamentary control is arbitrary. You're gonna have to test that. If we have that extensive trade agreement before us, with all the ifs and buts and all the bells and whistles, is the PvdA in favour of submitting it to the Council of State with the question of how it relates to the principles that we laid down in that motion this week? Would the PvdA Group support that idea?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u48	The Council of State is a very clever high college we have. Perhaps that could be the case at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u49	Then I'll write that down "maybe." Would you like to present that to the Council of State? It is difficult to assess whether the democratic rule of law is being undermined. If the PvdA Group says that it would be very wise to submit that to the Council of State, I note it with gratitude.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u50	Yes, I had already answered that in the first instance, so this second interruption was actually no longer necessary. Mr. Chairman. In addition to the points we have just discussed, it is also important for us to make tax avoidance less easy in the European Union. My colleague Paul Tang is going to say some commendable words about tax avoidance. The European economy is attracting attention. Economic growth is good, but it must also be a job. Bread on the shelf for employees and not just profits for companies. It is therefore worrying that unemployment remains high, despite our economic growth. In some Member States youth unemployment is already close to 50%. That's way too much. Then there's the rule of law. Democracy, free press, protection against discrimination, freedom of expression and not least a fair and independent process of justice seems to be self-evident, but unfortunately this is not always the case, not even in the Member States of the European Union. The Commission proposes the establishment of a rule of law mechanism to facilitate discussion of abuses in the rule of law and violation of fundamental rights in the EU. We are very much in favour of this proposal. The PvdA regrets that the Council has not responded so enthusiastically and wants to have a more general discussion about the rule of law. The Council shall hold a dialogue on a provisional basis, once a year, without consequences. According to the PvdA, that's not enough. We heard the Minister spoke about this in Leiden on Monday. We would like to know how the Dutch Government is working within the Council to achieve more systematic treatment of the rule of law and fundamental rights in the European Union. Within such a mechanism, sanctions could also be imposed, as Mr Van 't Wout suggested. How does the government feel about that? How will the Netherlands further shape this next year, perhaps even as President of the European Union? Research carried out by the EU Agency for Fundamental Rights shows that there is still a great deal to be done with regard to combating violence against women, combating anti-Semitism and all forms of discrimination, including Roma and Ibt, and with regard to Islamophobia and exploitation in the labour market. Fundamental rights are not just there for the winners and for the happy few, but they must be there for all of us. These fundamental rights should also apply to the population of the candidate countries. The PvdA wants candidate countries to retain a fair perspective of membership, of course if they meet the criteria for economic and democratic governance. Prosperity and fundamental rights are a great asset, not only for ourselves, but also for our neighbours in the Balkans and in Turkey. We'll give them that, too. Of course, the prospect of accession is not unconditional, but we remain united and we do not turn our backs on these countries. The Netherlands has an interest in a strong Europe, which is united, including towards Russia, to which the previous speaker also referred, and which is less dependent on Russia, for example for energy supplies. The signals from some Member States, including Greece and Hungary, are worrying. We need a strong and united Europe that reaches a united hand to neighbouring countries in difficulty, but also acts unitedly when it comes to sanctions and political pressure. The PvdA sees a role for an energy union. In addition to the sustainability, innovation and work involved, a European Energy Union is also a means of independence. More priority really needs to be given to renewable energy, including the investment fund, for example. This dependence on Russian gas will really have to be reduced for the Netherlands and for the European Union. Here too, we see a priority for the Netherlands during the forthcoming presidency. We'd like to hear how the government intends to fill that out. In this context, I would also like to say a few words about immigration. Much has been said on this subject in recent weeks. We believe that this is inextricably linked to EU foreign policy. We want a European asylum and migration system that sets limits, but above all it is also humane. In May, the European Commission will present a vision on migration. We're looking forward to that. Finally, the Netherlands and the Dutch Government rightly regularly criticise the European Commission and European cooperation. In order to be able to negotiate well and to represent the interests of the Netherlands well, you have to sit at the table. In the foreign corner and with the two representatives of the government present at the debate today, that is good, as well as with the representative of finance. However, there is much more national policy that is framed by European agreements, because the problems are cross-border and they need to be tackled jointly. The PvdA calls on the government to always be present with the directors concerned at the Council of Ministers. We call on the government also to indicate in the reports whether the Minister or the Secretary of State was in the chair of the Netherlands during the Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u51	Mr. Chairman. I repeat the words of fellow party member Maij: Europe must be a shield. It must be a Europe that puts citizens at the centre so that they and we can make our own choices in life and together. That state has not yet reached the Union. The Union is for market and currency, but not for people. This must be changed, also in order to restore sound support for Europe. That starts with an agenda for jobs and growth. In Brussels, a change has been made from cutting back and reforming to investing. This change is urgently needed, because investment in Europe is more than 20% lower than before. That is why the Juncker Fund must give a decisive boost to investment, precisely at the insistence of the Social Democrats in the European Parliament. To have that decisive effect on the European economy, there must be additional contributions. In other countries, such as Germany and France, investment platforms are being developed and the provinces have called on the Cabinet to use the Juncker Fund. The EU therefore wants to invest, other countries want to invest and provinces want to invest. The question is whether the Netherlands remains behind or whether it is going to catch on. If so, when? I understand that the cabinet wants the Netherlands to participate in the AIIB. That, of course, raises the question of why in Asia and not here. More jobs and growth are needed, but not enough. Markets in Europe seem to overpower us rather than serve us. We see exploitation, irresponsible behaviour in financial markets, damage to the environment and climate and tax avoidance. Can it be explained that Amazon pays less profit tax than the bookstore in the Netherlands? Is it possible to explain that expenditure on care is being slowed down, while income on income tax is falling? Can it be explained that the name of the Netherlands keeps showing up at slanted tax constructions, like this week's El Dorado gold company that manages to arrange for the Greek government to miss 1.7 million? Is that explainable? No, of course not, no more than Jean-Claude Juncker Luxleaks could explain. Juncker, the President of the European Commission, chose the flight forward and the European Parliament will push him further forward, with proposals for legislation and a committee of inquiry this year. The starting point, as Juncker supports, is that companies pay income tax at the place where they make profits. A logical consequence is that companies report on this in their annual report. I would like to hear whether the cabinet agrees with these two points. I would like to hear how the cabinet views the European approach to the painful problem and whether the delegation from the European Parliament will be welcomed here with open arms. Equally painful is the problem that the 'polluter pays' principle in Europe does not apply to large consumers and that coal even threatens to supplant gas. The proposals for the European Energy Union are therefore more than welcome to the Social Democrats. Energy supply can be safer, cleaner and cheaper. This is an economic but also political cooperation. It makes us more independent from Russian gas, so that we are stronger against Putin's Russia. I would like to hear from the cabinet how it specifically intends to support the European Commission's plans. I would also like to hear the government's position on the joint procurement of gas. This is economically sensible; in the face of Gazprom's sales power, you organise a purchasing power of Europe. It is also politically wise, because that way we are less easily played apart. After all, Russian gas is really used as a means of exerting pressure in foreign policy. This must also be an important part of the Dutch Presidency. Both the approach to tax avoidance and the commitment to the Energy Union are issues that will appear on the agenda of the Dutch Presidency. As far as we are concerned, they will also have to appear on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u52	Mr. Chairman. The situation in the European Union is quite alarming. Our common prosperity is under threat. Socially, it is bad; no less than 25 million people in the European Union are out of work. The euro area is in a deep crisis and Greece may not remain in the euro area. The EU has become so unattractive that Iceland no longer wants to join it and many in the UK want to leave the European Union by referendum. To sum up, the European Union has become a B mark. You'd expect there to be some urgency in the piece we're discussing today. The SP missed that urgency. Does the Prime Minister not see that there is an existential crisis in the European Union? In Greece, the crisis is felt the hardest. There is now a humanitarian crisis, which is linked to the austerity policy imposed by the troika on the country since it entered the financial problems. At present, a solution is still far from being seen, as there is no final agreement on the emergency money to be paid out. I quote the Greek crisis because it concerns the whole of Europe. The consequences of a possible grexit are unmistakable, but it is certain that it would be a turnaround in the European project and possibly even a large-scale disintegration. How does the Minister look back on European policy since the outbreak of the crisis? What expectations does he have about overcoming the continuing crisis in Greece? The question is whether the new European Commission sees this urgency. This Commission, also referred to as "the most political Commission ever," focuses on strategic choices and orientations, but also has a very comprehensive programme, which focuses on further union-building. That's the elephant in the Brussels room. We do not have the courage to talk about political union, but in the meantime the road to it is paved. Monetary union and the Energy Union are two ways of doing this. I'll discuss these both now. The cabinet states that the restoration of the fragile confidence of European citizens does not require a treaty change. I have my doubts as to whether the citizens will be satisfied with the institutional reform agenda set by the Dutch cabinet. The laconic attitude of the cabinet does not seem to take the euroscepticism of Europeans seriously. Take the United Kingdom and France alone, where referendums have been announced on exit from the Union. Meanwhile, the possibility of a grexit has become real. Think of the election results of May 2014, where the Eurosceptic flanks gained a lot of profit. I would like to hear a clear view of these developments from the Prime Minister. How is he going to live up to his promise about a democratic European Union and citizen participation? What specific proposals is he going to make to this effect? How is the Netherlands going to discuss the citizens' initiative in Europe, which, three years after launch, is dying silently because of the legal and bureaucratic wall set up by the European Commission? The cabinet also writes that there is an important added value in the use of political accountability structures through national parliaments. Can the Minister make that concrete here today? That is in the best interest of all of us. This summer, the Commission will present its plans for the future of the euro area. Recently, President Juncker outlined what he had in mind in the context of deeper integration into monetary union. He said: "We do not have an optimal currency union. We have an independent ECB. But we don't have a European government. So we have to make rules to replace the non-existent government." That is a curious remark, because it implicitly states that the European institutions must comply with the rules, as if there were a European government. How does the Prime Minister indicate this remark? Does he share the view of my group that it is an unfortunate idea to create rules that can be exchanged for a European government? The citizens of Europe are not waiting for that at all. How does this relate to the cabinet's desire to strengthen the legitimacy of economic governance in economic and monetary union? This legitimacy is also required at national level. A few days ago, the Minister for Foreign Affairs in Leiden spoke about renewing the European promise. Apparently, he feels that need himself. He paid a great deal of attention to the rule of law and good governance. The SP is also committed to these fundamental European values. For example, I regularly address the situation in Hungary, a country which has slipped under the conservative Prime Minister Orbán into an authoritarian state that does not respect democratic principles and puts human rights at risk, and also applies an abject asylum policy. I therefore call for a periodic review of the quality of the rule of law and compliance with the EU's fundamental values. Similarly, the conditions attached to the use of European funds should be reviewed. The EU may cooperate with the Council of Europe in this regard. EU membership is not without obligation. Is the Minister prepared to argue that the use of European funds should be subject to further conditions in the area of democracy and the rule of law? Finally, I come to the Energy Union. It is clear that the pursuit of an energy union has accelerated. However, I would warn against being short-sighted and hasty with the aim of speeding up the independence of Russian gas. Haste rush is rarely good and so is haste rush. It could even be counterproductive. Does the Minister recognize that? Moreover, gas is the least polluting transitional fuel on the road to a sustainable energy policy. Europe must therefore be driven by sustainability motives and long-term objectives, especially when it comes to the energy transition. Does the Minister share that opinion? At the end of the previous European summit, the Prime Minister critically expressed his views on the transfer of power to Brussels in the field of energy. My group supports that line. Energy is and will remain a national competence as far as the SP is concerned. Moreover, energy generation and energy use are becoming increasingly decentralised. In doing so, European interference is counterproductive. Does the Minister share that view? What does that mean for the Dutch position with regard to the Energy Union? Last Friday's major power failure shows that there are major risks associated with large-scale energy supply. Whole regions suddenly ran out of electricity, including Schiphol, Tata Steel, Media Park, infrastructure and hospitals. Vulnerable energy supply also creates a security problem. In the eyes of the SP, a robust energy system is a decentralised energy system. Does the Minister agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u53	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr De Jong, member of the SP Group in the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u54	Mr. Chairman. According to Het Financieele Dagblad, the SP and other left-wing parties, with their protests against the new generation of trade treaties of the European Union, are throwing everything into the fight to counter progress. The opposite is the case. To speak with ex-VVD ideology Ankersmit: with these treaties we go back to the Hanseatic era. What is the issue with these trade agreements? Let's take the treaty with the US, TTIP. There must be one large internal market, which ultimately runs from Japan to the Baltic States. After all, the aim is to harmonise or mutually recognise as much as possible all the rules that businesses have to deal with. This was and is the hallmark of an internal market developed in Europe since the 1990s. That leads to four main problems. Firstly, there is social dumping. There is a good chance that we will get American conditions on the labour market, because by aligning regulations there will be more and more other cost differences and there will be competition on wages, but also because there will be free movement for professionals. Employment will decrease or good jobs will be converted into bad jobs. Secondly, bureaucracy or a democratic gap. How can we change rules in the future if harmonisation has already taken place within the framework of the Treaty? For example, Mkb'ers write to me that they suffer from rules for construction products. Now you can try to change such a rule via Brussels. The European Parliament and the Member States will then have the last word. How will that work in the future, however? The large companies are allowed to participate in consultations with American and European officials, but can the European Parliament and national governments change the outcome of these consultations, or can they just say yes or no? If they lose the right to make changes, there is a huge democratic gap. If they retain that right, you'll soon need years to renegotiate. Thirdly, how do trade agreements relate to each other? I am thinking, for example, of TTIP and NAFTA. Can the US negotiate with the Commission on the harmonisation of legislation without consultation with Canada or Mexico? Suppose the Trans-Pacific Partnership will be there and there is also a US market with its western neighbours, including Japan, can those countries join in? You're never gonna get out of there, are you? Fourthly, the quality of our legislation. It's been mentioned a lot today. If people's representatives are only allowed to say yes or no to legal adjustments while the big companies are in the first place, what guarantees are there for the protection of general interests such as sustainability, consumer rights and social rights? I'm going into dispute resolution. The Court of Justice of the European Union in Luxembourg sees itself as exclusive in the interpretation of European law; I refer to its opinion on the accession of the European Union to the European Convention on Human Rights. What are the effects of the trade agreements on the European Court of Justice? Does the interpretation of law go through arbitration, private or public...................................................................................................................................................................................................... If not, how will a possible conflict with the case law of the court be resolved? Why is the court not asked for advice, as was done at the ECHR? This week, the Chamber adopted a motion to protect Dutch democracy, the rule of law and values against dispute resolution. However, it is well known that the Commission considers that ratification of trade agreements by Member States is superfluous. The Court in Luxembourg now decides exactly what this is about as a result of the Singapore agreement. What are the consequences if it turns out that ratification is not on the agenda? Then what are the resources of the Netherlands to enforce that? TTIP and similar treaties undermine national and European democracy. They are an attack on general interests and lead to social dumping. So let us be on course and shoot these things off.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u55	Mr. Chairman. Just a year ago, we could not have imagined what the state of the European Union would be like now. Much has been achieved in the economic field in recent years, but we look back on Greece's grip on the euro area, France's special exception, which still exists in the Stability and Growth Pact, and the ongoing problems of morbidity in the financial sector and banking sector. I am not talking about the problems with TTIP, which have already been discussed in detail. We have received the reform programme, but when will we get the draft budget, which will be sent to Brussels by 1 May? Geopolitics in the past year, the Netherlands has been sucked into a game with great powers due to the attack on the MH17. This is difficult for the cabinet, which balances between openness and realpolitik in answering parliamentary questions. The Arab Spring has become an Arab winter, with great consequences for security throughout Europe. While the State of the Union of 2014 was mainly concerned with financial and economic issues, the problems of today are more versatile and dangerous. In this context, we need to see the State of the Union of 2015. Europe must act on complex dossiers. We must ensure that integration goes through and that the Netherlands commits itself blindly to matters that it will regret later. I see that in the European pension file. The Netherlands must be very attentive to the initiatives from Brussels on this dossier. A European approach must not be at the expense of our own system with more than EUR 1,400 billion in Dutch money. Why did the Dutch Government abandon the opportunity to file the pension file as a file that could be deleted when the Commission took office? I would like to raise a number of issues. These are Ukraine and the MH17, tax ruling, the transparency of European decision-making, the EU Presidency and defence. It is the European values of democracy, freedom and the rule of law that have brought down the regime in Ukraine. The CDA believes that the Netherlands should act against abuses and be pontifical for human rights and European values, anywhere in the world. This must also be done in a common European context. In this context, I would like to know why the Union, and the Netherlands in particular, is barely sticking out to Sweden, which is under attack because a courageous Social Democratic Minister is finally telling the truth about women's law in Saudi Arabia. It's very, very bad about that. Is the government prepared to show solidarity with Sweden so that we are not played out against each other every time? As far as MH17 is concerned, I hope that, together with the Members of the European Parliament, we can wait for the investigation report and then ensure that those responsible for this attack will be tried and punished. I have a few specific questions about this. Has there been any response from Russia to see the Minsk II agreement as a reason for pardon and amnesty? After all, we are empty-handed if Russia does so and the perpetrators are coming out of Russia. Does the OSCE have sufficient access and how does the government and the Prime Minister assess the efforts of the past few months in this area? I'd like to briefly name the tax rulings. It is very important that the coordination between the Netherlands and Brussels is accurate. Incorporation from Brussels into the Dutch tax system as such is not acceptable. As a Chamber, we are obliged to address immoral behavior in the financial sector. It is therefore also good that the various Member State tax rulings are examined. Transparency is essential in order to prevent the Netherlands from being set as an example and we are suffering great economic damage. This brings me to the transparency of the European decision-making process. Two weeks ago, during the debate on European funds, I tabled a motion calling for openness. The government has just sent an answer, but I would like to ask here: does it simply want to make public the correspondence it has had with the Union? And does it intend to send the letter she sent as a government to the European Commission not to make the correspondence public, immediately to the Chamber for the second term? We have not had an answer to an earlier question on this. The Chamber simply has a right to know how to deal with a dossier which the government itself says it wants to have the bottom line. The government is not going to let it come to a WOB or a Euro-WOB of a Member of Parliament or a Member of the European Parliament? The government has a number of priorities for the Dutch Presidency. We have received a letter on this subject. If Europe is facing the same number of crises next year as in the past year, the Netherlands will have to have scenarios ready. It must have a scenario in the event that it goes wrong with Greece, goes wrong with Ukraine or goes wrong with migration flows in North Africa. Are there any scenarios? Is there also a scenario about the Brexit mentioned earlier? In addition to the fact that it will be necessary to take action, the Dutch Presidency also offers an excellent opportunity to strengthen the Dutch position within Europe. I would also like to mention this meeting, in which European and national representatives ask ministers to make transparency the subject of the Dutch Presidency. The Netherlands can set a good example. Does the government have any proposals for this and would it like to make transparency a priority? And does it want to come up with an initiative to make the EU truly more transparent? I refer to a better Euro-WOB, whistleblower protection, openness of documents and formal decision lists and presence decisions. I would like to hear a commitment on this point. Finally, I have a comment on Europe and defence. There has been a lot of talk and the Netherlands is very worried. In the east we have Ukraine and in the Middle East ISIS is advancing. Is the Minister prepared to advocate an increase in defence expenditure in the European Union, as agreed in NATO and Wales? The CDA doesn't believe in air bikes like Juncker's plan for a European army. It does believe in bottom-up initiatives, because our security is at stake.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u56	I call Mr Lenaers, Member of the CDA Group of the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u57	Mr. Chairman. It is a great honour for me to be here as a new Member of the European Parliament and to address this House. I understand that it is diplomatically correct to say that, but I can assure you that this is also true. In any case, I think it is extremely important that the interaction between the European Parliament and the House of Representatives should be made even more explicit. We thank you, your members and also your services for the intensive cooperation we have already had. I think that, in the run-up to the Dutch Presidency, this is a very important and necessary investment. As a CDA delegation following the European elections, we started working on the message we received from the electorate: a strong Europe that is ready to face the challenges we face together and, at the same time, a Europe that stays away when matters can be better dealt with by the Member States themselves and, above all, a Europe that does not go beyond the level of detail. There are enough common challenges: globalisation, shifting power relations, changing demographics in the world, climate change and numerous humanitarian crises. Europe has no escape from finding a common response to all these challenges. One of the direct consequences of the instability around us is that the current European asylum and migration policy is undoubtedly inadequate to deal with the scale of the problem. All Member States will have to take responsibility for finding a solution to the large numbers of refugees arriving in Europe. The European Commission will present its proposals in May. I am very curious to see what the government's expectations and commitment are in terms of sharing that challenge. This brings me to the following point: labour migration and the free movement of workers in the EU. As a CDA, we stand for the free movement of workers in the EU, but it must never lead to exploitation, displacement, social dumping and so on. Commissioner Thyssen announced at the beginning of March that she would review the rules, including the rules on posting, and that she would come forward with new plans in the autumn, including in the area of the Detachment Directive. This will mean that it will also play an important role in the Dutch Presidency. At the same time, Commissioner Thyssen criticised the Netherlands for the national enforcement of European rules, for example with regard to the Detaching Directive. I wonder to what extent this criticism is shared by the government and what could happen at national level. Finally, I would ask you, Mr President, to allow me to put an item on the agenda that has not yet been discussed on all the major European issues of today. This comes from the heart for me as a Dutchman from the border region. We must ensure that Dutch and other Europeans living close to the border can make much more explicit use of everyday life and benefit from European cooperation and from the disappearance of borders. Every day, we still notice that there are still a great many problems and challenges in the areas of cross-border work, cross-border care and cross-border business, especially for SMEs. These challenges must be addressed at both national and European level. I call on the government to pay particular attention to this during the Dutch Presidency. This starts with the fact that we must prevent the borders that we have removed on paper in Europe, in the hearts and in the minds of people from being created in an artificial way by matters such as a national excise policy or changes in health legislation that make it extremely difficult for patients in the border region to exercise certain rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u58	Congratulations on this maiden speech, Mr. Lenaers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u59	Mr. Chairman. The Members of our Group in Brussels will not be speaking here today. We believe that in this national parliament only the representatives of the people who have a mandate from the Dutch electorate for the House of Representatives should be allowed to speak. As far as we are concerned, this principle cannot be undermined. The EP is not that important. Mr. Chairman. The State of the Union has been cheated off the State of the Union in the United States... oh, look!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u60	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u61	Mr Pechtold, I read it at the beginning. You had a debate this afternoon. MEPs are not supposed to interrupt...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u62	...I'm ready for Easter weekend. But, I say to Mr Pechtold, you may, of course, just interrupt your colleague from the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u63	May I first introduce myself to Mr Pechtold: I am Bertema of the PVV Group in the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u64	The name is Pechtold, Mr. Beertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u65	Nice to meet you, Mister Pechtold.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u66	I have a question for the honourable Member and I am simply referring to my third interruption. Firstly, I do not think Mr Beertema can get away with saying: the PVV never does. The PVV did in the past. Mr Beertema shakes no now, but I can remember that Mr Madlener was here regularly at the State of the Union and spoke. I would like an explanation on that point. The second point, then, is that I am also using this interruption for a second question, which is that I see a change in compensation in the European Parliament. Where the previous delegation from the PVV always said "€400 per month it is, you have to be able to do anything about it," the current delegation says: "of €4,000 per person per month you have to be able to cover all these costs." I would like to have a little more explanation on both points from Mr Beertema, my colleague in the House of Representatives, rather than just: that is how we do things. Both at the point of "we were never here and never did the word" and at the point of tenfolding of what the PVV fraction touches monthly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u67	As far as the first is concerned, my colleague in the House of Representatives, Mr Pechtold, has a point. I can say that it is a moving insight, but I think I just need to have a conversation with my associate, who apparently escaped this. I do not remember, but Mr Madlener seems to have spoken here. I'll give him credit for that. In any case, we now believe that this should not be done. Perhaps that is because of my influence as European Affairs spokesman. On the second point, I cannot escape the impression that we are talking about the state of the Union, the State of the Union. I have already noticed that all the honourable Members who have spoken have not given up anything, not even Mr Van Baalen, to any interruptions or anything like that. Everyone was doing something with their phone, and it wasn't that interesting. But my colleague Pechtold in the Lower House has found something and it is about something that we have long discussed in a previous debate. Our mandated group in the EP does indeed have a different view. That will be evaluated in due course. That's how we agreed. That's how it is and that's how it stays. Perhaps you think this is a very important point in the context of the great whole of the European Union that we are discussing. But go ahead with a follow-up question; a little sharp.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u68	It is good to note that, in addition to maintaining Strasbourg, the only political group in the European Parliament to do so is the PVV Group, and in addition to the funding of the sister party Front National by Putin, which now includes contributions for expenses. I would also like to mention the change in responsibility here in the Dutch Parliament, also by Members of the European Parliament, who have been elected by the Dutch people. So I see four points on which the PVV, with all its European criticism, should perhaps be somewhat more open to its own voters. That is why I would have liked to give Mr Beertema a chance to explain himself on all four points. Because the first answer was a little thin, I'm gonna give him room for that one more time. So please answer the following questions. Why do we keep Strasbourg? Why is Le Pen being funded by Putin? Why do they touch €4,000 a month and why isn't your colleague here?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u69	We have always acted against the moving circus to Strasbourg. As far as compensation is concerned, I have to tell Mr Pechtold that we have not done so for at least four years, and that is more than all the Members of the European Parliament together, who have touched it all. This has cost the Dutch and European taxpayers a great deal of money, money that we have saved. Perhaps it is a learning moment to ask your dear colleague, who is sitting next to you: would you not even do that, what would you turn in, like the PVV did then? Where was I? I was just getting started. The State of the Union has left the State of the Union in the US and has from the outset been a PR instrument of the political elite in Brussels, which has only one direction of development, namely the federal United States of Europe, which also extends as far east as possible. The fact that our national cabinet adopts that terminology indicates that there is no distance between these federal ambitions of Brussels and the direction of development of this Prime Minister and his cabinet. My first question to the Prime Minister is therefore whether this is indeed his dot on the horizon. The transfer of powers and sovereignty goes on and on. New balloons are constantly being launched, now again to form a European army. The fact that we cannot manage our internal borders ourselves is a very important point. My motion on the Greek threats to flood us with asylum seekers and terrorists has been rejected. That is the most poignant example of the past few months. Greek blackmail threatens hundreds of thousands of fortune seekers and hundreds, perhaps even thousands of IS terrorists, to storm the Schengen area. The Prime Minister and the Cabinet deny that there is a transfer of sovereignty, but in fact that transfer continues in the back chambers of Brussels. A veiled, sneaky transfer of sovereignty. This debate, the State of the Union, is the appropriate time for the Prime Minister to express his views on this matter. He is also a political leader of the VVD, and with that he owes tribute to the President of the liberal family in the European Parliament, Mr Guy Verhofstadt, and he does not take the brunt of all those federal ambitions of the Union. Last week, in the Flemish magazine Knack, he said that if Europe does not become a single federation, it will be removed at world level. I'd like a brief reflection from the Prime Minister on this. Does he want a federation or not? Does he want an EU army, like an EU public prosecutor, an EU police force, and does he ultimately want the EU itself to levy taxes or does he completely exclude them? We therefore reject the naming 'State of the Union'. There is no federal state of Europe, there is no European demos, there is no cultural connection between Henk and Ingrid and the citizens of Moldova, Georgia and Ukraine, the countries with which we have association agreements since today. Those treaties were by the fellow travelers of the EU, so I shall name them, the elite who sit here in parliament, as hammer pieces. I hammered them because I think they deserve debate. In the end, everyone thought so. I want to show that the Europhiles, the fellowtravellers of Brussels, do feel solidarity with Moldova and Greece, but not with Henk and Ingrid, who experience the consequences of the open borders on a daily basis here in The Hague, Rotterdam and everywhere in the Netherlands. After all, they are suffering from labour market displacement, especially in the lower paid jobs. They are faced daily with the consequences of the open borders of Schengen. They are the ones who have to give their taxpayers' money to development projects in the fields of education, justice and justice, while their own care and education are being undermined and the old people's homes closed down. They bring in money and prosperity as a result of the massive redistribution operation that the European Union really is. That is the State of the Union for the electorate of the PVV. The south and east of the Union are made richer with free money, free money being extorted from hard-working citizens in the Member States that are so-called net contributors. This is the State of the Union. The Union has been in a permanent state of crisis since 2009. A currency union cannot exist without a political union. A political union - the federal United States of Europe - cannot exist without a demo, without a people sharing values, of citizens who know each other closely, of neighborhood, of citizens who are willing to show solidarity to that neighbor. Henk and Ingrid share no values with the citizens of Abkhazia. They wish the citizens of Greece, Moldova and Ukraine all the best, but they do not want to give money and prosperity to countries that report to the Dutch border through the ever-closing union, which no longer exists. A few words about the facts of the Union, according to the General Court. In short, for the twentieth time, the European Court of Auditors has not been able to give a positive opinion on the use of the EU funds paid by Henk and Ingrid. The Court of Auditors gives many examples of wasting money and fraudulent behaviour. Our conclusion is that the EU is not functioning. That is the State of the Union in the year of our Lord 2015. The EU does not work when it comes to the internal organisation. The EU is at the end of its story when it comes to its own political ambitions. The EU is a death house waiting for the big blow that will come when Greece's blackmail has been worked out and the political hooligans who have been put there by the Greek demos will lead their country out of the EU. Because a grexit is the only rational outcome of the Greek drama. There will soon be several exits that will mercilessly expose all the ambitions of peace, security and prosperity as ideological madness. I'm just waiting for the rulers to speak out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u70	We're talking about your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u71	I'm working on the right core right now, and you're talking through it. Maybe you don't care, but then you can read it again. I also say to the rulers that there will soon be several exits, which will mercilessly expose all the ambitions of peace, security and prosperity as ideological madness; reckless, ill-thought, blinded by an elitist cosmopolitan ideology that is perfectly dissanged from the reality of Henk and Ingrid. I see my message got through. Be that way, I'll tell the Prime Minister and his government here. Beware of that by recognizing the dangers. Be that as it may, by taking measures now that will allow us to cut back on a controlled basis. This can be done by abandoning Schengen, by reinstating our own borders, by keeping hundreds of thousands of lucky seekers and hundreds of terrorists outside national borders. Be for it by stopping skimming our prosperity and transferring it to the south and the east. Be that as it may, by taking care of and showing solidarity with our own citizens and entrepreneurs who have made the Netherlands what it is. Be united with the citizens in Rotterdam, The Hague, Groningen and Zeeland; they are so much more important than Moldova, Ukraine and Georgia. Be sensible before it's too late.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u72	Thank you very much for your contribution. I give the floor to another colleague from the Lower House, Mr Pechtold van D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u73	Mr. Chairman. A new year in Europe, the springboard to our presidency. What opportunities do we see and what problems do we see? What is the State of Europe in 2015? The cabinet calls for the Commission to remain in line in particular: continuation, progress. But why not progress? Why are Mr Rutte and Mr Koenders not already well in the starting blocks when our Presidency offers the opportunity for the Netherlands to strengthen Europe? How does the Netherlands contribute in 2016 to regaining faith in Europe? What's the ambition there? In a complex world with 28 countries with all these opportunities and threats, how do we ensure a solid basis and sufficient perspective for 500 million Europeans? They now see that the creation of Europe in the 1950s does not work for today's Europe, with 25 million unemployed, including many young people who have little chance of a good future, with a quacking economy and a fragile currency, with great dependence on Putin's gas and on the oil of corrupt regimes and with a democratic deficit. They are bewildered by 220,000 deaths and 3.9 million refugees in and out of Syria. They are concerned about recurring jihadists, about attacks, about the safety of their children and about an aggressive Russia. We need to find an answer to that. The Dutch Presidency must be more than just looking after the issue, and that is not easy. Nevertheless, the coalition often seems to gain from real solutions. Sure, we can say that anyone who travels must die there, die as a martyr instead of answer to a court; a popular opinion in trade-K. Of course, we can say: political and humanitarian refugees? That has nothing to do with us, borders closed. A popular thought there in the coalition banks. Yes, we can say that we need to work more closely with dictators. A deeply cherished wish there in the VVD-box. However, that is not the Europe of D66. We're not traders in fear. We really want to offer optimism and perspective. We must appeal not to the laws of the jungle, but to the laws of the rule of law. We want to make it clear to people in everyday life that the European Union is there for them and that Europe is protecting and strengthening them, now and in the future. This means more democracy in the Member States themselves and in the European Union. Confidence in politics, national and international, is under strong pressure, through promises that are not delivered over €1,000 and not a penny to the Greeks, through the financial crisis that revealed the mistakes of a whole system and through the feeling of losing control over important decisions, national and European. Chosen leaders, more reckonability, more participation in the European Parliament and clarity in the front, are they also in the new contract with Minister Koenders' Europe? I'd like a response. We ask people to abide by the rules, pay taxes and keep agreements. That is what we must do. This year, Rutte's second cabinet spends EUR 13 billion more than it comes in and so they need to be borrowed. We need to look carefully at that. However, the Netherlands is still within the European band. Much more worrying is France, which, like Italy, does not have the budget in order and which is delayed after delay. This has made the rules more flexible. This undermines Europe's credibility. Tackling small countries, such as Ireland and Portugal, and keeping the big ones wet, what are we going to do about it? Parties and politicians must be honest about this. I am looking at the PvdA, a party that first said that the 3% is not a totem pole, when policy was going to be made for the 3%, a government agreement was concluded for the 3% and whose finance minister in Europe is "Mr 3%." Suddenly, a few weeks ago, when it was a campaign, the PvdA said again, "No, I'm kidding, don't necessarily." This undermines confidence, like the so-called tough language of the PvdA now on strengthening economic cooperation between Europe and the United States. My group is closely monitoring the negotiations, keeping a close eye on the cabinet, seeking as much transparency as possible and waiting for agreements to be made.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u74	Of course, I couldn't let this one go. I think the language was just very clear. We have said that we have a number of conditions. Nothing tough language, but simply very strict conditions on environmental standards, on social standards, on food safety and on animal welfare. The same goes for ISDS. That can't be a private dispute resolution thing between three lawyers. It has to be a public system. I don't think that's just a shout. It was very clear and very sharp.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u75	Yet it doesn't seem to everyone. I'm not talking about people who might not follow it that way. Take a Mrs Corrie van Brenn, important within the FNV. She just tweeted enthusiastically after reading NRC: PvdA groups in Brussels and The Hague reject controversial TTIP, fine. That lady, just a citizen in the Netherlands, is now incredibly disappointed. After those five explanations from earlier PvdAers, she was the last to hear the PvdA say, like D66, other parties here in Parliament and also the cabinet: there are a year and a half negotiations, there are strict conditions, we follow that and if that treaty is in place, we will assess that. That's just another citizen who's disappointed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u76	It is a good thing to make this point as clear as possible: if it is not complied with, we are not in favour of it. Period. Ready. I think that's very clear. That is what my colleagues from Brussels have said, as my colleague Jan Vos has put it, and that is what I have just said. Perhaps it was necessary, thanks to Mr Pechtold's interruption, to make that clear once again. It's no, unless.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u77	Yes, but the PvdA is not unique in that! That is also what the cabinet says, and I believe that the PvdA is also in the cabinet. I believe that even a party like the VVD is saying what Mrs Maij is saying now, when that VVD actually says: trade, because it doesn't matter. Everyone says what the PvdA says here. I do not think that even those who are totally opposed are saying at the moment: stop the negotiations, because we do not even want to look at what is happening. Those parties will remain critical. Such an opening in the newspaper might, however, suggest that the PvdA is now going to support a motion saying to the government: stop it. That would be so disappointing for Minister Ploumen. I will therefore mention in my contribution the framework conditions that D66 sets for TTIP, but I think you can apply them seamlessly to those of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u78	I have a question for the leader of the Democrats 66. Last week we voted in this Chamber on a motion about the fact that TTIP is so far-reaching in terms of the transfer of sovereignty that you should actually submit such a treaty to the people by means of a referendum. D66 was against that motion. Why is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u79	Because we are in favour of the corrective referendum, not the 'ask, we are running' referendum.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u80	So that's the only difference. I was rather surprised that D66 voted against this motion, because D66 is in favour of the referendum if there was an amendment to the European Treaty. So Mr Pechtold is now saying that D66 is in favour of a referendum if it is a corrective referendum and not an advisory referendum?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u81	I am surprised and disappointed that the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance already has a position on the results of negotiations that are still going on. D66 says: if there is a substantial change, a referendum can indeed be organised. For example, Mr Klaver has just asked interesting questions about the Council of State, which can determine whether TTIP fits into the treaties we have or whether it is an enlargement. These are the rules of the game that we actually have in all areas within Europe, regardless of TTIP. If TTIP is a substantial adjustment, if sovereignty and such matters are on the agenda, yes, then a referendum can be organised. As far as we are concerned, this is always a correct referendum. This means that the people who collect the signatures can actually put a brake on the legislative process by organising such a referendum. However, these conditions must be met.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u82	Mr Pechtold just said that I let him down, Mr President...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u83	No, Mr. Klaver...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u84	...and I'd hate for him to have to leave the debate with that thought. I therefore ask you to respond again. I am concerned that the D66 electoral programme states that a European Treaty must be submitted to the public. D66 has therefore said before we know exactly what the content of such a European Treaty is, that such a treaty must be submitted to the public. We don't know the details yet, but we all know that TTIP will have far-reaching consequences for sovereignty. That is why it is best to say in advance that we must submit TTIP to the population.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u85	I will reply to this third question in Mr Klaver's interruption. With this disappointment, I would like to avoid that we are only talking about the procedures now, and a little less looking at the content. I would particularly like to talk about the content of the negotiations that have been going on for a year and a half. I hope that's what the Cabinet wants. I do not want this to be put in a referendum in black and white, yes-no, and that the salmonella chicken should be in front of the chlorine chicken. I think it's caricatures. I want to get away from that footage. I don't want to be stuck in those caricatures. I think it is very important that Minister Ploumen negotiates now and that we look at what comes out of these negotiations. I would like us to shape the debates in the Netherlands in such a way that we are not stuck in these caricatures, but that we can see exactly what is going on. What are the advantages and what are the disadvantages? After that, we must ensure that it is in the Dutch Parliament, and I assume that it will also be in the other 27 parliaments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u86	It's not my habit to refer to a VVD guy who once has a good idea, but yes, it just happened that a VVD guy had a good idea. There was a VVD in the European Parliament who, because of his agricultural dossier, really warned about the consequences of TTIP on European agriculture and on European farmers. Indeed, it is expected that the market will be flooded by American products below our standards. This is not at all about caricatures; this is also underlined by reports from the LEI. And even if the market isn't flooded, TTIP could create a dynamic that we already see often. For example, if you want to raise your standards of animal welfare and the environment, for example, there is often a reference to the internal market for................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ They say that this can only be done if the rest of Europe participates. Soon they'll say, "The only way to do that is if America joins us." Why doesn't D66 make the tough condition that that shouldn't happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u87	There are many conditions. I will give you a few more in a moment, but let me say something else first. The 21st century. The United States. Europe. Two of the biggest trading continents. Either they will look more at each other in this century or, in particular, the Americans will look much more at Russia or China, to countries where not only animal rights but also human rights are at a different level. There is now an opportunity to open markets through a trade agreement, and not just to the Dutch business community. Our dredgers are no longer invoked only when the water is literally on the lips after a hurricane. We're gonna have a chance to create jobs there. Even though I would like to challenge Mrs Ouwehand to think about this in the coming period, our standards on animal welfare, the environment, public health and so on, we can get beyond our little frogland by laying down these kinds of things. What's it gonna take? To stick your neck out, to work together and indeed to question the cabinet sharply and to keep it sharp when it comes to the framework conditions, of which I would like to mention a few in the remaining minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u88	Mrs. Ouwehand wants to use her second interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u89	Come on, come on, Mr. Pechtold isn't that naive, is he? There's already an appointment with Canada. The free trade agreement says literally: internationally agreed climate targets, Kyoto, can be implemented, but not if that is a barrier to trade. The import of tar sand oil from Canada, a point on which D66 has supported us, is incredibly bad for nature and the environment. The motion is not being carried out, because the reasoning is that we do not want to impose import restrictions on products that are really harmful to the environment at European borders. And then Mr Pechtold believes that we cannot convince Washington that environmental standards should be raised. Come on!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u90	It's kind of how you stand in life; or you try to convince someone else of your good things. For example, we abolished child labour a good hundred years ago. In the meantime, we have moved on, including by negotiating on it. By the way, this is still an exciting point for our business. After all, how do you deal with countries where there is child labour and working conditions are at all different? As a trading country, for our economy not only depends on countries within the EU but also on countries outside the EU, it is incredibly important that we keep what we have here in terms of quality standards not only for ourselves, but that we in a global world should make sure that as many of our standards as possible become standard elsewhere. If a trade agreement can contribute to this, I would like to take the opportunity to do so. For us, this is the first step. We are always in favour of good economic cooperation, but the Dutch rule of law and shared European values must remain unaffected. I come to the European budget. A budget of EUR 960 billion, as I say to Mrs Ouwehand, EUR 370 billion for agriculture, with billions that are not accounted for every year. A budget that is closed for seven years and is created through vague cow-trading in closed backrooms, so the VVD always calls shame when we have to pay a post-tax but doesn't say anything when we get money back. My group simply wants to put an end to this strange system as soon as possible. Let us therefore take advantage of the Presidency for far-reaching reforms. If this cabinet is prepared to do so, I ask the rulers. Are we going to organise a serious summit as President, with a serious run-up and concrete proposals for improving the European budget? Or is it gonna be a day of talking, cheese sandwich, milk and that's it? I'd like an extensive response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u91	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs In 't Veld, Member of the D66 Group in the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u92	Mr. Chairman. Not only economic agreements should apply to all Europeans, but we must also effectively protect fundamental rights, the rule of law and democracy. The Charter of Fundamental Rights must be as tough as the Stability and Growth Pact. The Commission is taking firm and firm action against cartels, illegal state aid and abuse of market position. Then there'll be billions of fines. However, in muzzling the press, intimidating NGOs, undermining the independence of the judiciary in, for example, Viktor Orbán's Hungary, the European Commission is turning a blind eye. But also the Member States, the Council, including the Netherlands, remain silent. For example, Europe is losing its credibility as a value community and its moral authority in the world. That is why D66 has long advocated binding instruments. Our European Liberal ALDE Group has proposed a pact for democratic governance. This pact can be implemented within the current Treaty and provides a toolbox to monitor and enforce fundamental rights, the rule of law and democratic rules of the game within the EU where necessary. It is a sort of European fundamental rights problem. As in the European Semester in the euro area, Member States are placed along the measuring bar and are given a warning and, where appropriate, sanctions. In the European Parliament, there was broad support for a pact and binding instruments. I was just delighted to hear Mrs Maij of the PvdA argue for stronger mechanisms and sanctions. I welcome it, but her party colleague, Commissioner Timmermans, categorically rejects it. Here's what I'd like to say. The Pact for Democratic Governance proposed by the Liberals also proposes an annual debate on the state of democracy, fundamental rights and the rule of law. That debate will be held at the same time in all national parliaments and in the European Parliament. I would be delighted if the House of Representatives would share and develop this initiative together. Foreign affairs is one of today's biggest challenges: Russia, flows of refugees from Syria, the conflict in the Middle East, the threat of ISIS and 3,000 refugees drowning off the coast of Europe last year, a disgrace on the blazing of Europe. Are Member States going to solve this each for themselves, or are we going to be strong together, and are we going to deal with it as a single Europe? Are we all going to become more independent of Russian gas or are we going to conclude individual contracts with Putin and let him break us up? Do we think it is acceptable that Sweden should receive 81,000 asylum applications, Germany 200,000, the Netherlands 26 000, Portugal 445 and Estonia 155? Last Tuesday, a majority of the Chamber supported a proposal by my colleague Mr Schouw to arrive at a fairer distribution key at European level. But the VVD voted against and even goes so far as to want to close the borders for asylum seekers. What exactly is the message of the cabinet to Europe? I'm here to talk about defense. 2015 is the ninth year that EU Battlegroups are fully ready but not deployed. Mr Zijlstra says: "Look at Libya, a country of 7 million inhabitants. 500 million Europeans failed to maintain the no-fly zone. Big brother America had to come again." Zijlstra calls it a wake-up call. D66 fully agrees with this analysis, but the solution is not only to invest in national defence. It is a question of European cooperation. By the way, the VVD Minister of Defence agrees with that. She is a politician who knows the importance of European integration like no other. Finally, I would like to talk about internal security. A flood of measures has been taken since 2001, but without proper justification and without an evaluation of costs and results. This blatant push through of ever-new rules is in stark contrast to the urge to delete rules in the field of the environment or social affairs. Even Commissioner Timmermans, I call him "the red tape slayer" and refuse to take a critical look at those safety rules. I think this has to be different. In recent years, the Netherlands has had its back on Europe, but that attitude is not enough to meet today's challenges. I ask the cabinet and the Dutch Presidency in 2016 how the Netherlands will return the trust to the citizens so that we, Europeans, can build a better future together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u93	I give the floor to Mr Eickhout, Member of the Green Left Group in the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u94	Mr. Chairman. We'll turn it around. First, the MEP and then the Member of the House of Representatives of GroenLinks. Should anyone have a tendency to interrupt me: I may, but the chairman seems to be strict. In the state of the Union, the cabinet is putting Europe's support and stability at risk. Those are incredibly big words, but I agree. Only 40% of Europeans believe that his or her voice is being heard in the EU. The closing of the European Union's democratic deficit is a necessary condition for GroenLinks to meet the real challenges of the present. We are thinking of rising unemployment, the permanent crisis in the euro area, Russian aggression, the climate crisis, the Energy Union. All these issues call for greater democratic control of the Union. For years, European democracy has been chasing the facts. We had the European Community first and only then a directly elected European Parliament. We first had an internal market, and only then did we have control over the European Parliament to influence the rules. We had Economic and Monetary Union, but in fact we still have not democratically regulated control. It seems as if the cabinet is very much in favour of this second-class democracy. A strong democratic foundation for economic monetary union requires an amendment to the Treaty of Lisbon. Minister Koenders mentioned it last Monday in his speech in Leiden "institutional navel stares." Further political integration in Europe is a giant leap. But in the meantime, we're getting to the TTIP Convention. Does the cabinet believe that this is a far more radical step and that much clearer democratic control is needed in advance before we take the step towards TTIP? We should not make the same mistake, namely to create a larger internal market with the US without democratic control. That is the discussion we need to have now. I will mention a few examples to point out that we already know in advance that this is a much more fundamental choice. Regulatory Corporation is in the TTIP Convention. This means that companies have already come to the table from the US and the EU to determine whether there is a need for regulation at EU and US level. The arbitration panel is also an example. This ensures that companies can counter legislation. There is already fear among legislators to make new legislation. It has already been mentioned: with Canada, the European Commission has withdrawn a tar sand law, fearing that there might be an arbitration case. These are fundamental democratic problems that we already know. I am particularly surprised by the VVD, which always says that it is against giving away sovereignty as soon as it is about the EU. Now we're making a bigger step with TTIP and all I hear is "making a boat." I would like to hear a response from the cabinet to the question of how it sees the fundamental discussion surrounding TTIP and why it has not had this discussion before. In the Council's conclusions we only read that positive arguments on TTIP need to be given and that progress needs to be made. It is unclear to us why you should take that democratic step at this point. The only argument we hear is that it creates jobs. There isn't one study that indicates a lot of job losses with TTIP. Even the European Commission is no longer talking about job creation. One study from Germany shows that if everything from the US is integrated, we will be able to reach about 400,000 additional jobs. On the other hand, the circular economy, which has been withdrawn by the Commission and welcomed by the VVD and the cabinet, provides 580,000 jobs. Why do we never hear this cabinet about things like a green economy or a circular economy, where the real jobs are? All we hear is that it wants to speed up TTIP, which is a much greater degradation of democracy than speeding up our own greening of the economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u95	Then I give the floor to Mr Klaver van GroenLinks. I see a little confusion in section K about the order of the speakers, but that's meant to keep them a little focused. That's been an internal switch.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u96	Mr. Chairman. Just now, my colleague Bas Eickhout made a fervent plea for Europe and, above all, for more democracy in Europe. We see that in more and more areas the power of large, internationally operating companies is increasing. They know how to avoid or turn this regulation into a reality in a number of ways, in a democratic way. There has been a lot of talk about TTIP. In addition, tax avoidance is an appalling example. This week SOMO reported that Greek companies are avoiding tax on a large scale via the Netherlands. How wretched can it be, how cynical, that the Netherlands is turning the screws on Greece in the euro group because it is under-taxing? When it comes to GroenLinks, and now also to the PvdA, we make the fight against tax avoidance a spearhead of the Dutch Presidency of the Council. The Minister of Foreign Affairs says that indirectly. After all, the Minister made the European Council's strategic agenda of June 2014 the Presidency's commitment. Combating tax avoidance is part of this. The State of the Union shows that the cabinet chooses a very cautious role on this issue. Nowhere, but nowhere, does it say that the Netherlands is taking the lead or wants to lead the way, and that while on a number of important issues, such as the automatic exchange of tax rulings, a common corporate tax base, country-by-country reporting, may need to be cut through during the presidency of the Netherlands. Is the Prime Minister prepared to turn this waiting role in the field of tax avoidance into a pioneering role? Finally, I would like to comment on the Energy Union. GroenLinks believes it is of the utmost importance that we rehab of our fossil addiction. An ambitious commitment to energy saving is essential for this. That is why it is even more disappointing that the European Commission, in its Communication on the Energy Union, is pretending that it is a matter of fact that the EU does not want to go beyond 27% energy savings by 2030. That is only the position of the European Council. The European Parliament has opted for 40% energy savings by 2030 as a binding target, with national sub-targets. This disagreement has been going on for six months now. It has not been resolved after the last euro summit. In the Netherlands, however, some changes have been made. The need to further close the gas tap in Groningen has now become clear to everyone. This means that our country has even more interest in energy saving, whether or not it is through European agreements, especially if we want to prevent the European Union becoming even more dependent on Putin's gas. I did not hear anyone applaud Mr Kamp's suggestion that we should start importing more Russian gas. With the 40% energy saving target advocated by the European Parliament, the EU will have to import as much as 40% less guests by 2030. The disagreement between the Heads of Government and the European Parliament will come to light again when a number of European laws on energy saving need to be strengthened in view of the 2030 targets. These include the revision of the Energy Saving Directive, the Directive on the energy performance of buildings, the Energy Labels Directive and the Ecodesign Directive and the Regulations on vehicle emissions. Is the Prime Minister prepared to opt for an ambitious commitment, with maximum energy savings, in all these proposals?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u97	Mr. Chairman. Europe's miracle is that so many different countries and communities, so many different citizens with so many religious, cultural and ethnic differences, have joined forces. No more war, but reconciliation. Not armed peace, but real peace. Cooperation and the pursuit of justice and prosperity. Robert Schuman, one of the founding fathers of the European Coal and Steel Community and with it of the European Union, spoke of 'a change in the fate of these regions, which had to manufacture weapons of war for a long time, of which they themselves have been victims on a regular basis'. After decades of slow integration, it was the accelerated integration that has unleashed centrifugal forces in Europe over the past decade. The cabinet writes about this in the State of the Union. I refer to the European Constitution and, more recently, to the concentration of political power at the time of the euro crisis, for example through plans for binding Member State contracts. For many European citizens, Brussels' concentration of power went too fast and too far. It is precisely in order to maintain the original European ideals and to maintain the confidence of the citizens that it is crucial to limit Europe, in power and in size. I ask the cabinet why no more work is being done on the "Kompetenzkatalog," an idea of Joschka Fischer. The Prime Minister promised last year that he would deal with this in the State of the Union, but he is now referring only to the Treaty of Lisbon, while a clear limitation of tasks and powers would create a great deal of confidence. Why isn't that being done any more? Meanwhile, the United Kingdom is threatening to leave the Union, while the accession of Turkey is still being negotiated. Both are threatening to support the Union. In a Brexit we lose an old partner and the Netherlands loses its bridge function between the United Kingdom and the rest of the continent. When Turkey joins, we ask for the capacity of the people of Europe. What is the government actually doing to give the United Kingdom more comfort? How much extra space can be provided to prevent a Brexit, especially if the Netherlands takes over the presidency? And how long do the negotiations with Turkey have to drag on before we finally put an end to them? A lot of critical questions have been asked about TTIP. I agree with that. The cabinet praises TTIP's opportunities, but there are major concerns in society about the democratic rule of law and dispute settlement. In the meantime, the European Union is continuing its negotiations and is trying to redirect Minister Ploumen. What are the red lines for the cabinet? The Court has set out clear lines with regard to justice, democratic control and free democratic decision-making, here in Parliament. I also ask the cabinet what it thinks of the idea that TTIP, if there is a treaty containing all its clauses, should be submitted to the Council of State with a view to ascertaining whether it does indeed undermine our democratic rule of law. Finally. The Netherlands will be President of the European Union. I ask the government whether, in addition to the elements already included in the intentions, special attention can be paid to emerging anti-Semitism, to religious freedom as one of the pillars of foreign policy, which is not mentioned either, or to the fight against trafficking in human beings. The 2012 EU Strategy expires in 2016. How does the cabinet assess the European Union's commitment in this respect? How does it contribute to a renewed commitment to the fight against trafficking in human beings?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u98	Mr. Chairman. I would like to talk about three themes: the European identity, which I may soon be finished with, anti-Semitism and the Court of Justice. First, the European identity. Western Europe is surrounded by instability. This applies to both the eastern and southern regions. In this respect, Western Europe is a beacon of peace, security and stability. We have to be careful about that. There is a great deal to lose for the European community. In this light, it is poignant to note that Europe lacks a necessary, inspiring and binding influence, as it once was found in Christianity. Remembrances of the Christian past have almost been replaced by their counterparts. From the SGP we think about the protection of life, marriage, sexual morality and the place of Sunday. Christianity offered a wealth of identity and self-knowledge. How do we defend our original European culture against potentially threatening emerging cultures? What is the opposite of our modern culture? Do we have anything to offer for that? This question is crucial, but Europe has no answer to it. Unfortunately, the State of the European Union has no answer to this either. The European Union is no longer a coherent community of values. This is perhaps best illustrated by sometimes Rousseauian-like pleas for coercion to come to such a community of values, if necessary by coercion. Let us look for the link from the diversity that characterizes Europe and which has grown historically, with respect for local and national democratic decision-making. I'd like to get a response from the cabinet. Then I come to my second point, anti-Semitism. For one particular population group there seems to be less and less room in Europe: the Jews. I do not need to repeat the terrible attacks on Jews and the numerous anti-Semitic incidents and grave violations. Jews are increasingly feeling unsafe. Many consider immigration. Sometimes it was even called for, not least because of the presence of large groups of Muslims. You then expect a jumping indignation, a broad sense of "we must not let this happen again." We must call on the Islamic community to recognise and combat this problem in its own circle. That's where it has to be. It is high time that the Muslim community in Europe itself expressed a stronger rebuttal against the radical interpretation of Islam on this point. In the State of the European Union you expect a flaming statement, but unfortunately, none of that. The word "anti-Semitism" is not even mentioned. How is this possible? I would remind you of the Dijkgraaf motion (21501, No. 874) which explicitly called for this issue to be discussed at European level. Why has it not been discussed with a letter in the State of the European Union? The SGP would like to invite the Prime Minister to make an unequivocal statement that he will do so during the Dutch Presidency. Finally, I come to the Court. The Court of Justice plays a special role throughout the process of European unification. For this Court, the interpretation of treaties and regulations is not primarily concerned with the intention of the various Member States, but rather with the question of which interpretation is best suited to the European integration process. This reeks of the Brinkhorst c.s. motion. (15049 (R1100), No. 16) from 1980, which stated that "the provisions of the Constitution should be interpreted in the event of doubt in such a way that it does not hinder the process of European integration." So this is an inflection of the Constitution by motion. Talk about sneaking power transfer and power transfer. Fortunately, this motion was withdrawn in 2013 by the Van der Staaij/Slob motion (21501-20, no. 732), but the Court still builds on this way of thinking, this legal principle of the effect utile. By definition, the Court is based on an interpretation of treaties which promote European integration. Is the Cabinet prepared to explore the possibilities to promote the replacement of this principle of law by, for example, strict application of the principle of subsidiarity by the judiciary? Mr President, thank you for your boundless patience.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u99	I call Mr Van Dalen, Member of the European Parliament, for the combination of the Christian Union and the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u100	Mr. Chairman. Commission President Juncker started with a classic grand gesture: an investment plan. Several hundred billions must push Europe forward in the run-up to the people, but bear in mind that little new money will be available. By far the largest sum of this plan is obtained by relabelling already allocated money. The plan can therefore be particularly unfavourable for the Netherlands. Our country benefits from good infrastructure facilities. They're the circulation of our economy. Therefore, provinces, municipalities and companies have submitted many requests for co-financing from the budget for trans-European networks. That is precisely the budget that seems to be affected by Juncker's plan. That is why my message to this house is: be alert and critical of this plan. I would also like to hear the reaction of the cabinet to this. What's to be done? At the last European elections, we saw a trend that has been going on for 30 years, namely that the number of voters going to the polls in Europe is falling. Although Europe and the European Parliament have gained more power, it does not attract citizens. Citizens show that they have little faith in even more power for Europe. That is why I advise the incoming EU President, the Netherlands, to do everything possible to restore people's confidence in Europe. This can be done, for example, by being cautious with new regulations and, above all, by enforcing and implementing commitments already made. This can also be done by making every effort to prevent a Brexit and to improve European procurement policy. Now too much work needs to be done on a small tender. That's gotta be different. The title 'State of the Union' is exactly in line with a point I would like to make on behalf of my colleague Mr Belder. He wants a democratic and competitive Union that works for all citizens, with a big line under "all." The Jewish minority in the Netherlands and in many other European Member States is facing increasing anti-Semitism. It is a disgrace, especially in view of the painful history of Jews in Europe, that many of them are seriously considering fleeing Europe and leaving for Israel. My colleague believes that it is a good idea to take a stand against this. He would like to refer to the contribution made by former Minister Timmermans in this house. As Commissioner, he reiterated his position. The worrying position of the Jews requires words and deeds. Mr Belder would like to hear how the cabinet will set up the fight against anti-Semitism in Brussels and how this matter will be on the agenda of the Dutch Presidency in the first half of 2016. Finally, I come to relations between the EU and China. My colleague, Mr Belder, is the rapporteur for relations between the EU and China in the European Parliament's Committee on Foreign Affairs. In that capacity, he was recently in Taiwan. He saw a thriving economy and a multitude of opportunities for Dutch and European business. The honourable Member is saddened that fear of China means that these opportunities are hardly being exploited to date. This fear underlines the importance of a strong and united European position, with the Member States no longer being played out against each other. My colleague's question is, therefore, whether the cabinet is prepared to commit itself to such a common policy, in which constructive trade relations are pursued with both China and Taiwan.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u101	Mr. Chairman. There is a huge gap between the citizen and politics. Citizens have no confidence in their directors in The Hague. I could put up all kinds of theories here about how it works for a number of drivers, but I don't. I would like to make the assumption here that it is partly because people expect us to do the things that are needed here in The Hague, but that a significant part of the control has been transferred to Brussels. And if it is up to this cabinet and the European Commission, that part is even going in the direction of Washington. The forthcoming treaty with the United States for even more free trade, the contested TTIP, leaves little of our own opportunities to do something for the environment, animal welfare, human rights and working conditions. The Animal Party wonders whether it is really the greatest problem of our generation that the already inconspicuous world free trade still has a few obstacles. We do not think that is the case. In fact, we believe that the major problems facing this generation are in terms of keeping the earth alive, of taking control of climate change, because global warming is a major threat, not least to the people in developing countries who have not caused these climate changes. The disturbing loss of biodiversity has still not stopped our critical natural capital. All this is related to the aggressive trade policy at the European Commission's intercession. 75% of citizens demand a strong government to deal with these problems, because you simply cannot do it on your own. But the European Union does not have the public interests of a healthy and clean environment, nature conservation and ensuring global food security high on the agenda. The goal is economic growth above all else. So this translates into an aggressive trade policy, which is determined by an unelected European Commission, where business has a far too thick a finger. Anyone who wants to do something for the environment on behalf of the citizen will get the lid on, because Brussels is not allowed to do that. And soon, thanks to TTIP, we will hear: Washington won't let us. Compliance with internationally agreed climate targets should only be allowed if it is not a barrier to trade. So much for the sad European climate policy. Mr Pechtold has just said that he does not think there is any party here that says: stop with the trade agreement! Well, the Animal Party says this has to be done. We think that the time and energy of officials of the European Commission, and of all of us, should be used to remove a few barriers to trade, while our time and energy should be in keeping the earth alive and complying with the climate agreements. In the face of critical citizens, the cabinet is always claiming that Europe must only interfere with matters that it really needs to interfere with, but that is these matters. It cannot be decided by industry that the environmental agreements that exist have had a significant impact, which means that a European Member State that wants to do something for the environment must take into account the interests of business. We see it with the continuing bee mortality. This Chamber has said that the dangerous agricultural poisons must be removed from the market, whereas, according to European rules, this can only be done if it does not affect business. We have to stop that road. As far as the Animal Party is concerned, the Cabinet in Europe can say that further negotiations on TTIP are not necessary. And those who would still like to look at the results of this, we would like to ask for clear conditions, as we have seen in the Labour Party. D66 also tries to move a bit in that direction. If these agreements are at the expense of democracy, of our policy freedom to do things for nature, the environment and animal welfare and, for example, for protecting our own agriculture, we say "no'. I'm gonna go all the parties to do that with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u102	Mr. Chairman. Never more war and never again hunger; these were the main pillars on which the European Union was built. But who's gonna believe that? Because of the persistent desire for enlargement and economic imperialism of the European Union, peace is under pressure and 1 billion people go to bed every night with hunger. The balance is lost. Unbridled ambitions for economic growth and expansion always win in Brussels. Human rights, working conditions, health care, clean air, our environment, safety; everything is put aside for economic growth time and time again. Human rights and the interests of animals, nature and the environment must always be replaced. It is therefore a good thing that the cabinet says that it will work for a more democratic Europe. That is urgently needed, but at the same time it is also unbelievable. We see that the Cabinet, like the Commission, is committed to TTIP. Despite all the fine words about all kinds of conditions to be laid down, and despite the fact that it has been said that our values and our rules should not go backwards, we can already see that things are getting worse. Let me give you a few examples. Think, for example, of the 31 hormone-distorting agricultural toxins. The European Commission allows these toxins, knowing that these substances are very harmful to our health and the environment. Yet they remain seated and are allowed on our food and in our environment. The European Commission should have done something about this in 2012, but it does nothing but slow it down. I'd like to know from this cabinet what it's gonna do. Will it continue to expose the Dutch citizens to poison if Brussels does not take steps? Surely it can't be a coincidence that these hormone disruptors just stay on our market and be used? After all, we see that they are also admitted to the United States. Another example is products from cloned animals, such as clone meat. In America that is already big business, but in Europe we are not waiting for that. Over 90% of all attempts to clone animals failed. We see a lot of miscarriages. We see deformed, sick and dead animals. Cloning is basically your purest animal abuse. Citizens and farmers don't want it. Nevertheless, the European Commission refuses to come up with proper legislation. Is it a coincidence that these clone products are only in the interests of American biotech companies? Can the government promise to support proposals for a ban on cloned animal products? I would like to remind the Prime Minister that the Chamber asked for this in 2011. There are still many examples of things where we are in danger of losing our grip. For example, genetically modified products, hormone meat and chlorine chickens. These are all things that will be literally pushed down our throats by America. The Party for Animals does not see that as more democracy. The Animal Party considers peace and security, food and water for all and protection of the rights of people and animals more important than expansion drive and short-sighted profit drive. I also believe that European agricultural subsidies should be abolished.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u103	Mr. Chairman. The leader of our UKIP sister party, Mr Farage, was right when he said that democracy and the EU are opposites. There is even an elite who wants to push through the European superstate undemocratically. Their embodiment is the current leader of the European Commission, Mr Juncker. Step by step, he wants to abolish the nation state until there is no return; abject and infamous. There are still many EU nightmares coming towards us: a possible accession of Turkey, EU taxes and an EU army. I also mention the continuing flow of billions of euros from north to south and hundreds of thousands of asylum seekers from south to north. That is the European Union's strategic agenda. Stronger sanctions against aggressive Russia are urgently needed. The fact that Greece wants to take the sanctions off the table shows that its loyalty lies with the Russians. It is time for the EU to say goodbye to Athens. It is also extremely worrying that certain parties in the European Parliament should defend Moscow's expansion policy. That attitude undermines security in Europe. Russian involvement in bringing down the MH17 is becoming increasingly difficult to deny. What will our Prime Minister do if there is no doubt that Putin's regime is wholly or partly responsible? The Netherlands is at a crossroads in its history. Are we choosing a European superstate or are we going back to the origins of economic cooperation? My group chooses the latter. Therefore, the current EU needs to be dismantled.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u104	That is the end of the first term on the part of the Chamber. We are now going to suspend for dinner break and then give the government the opportunity to respond in the first term to all the questions that have been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u105	Mr. Chairman. I would like to make a few general comments on Europe. Then I will address the questions raised in connection with EMU, Greece, taxation, EFSI, pensions and MFF. I will go into the questions that have been asked about MH17, about anti-Semitism and about Brexit. All the other questions will be answered by the Foreign Minister, who is armed to the teeth to do so, so that should work. First of all, something in a general sense about Europe. This cabinet stands for Europe along three lines. Firstly, we want Europe to be effective and concentrate on its core tasks. Secondly, we want Europe to deliver growth, jobs and security. Thirdly, we want a Europe that helps to defend our interests and values in a world that is changing greatly. Then you will find that by working together in the European Union, the Netherlands also wins in terms of prosperity and influence. At the same time, we must be realistic and we must note that the European interest is declining relatively in terms of the size of the population, but also in terms of the size of the European economy, also in view of the growth of Asia and recently in Africa, America and South America. That is why it is particularly urgent that we, as the Netherlands, should increase our influence in that beautiful continent. In the government's view, this does not require a European government or a federation. What is needed is to implement agreements, modernise our economies and work together for stability in the region. The Foreign Minister will be speaking shortly about TTIP. All sorts of concerns that have been expressed are also my concerns and those of the cabinet. I also think that we can work that out with each other, including in Europe. I would point out that from the relative change in Europe's position in the world and the increasing importance of the position of the Netherlands in Europe, TTIP, apart from all the benefits it will bring in terms of increasing prosperity, is also important to further anchor America in the transatlantic relationship. Of course, we have this transatlantic relationship along NATO's lines, but a strong free trade agreement will contribute to further anchoring Europe and America in a transatlantic relationship, which is all the more important now that we see that America has recently become increasingly oriented towards Asia. Having said that, I shall begin with a number of questions about EMU and Greece. We have discussed this recently in the preparation and follow-up of the last European Council. Deal's a deal. Our position is well known: Greece must now cough up this list and be judged by the troika, at least by the institutions formally known as troika, the TIFKAT, which will have to be judged by the ECB, the IMF and the Commission. They have to agree on that. Then there will be a discussion in the eurogroup and then implementation will have to take place. Then there could be room for a payment under the last tranche of the aid package. The whole story is known. It is now up to the Greeks to show whether they are serious about this. Then the question has also been asked: what lessons can you learn from five years of crisis management? I've been doing this job for four and a half years. I took office on 14 October 2010, which was six months, eight months, nine months after the outbreak of the Greek crisis. I think you should note that the euro area is now much more stable and stronger than it was then. The design of the ESM, the further development of bank cooperation, the further strengthening of the internal market, the fact that countries such as Ireland, Portugal and Spain, as well as Cyprus, have now made far-reaching changes to their support programmes, which now strengthen them, generally leads to a stronger euro area. It is much stronger at the moment than in 2010. Then there are questions about taxes. Can I say that the Netherlands fully supports the fight against international tax avoidance? In the international context, action is being taken against aggressive tax planning by multinationals. We are deeply involved in this. We also want to play a leading role in increasing transparency. The exchange of information on rulings is part of that approach. Agreements are made with Germany on the exchange of information with regard to rulings. During the EU Presidency, the Netherlands will also work to combat tax avoidance and tax fraud. This is an important part of the strategic agenda and thus of the commitment of the Dutch Presidency of the EU. We welcome the European Commission's new directive on automatic exchange of information on rulings. Yes, the cabinet will cooperate with the European Parliament's TAXE Committee of Inquiry, which is also in line with the Klaver motion. The Secretary of State for Finance has already reported that no more information will be sent to the EP than is made available to the national parliament. Some comments have been made on the Juncker Fund, the EFSI. How does the Netherlands view that? I agree with those who say that a wonderful lever is being used. About EUR 21 billion will be EUR 315 billion. I've said before: I'd like to do that in private too. I don't like it in this job, I hurry to add, but someday I might like this kind of thing again. On paper, there is an amount of 315 billion. That is also important for us, because we want to participate in it, of course. We are therefore working with stakeholders in the Netherlands to explore the possibilities for a platform that ensures that we can make maximum use of it. We also bring parties together: provinces, business and relevant ministries. It is true that some countries have already announced co-financing, but I would point out that concrete projects still have to be found for these amounts. In addition, projects for funding could be submitted over the next three years. The Netherlands is in the front wagon with regard to the Juncker Fund. On pensions, I can report that Secretary of State Klijnsma sent the answers today to the written questions that have been asked. There's not so much news to report. Coreper - the high diplomatic consultations in Brussels - an agreement was reached in December with which the Netherlands can agree. We have met every point. That was also discussed in the Chamber. The position has not changed. There is no reason for the Commission to withdraw. The proposal is now in the hands of the European Parliament. The Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment will keep the Chamber informed. Then the Multiannual Financial Framework or the Multiannual Financial Framework. I remember the night sitting on that. I have just repeated that in a small circle. The shaver was just in time to at least do the press conference somewhat decent. It's a bizarre process. We have often discussed the 7 year cycle here. I am referring above all to the fact that we are still spending so much money in this seven-year cycle which has nothing to do with growth or innovation. We have previously taken up the gauntlet as a cabinet and said that we want to look at the MFF as part of the Presidency. That is also the context in which we are now looking at the seminar. We want to ensure that we have a debate in Europe. The first steps must now be taken, and there is also close contact with Luxembourg. The results of this can then, if necessary, be restored during our own presidency. The commitments made in previous debates on this subject, including those made to Mr Pechtold, are being implemented, as I say to Mr Sjoerdsma. Finally, on the issue of wider economic cooperation, I would like to point out that I too attach great importance to cross-border cooperation. Of course, we have them in all kinds of areas with Germany and Belgium. I refer to the labour market, education, infrastructure, disaster management and nature protection. We believe that this cooperation facilitates economic growth and jobs. Let us be realistic, this also contributes to a better functioning European Union market. The border regions have action lists to see what opportunities there are and what obstacles there are. The Chamber is regularly informed about this. That happened recently, on 3 February. These are talks I have myself with the Prime Minister of the Länder in Germany and Geert Bourgeois, the Prime Minister of Flanders. I now come to the MH-17 and the OSCE. I can inform the Chamber that the situation in and around the disaster area is being closely monitored. The mission is intended to resume work as soon as possible. The OSCE can play a positive role in gaining access to the disaster area, where it has the network and local expertise. In the past year, I would like to say this again here, thanks to the OSCE, a great deal has already been achieved. Nor have we been delayed by the fact that, in a number of cases, we have not been able to go in there ourselves or to talk directly to separatists, also because of our views on international diplomacy and our relations with Ukraine. Thanks to the OSCE, this has never led to unnecessary delays. In that sense, it is therefore very good that the mandate of the mission was extended last month. We are working intensively on further cooperation with the OSCE on MH-17 and on Security Council Resolution 2166 and Security Council Resolution 2202, which reaffirmed a number of issues from Resolution 2166. I report this because the Chamber knows that there is an oral commitment from the President of Ukraine regarding the guarantee that those responsible for bringing down the MH-17 will not be covered by the amnesty law. That is a point from February. This is also reflected in Ukrainian legislation. In fact, we were already working on this at Minsk I. So that didn't occur in February. It was already very important at Minsk I. A resolution was then adopted by Parliament, a legislative proposal. That hasn't been signed by the president yet. That, too, ruled out the crimes like MH-17. This also applies to resolution 2166 and the other Security Council resolution, which Russia has also voted for. The international community has therefore ensured in paragraph 11 that those responsible for this issue will be kept accountable and that all states will co-operate. In addition, the Convention on the fight against unlawful conduct in civil aviation also applies. The Convention provides, inter alia, that perpetrators of such crimes must be extradited or tried. Russia, Ukraine and the Netherlands are parties to this treaty, so we see no reason to ask for further guarantees on this particular issue of Russia and Ukraine.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u106	I am very pleased that the government has asked for these guarantees in a bilateral discussion with President Poroshenko of Ukraine. The other country you'd like to ask for could be Russia. That is why I am asking the government whether this has been raised in any bilateral talks with Russia, just as it is being discussed in talks with Ukraine. If Russia sees the Minsk II agreements as a reason for amnesty, they could appeal to them if the perpetrators were in Russia. Has the Prime Minister at any time been assured by Russia that they will not?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u107	We do not think that is necessary, because the legislative proposal adopted by the Ukrainian Parliament in September on the basis of Minsk I already excluded this type of atrocity. The bill now before us in Ukraine is based on it, also referring to Minsk II, and has the same insurance again. In addition, we have also supported the Security Council resolutions, supported by Russia. We also have the Convention on the fight against unlawful behaviour in civil aviation. We believe that this is now closed from three sides. I know that Mr Omtzigt insists on this, but I do not think that is necessary. So we are not in agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u108	I sincerely appreciate the government's commitment to this. However, I ask that question because it is good to have the guarantees of those countries that their interpretation is the same before a suspect is in the picture. Both countries are parties to the Minsk Agreement. They can then say that the Minsk agreement is above the treaties that the Prime Minister just mentioned, because countries voluntarily waive certain rights to prosecute persons. If there was a suspect in Russia, is the Prime Minister sure that Russia will cooperate in the trial of that person?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u109	That is a very different matter and a very different question. The question was whether, on the basis of the Minsk agreements, there was reason to fear that extradition under the Minsk agreements would not be possible. The Minsk Agreement refers to Ukraine's mandate to make an amnesty law. It was already made at Minsk I. It was referred to in Minsk II, or in "Minsk follow-up" from February. It was therefore already foreseen that, at the request of the Netherlands, this type of crime would be excluded. This was also immediately recognised by Ukraine after our insistence. That didn't take much of our work. This is once again excluded from Minsk II, which refers to the September bill already adopted by the Ukrainian Parliament and signed by the President. So this has really been slammed on all sides. Now the general question is asked whether we have asked the Russians if they could cooperate in the extradition of Russians as the scenario would be true that Russians are guilty of taking down MH17. That general question is, of course, not at the moment. The question now arises as to whether Minsk and the Amnesty Act would raise the risk of non-exclusion of this type of crime. In response to that question, I am convinced that we have now done everything we can.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u110	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u111	I come to the terrible case of anti-Semitism. The Chamber called on the Cabinet to address the issue of non-discrimination, including anti-Semitism, at European level. That's what we've done along a number of tracks. I can tell those present that we are at the forefront of the rule of law and human rights in Europe. For example, we have successfully initiated an annual dialogue in the Council on developments in the field of the rule of law. The cabinet is committed to a more consistent focus in the Council on the protection of fundamental rights. This also provides a platform for tackling discrimination. The Netherlands is also actively working on the EU working group on combating hate crime. In doing so, we have always placed our input in the context of the broad approach to discrimination. Finally, the Netherlands is committed to improving cooperation in the field of non-discrimination within the newly established high level group on non-discrimination, equal treatment and diversity. We continue to work within the Council of Europe and the OSCE to strengthen our approach to discrimination and to protect the fundamental rights and values of the European Union. The issues of rule of law and human rights will also be issues during the Dutch Presidency, for example in the framework of the General Affairs Council. We have also included this in the Presidency's letter. This will also provide a platform to keep this theme, including the terrible subject of anti-Semitism, high on the agenda. I could agree from A to Z with the aversion of anti-Semitism as expressed by Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u112	I thank the Prime Minister for this explanation. It is valuable if this is done in the context of non-discrimination. However, we see that the specific attention to the specific evil of anti-Semitism is snowing under, precisely by pulling it so wide. We also see this in all kinds of reports. That is why we have asked very explicitly not only to pay attention to this within that broad framework, but also to make anti-Semitism explicit. There is a need to look explicitly for measures to reverse that evil. Because if we put everything together, we will have an opaque grain. This will not ultimately be effective in combating this particular form of evil. Other forms of non-discrimination also need their own approach. Anti-Semitism is on the rise in Europe, but also in the Netherlands. I would therefore ask that anti-Semitism, when the Netherlands is President of the Council, should be set up as such and explicitly. I would like to say this in a motion later, and I would appreciate it if the Prime Minister would give a favourable response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u113	I'll wait for the motion. More generally, however, I can assure Mr Bishop that when I speak here about the state of law and how to combat discrimination, anti-Semitism is, of course, one of the key points in my view, because it is such a horrific and disgusting way in Europe too. I believe, and I can also conclude from experience, that the inclusion of anti-Semitism in the context of the wider issue of discrimination is more effective than separate. After all, you can have all kinds of discussions. Some will say: why should this be highlighted in relation to other matters? Mr Bishop and I will immediately reach out to each other and say: we have good arguments for that. But then you are often an hour further into the discussion before you get to the issue yourself. If you embed it in a broader fight against discrimination with the emphasis on anti-Semitism, that's more effective, that's my experience. But I'd like to wait for the motion. As always in the case of SGP motions, we will try to take a positive look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u114	I would like to make a plea for a very specific approach, precisely because of the background of a threatening exodus of Jews from Europe towards Israel and Israel's call to leave Europe in particular. Surely it is crucial that at such a time, just at such a time, there should be a joint statement that this should be a safe continent, especially for Jewish minorities.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u115	I agree. Again, we don't have to convince each other. Preaching to the converted, I would almost say to Mr Segers. I do believe that the effectiveness of this debate in Europe and the chance of a good commonality increase if the discussion remains embedded in the wider fight against discrimination. That's just a tactical concept. That is not an opinion on the importance of the subject, because we are totally in agreement on that. If you want to achieve something in this area in Europe, it is more powerful to do so, as Timmermans described in his impressive speech, in the context of the wider issue of discrimination.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u116	What exactly are we supposed to imagine in this broader context? Can the Prime Minister elaborate on that? Is Islam criticism one of those things?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u117	Then you talk about combating discrimination. I don't think we need to explain to each other what we mean by that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u118	Well, you are talking so consistently about that broader context. Well, that's a little vague, isn't it? Doesn't it make sense to explain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u119	That's not my opinion. You ask my opinion on this matter. I think it would be good and even useful to give the issue of anti-Semitism an independent place in the debate in Europe. But then the question is whether you achieve anything with that. My view is that many countries will then say: once, but when we talk about this, we want to talk about the broader issue of discrimination and, in that context, we want to address this aspect. Then you come to the question of effectiveness over desirability. We all agree on the desirability. I am only going to give it to the Chamber, and I am also going to say it to Mr Bishop, because of the motion he comes with, that you have to weigh it up all the time. The Netherlands can also say that it is only for a very focused discussion on anti-Semitism. But then there is a chance in Europe that there is insufficient support and that people will say: we find it strange that you do not include this in the wider issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u120	Obviously, you don't want to isolate anti-Semitism from it. You let it go, and you let the calls from Israel be for what they are. You're gonna let it go, that's for sure. That is also a point of view.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u121	That's total bullshit. I am just saying that I agree with those who say that anti-Semitism is so terrible that it calls for an independent discussion. Mr Beertema, you are always empty-handed and therefore also clean-handed. I can do the same by raising it in Europe and then getting no one to join me. However, I note that if you include it in a broader approach to discrimination, you will have the opportunity to raise the terrible issue. In my opinion, as the Netherlands, you not only want to be right, but you also want to be right. And that's the tactical side I approach. Questions have been asked about the United Kingdom. I can say to the Chamber that I am convinced that it is very important for the Netherlands and the European Union that the UK remains part of that European Union, especially given the current complex economic and political conditions. That is also something we constantly point out in our contacts with the UK. I personally do that to my colleague, and we actually do that at all levels. Frans Timmermans has been given a special responsibility. In fact, he is the head of all the difficult projects, including these, in the European Commission. I'm glad he is, because I think he can do a good job. The Netherlands is always trying to involve the United Kingdom in the reform agenda for the European Union. We must note that we sometimes have differences of opinion. The UK wants to go further and the Netherlands, as we know, is not waiting for a treaty change. The Netherlands does not want to interfere with the principle of the free movement of persons, but believes that, without prejudice to that principle, a number of excrements that the UK is also calling attention to can be addressed very well. Europe is a common market alongside a value community. Countries with strong market orientation, such as the United Kingdom, but also Poland and Denmark, all pull on the same side of the rope as the Netherlands when it comes to strengthening the internal market and expanding the possibilities of free trade. The United Kingdom, apart from Europe, is a medium-sized economy in the middle of the Atlantic. My view and that of the cabinet is that it would be a great loss if the United Kingdom were to move away from it. That is not in the interests of the United Kingdom itself, neither of Europe nor of America. Having said all that, we must now wait for the elections. Tonight is the big debate between seven political leaders in England. The election will take place on 7 May. We will then have to look at which government is forming there and what the wishes of that government are. I can assure the Chamber that I personally, the cabinet and the European Commission will continue to speak intensively with Frans Timmermans with the British Government to ensure that we can and want to stay with Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u122	I share all these fine words about the importance of the United Kingdom within the European Union, but that is an understatement of something we find. The question then is how to achieve this. Does the Prime Minister see opportunities to offer the United Kingdom extra comfort? If the United Kingdom is looking at a renegotiation and a redeployment of responsibilities, will there be room, even when the Netherlands is President of the Union, to offer the country extra comfort?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u123	Then the United Kingdom will have to tell us exactly what it wants. One of the things it wants is that the phrase "an ever closer union" comes out of the Treaty. I told my English colleague that this is a dead sentence. Nobody is in favour of an 'an ever closer union' anymore, so why are you going to amend a dead sentence in the European Treaty? Anyway, apparently it's a huge symbol for the British. However, the removal of this sentence will lead to a change in the Treaty. In our Constitution, too, there are all kinds of things that you might now write down with modern views, something else, and you might wonder if they make sense. The heart of the Constitution stands and some sentences are from 1983 or even from the nineteenth century. This is such a line. Since the British have to get that sentence out, we're getting a treaty change. You can also say, as we set out in the European Council of 31 August 2014, that you are going to talk to each other about what you mean by "an ever closer union." If you're going to see what's behind that, it's about the countries and not about a superstate or a federal state. It means bringing together countries and peoples in Europe, who are working together further. Actually, that's what we're doing. It is not about the transfer of powers or federalism. You can also talk about the interpretation of that kind of sentence. This will prevent the need for a treaty change to take that sentence out. In my opinion, this type of comfort can indeed be created without giving in completely to 'o, we are going to get that sentence out', which has far-reaching consequences, because then all kinds of other countries want to change everything about the Treaty as well. Take, for example, the theme of the free movement of persons. The British themselves still have in their legislation opportunities within the Treaty to tighten up what we have already done in the Netherlands, for example on access to social security. Sometimes the British have not yet done so, for reasons which are not quite clear to me. Sometimes, very practically, that has to do with their computer systems. We have therefore said: take what you can do within the Treaty first; you can do so much more before you change the Treaty on that point. The free movement of persons is a cornerstone, a cornerstone, of the European Union for the Netherlands. We also note that there are issues. Look at the Asscher agenda. We're working on that. But at the core, that's not something we want to give up. When you talk to the British about what they really want, it is not so much about the precise treaty texts, but more about their practical translation. For example, we are trying to work with the British on all kinds of dossiers to find very practical solutions to their concerns. If that's enough, we need to check it out. We do notice that the British like the fact that the Netherlands is therefore grieving, that they feel involved with us and that they are also very happy that Frans Timmermans has that portfolio. To put it to his British: the proof of the pudding will be the food after May 7th.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u124	Those efforts are good, including those of the Dutch side and the Dutch Commissioner, to see if we can sort out those concerns. That one sentence could be a gesture made to the British electorate. If it is indeed only semantics, does the Prime Minister exclude such a gesture, merely to make the gesture to the electorate to convince him to stay with the Union?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u125	That's awfully hard to say. You're already starting to let go of the principle that we'd rather not have a treaty change. If you pull out a sentence like that, you'll have a treaty change. You run the risk that all kinds of other countries want things too. The Netherlands has always said so far that it also wants to change everything if there is a treaty change. However, we are not going to argue in favour of a treaty amendment, because we know that we will then detach a very complicated process with referenda in a number of Member States. Moreover, it is not the case that the Netherlands can determine it. If we were to come out with the United Kingdom on these aspects, you would still have to get the other countries involved. I notice that in many countries there is a willingness to see what you can do in terms of interpretation: what exactly is meant and can we look up the boundaries of a few things to meet the British? It's hard to describe a "as-dan" situation now when it hangs on a sentence like that. I think you need to start weighing up again, in Europe, with all of us. You can be assured that we put a lot of energy into it. In its foreign policy, the Netherlands has always sought a balance with Germany, France and the United Kingdom. Germany has great interests. This relationship is very close in the area of trade, EMU, a strong euro. The relationship with France is strong in the areas of security and foreign policy and with the United Kingdom in the areas of free trade and the Europe of jobs. You will have a much more etatistic Europe without the United Kingdom. I'd say that's a huge loss. Mr President, I politely suggest that you give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u126	I give the floor to the Foreign Minister for his answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u127	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Members of the House of Representatives and the European Parliament for the questions they have asked. I think today is a nice meeting, the State of the Union. From this day forward, we will be working hard for a year to preside over Europe every day. I would like to make a number of introductory remarks about the Presidency, how we want to deal with it and how we want to work with the national parliament and the European Parliament. I would like to make a few preliminary remarks on internal and external trust in the Union. I will then go through the questions raised by the Chamber: external policy, the rule of law and the rule of law initiative, a social Europe, climate and energy, TTIP, competence of the Union and, finally, all kinds of elements relating to corruption, good governance and the simplification agenda, i.e. the functioning of the European Union. The European Union started in 2015 with a newly elected European Parliament, a new Commission, a new permanent President of the European Council and a new High Representative for Foreign and Security Policy. This State of the Union is the first since the European Union. I would like to quote the motto of the Italian Presidency of the Council, which made a fresh start: a Europe that further restores confidence, that delivers to its citizens, that stands for the protection of individual freedoms, that acts strongly against extremism and radicalisation, both internally and externally, and that stands for security and standards. I believe that confidence in Europe is now essential, both economically and politically: both internally and externally. The Prime Minister has already said something about delivering for its citizens with regard to growth and jobs. On the protection of individual freedoms, I will say something about the state-of-the-art initiative. Finally, we come to talk about safety and standards when it comes to TTIP. We are not against Europe. We're right in the middle of it. In times of international tension in Europe, our values, our mutual trust and our agenda are more important than ever. This is why the cabinet has worked hard in recent years to increase the focus, balance and legitimacy of the Union within the existing framework. This commitment has led to the strategic agenda, partly because of Dutch initiatives, of five objectives. We're really gonna focus on key issues and not on side issues. That is also what we are going to try to feed on other Member States, in an interinstitutional agreement. There is cooperation between the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission with one work programme, with those five main points, where we really want to have an impact on the people of Europe. During the Presidency, the Netherlands wants to use this and contribute to the objectives of the strategic agenda. These are well known: growth and jobs, protection and participation, energy and climate, security, freedom and justice, and effective action in the world. That's what the questions are about. Next year at this time, we will be in the EU Presidency and play a key role in European cooperation. The Netherlands wants to be an efficient and effective President, as an honour broker between the Council, the Commission and the European Parliament. That's not always easy. Questions have also been asked about centrifugal forces, which I will come back to. That is a considerable responsibility, because, as has been said this afternoon, we are facing major challenges not only economically but also wider in terms of the climate. We have the climate negotiations at the end of this year. It concerns climate and energy, social justice, freedom and security at the borders of the Union. The role of the EU President has changed dramatically since the Treaty of Lisbon. The Foreign Affairs Council is chaired by the High Representative and there is a permanent President of the European Council. That means that the two rulers who are here, the Prime Minister and I, do not have to lead any counsel, but all our colleagues do. In the letters to the Chamber, they indicated exactly where they could place their own accents and how they would like to perform that function as a honest broker. As a result, the rotating Presidency has changed its character. We are now facilitators or honest smokers, all English words. This is a good term for this cabinet between the Member States and the Council, the Commission and the European Parliament. The success of the Dutch Presidency will therefore be assessed in part on the basis of how we perform in Brussels. We need the Chamber for that, too. We have to do this together, of course with different responsibilities and sometimes different visions, but the Netherlands is put on the map there. If we are to build bridges, we must invest in relations with the European Parliament and, of course, with the Commission, so that we can have our contacts fully in order during the Presidency. We must also be well positioned within the Council and know our colleagues so that we can do business quickly, if necessary. We have a pretty good track record there, I say to the Labour Party. The presence of Dutch rulers has always been good, compared to that of other countries. 80% of all councils represent the Netherlands at ministerial level. This number will only increase further in the run-up to the Presidency. Of course, our goal is 100% presence. All this does not mean that our only ambition lies in technology. I have just mentioned the values and said that challenges are emerging, such as the external threat and the major climate issue. We'd like to try to make accents of our own. This certainly applies to me as Foreign Minister, but also to all colleagues in the cabinet. In their field they want to put things down and draw attention to matters that the Netherlands considers important. The letter of 28 January gives an overview of the collective ambition of the cabinet. We will keep a close eye on the balance between doing things of our own within the somewhat more limited freedom of movement that the Presidency has in 2016; as much as possible embedded in the Commission's work programme. We are trying to ensure that there will also be results. The Chamber has a major role to play in this. National parliaments have their own role and responsibility when it comes to strengthening democratic legitimacy. Much has been said about whether there is a European public opinion, a demos. Is that abhorring the way in which Europe is institutionalized? The unique thing about today's sitting is that Members of the European Parliament and of the national parliament work together here, in what one might call a shared sovereignty, to express the wishes of Dutch citizens in this country and in Europe. The Dutch Presidency therefore offers Parliament an excellent opportunity to place and keep democratic legitimacy firmly on the agenda. I think that's necessary, too. There's still a lot of mistrust. Last year we saw a low turnout in the European elections. Those are truths. On the one hand, better use can be made of existing possibilities for parliamentary involvement at national level. On the other hand, existing instruments at European level can be used more actively through enhanced cooperation with other national parliaments. This includes enhanced cooperation in the exchange of information between national parliaments and the European Parliament, inter alia within the context of COSAC and the Article 13 Conference. This has, of course, to do with European Monetary Union, and with the question that the people often ask about it: how can we get a better grip on it? I think that's important. Indeed, there are quite a few centrifugal forces, which are a great task for our continent. We were talking about the Brexit earlier. The prevention of this is of strategic importance for the Netherlands. How can we avoid severe differences between North and South, sometimes also in the positions of the conflicts in the divisions around Europe, Russia in particular? I believe that the unity of Europe is important. The example of something where we really need to achieve something together, where internal convergence and cooperation is very important for me to say it undiplomatically, if I may say so, to be able to make a dent in a package of butter, is the crisis in Ukraine. I think Mr Van Baalen has already pointed that out. I also think that is important. Our strength lies in the unity, out and inside. I think it's more important now than ever. I'll come back later on to the external threats. We have a period behind terror and terrorist threats, threats to our standards and values. In order to ensure that European countries can effectively retain their identity, we need to form a certain degree of unity, particularly in the fight against terrorism and in the common foreign policy. I think it's very important that we do that. This means that the national states and the European institutions are increasingly a prerequisite for each other's proper functioning. If national states function well in terms of good governance, trust between the citizens of countries is easier. It must be invested in it. I think it is important to underline this in the European agenda for good governance. In view of the time available, I will not repeat my comments on this matter on Monday. I've drawn up a list. I'll start with foreign policy. Then I will move on to the rule of law, social Europe, energy, TTIP and the debate on good governance within Europe. I would like to make a comment before that on the news that has reached us this evening about a hostage situation at a university in Kenya, which has at least cost 70 deaths. That's a terrible event. There is still much unclear, but of course I strongly reject these actions on behalf of the Dutch Government. We sympathize with the families. I say this tonight, because I believe that we should all be very aware of the need to combat terrorism and terrorist organisations, wherever they are in the world. In this case, it is probably Al-Shabaab, who is constantly trying to destabilise that important series of countries in East Africa. It has been pointed out that the world is messing around outside the European Union like never before. I would just like to say that security for European citizens has not been given in Europe. We have often said it: the illusion of a new world order is pierced. That is why we have to sail sharply to the wind. We need to strike a good balance between realism and idealism. Homeland security and foreign threats go hand in hand. This means that we need to look very closely at how we can work better together at European level. We can't do this alone. The national state is truly an illusion in this area. We must invest in this together, not only in human rights policy, both internally and externally, but also, of course, in our common security and defence policy. The Dutch Government has made a large number of proposals for this. We see important opportunities for the new High Representative to really develop concrete strategies, for example for the threats from Libya, Syria and Iraq. I think it is important to work together on this and to give it an extra cadence during our presidency. Two threats have been mentioned. In view of the time, of course, I cannot go into it very fundamentally. We must show the Russian Federation and Ukraine a combination of the fist and the open hand from Europe. The fist means: opportunity makes the thief. So make sure you work well together, both in the field of defence and in the field of security. That is not the same as a European army. A European army means giving up sovereignty immediately to a European commander-in-chief. That's not the point. There is an enormous amount of work to be done between European countries, including in the area of Battle Groups. That's what was mentioned tonight. They're very important. We've had them a long time. They've never been used before. Every time a country is in that Battle Group, it says, "Maybe that's not such a good idea right now." There's a lot more to be said about that. It is important that we make progress in this area in an essential way with the European strategy that will be developed from June onwards. It will have to be very operational and much more specific, including as regards the integration of instruments for the east and south of us. This strategy must be directed against extremism. It concerns cooperation between intelligence services, including border control, and a very proactive human rights policy. We defend our values and values. That is why I went to Tunis this weekend to show that we want to promote human rights and progress everywhere without double standards. Without naivety, I say immediately, even when it comes to the east side and how we deal with sanctions. Those sanctions have just been extended until the end of the year, in the framework of Minsk. They'll look back on it in June. So we will sail sharply to the wind. I have been asked what I think of the Greek Prime Minister's statement that he does not agree with the sanctions and that they are a dead end. I am familiar with these statements, but I would like to make it very clear that all sanctions so far have been taken unanimously. Greece has also committed itself to this. An integrated strategy always means that military and political resources and other instruments are prerequisites for each other. In the end, only the formulation of a political strategy in Iraq, Syria and Libya can ensure that you can also seek a military or mission-like role. Of course, this will still have to be decided. There are risks and opportunities. One thing is clear: in the changing strategic environment in which we are now sitting, coherence and coherence are essential for Europe's security. I agree with a large majority of the Chamber. Two specific questions have been asked about external policy. The first one was about Taiwan. It is well known that the Dutch Government is pursuing a one-China policy. This means that the government in Beijing is the legitimate government. That actually determines the limits to our presence in and relations with Taiwan. They are also fine, including in the field of trade and other matters where we work together. We have also been asked to stop the negotiations with Turkey. We have had good debates on the situation in Turkey on a regular basis. There is sufficient evidence of Turkey. That is what the European Union is doing. The Netherlands also plays an important role in this. For a candidate country that has committed itself to European values and standards, Turkey still has many shortcomings. I believe that a complete hand-off policy is really not the solution. There is also broad agreement on this in the EU. We are, of course, in contact with the Turkish Government on all kinds of important issues. This government is also important in the fight against terror. She's picking up refugees. However, we also have very strict conditions for accession. I think everyone can see that it's not a matter of today or tomorrow. It is well known that stopping requires unanimity. There is no support for this in other Member States. Then I come to the question of the rule of law. This is essential. Many of you have today stressed the importance of maintaining standards and values in the pluralism of the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u128	Mr Sjoerdsma has an interruption. He replaced Mr Pechtold, who had to leave for personal reasons.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u129	Mr. Pechtold and I switched teams for a while, but we're team D66. A few days ago, the Minister advocated a new, sober, European contract. One of the characteristics of a contract is that it is mandatory. I've been trying to figure out exactly what this new contract would be. It seemed a little noncommittal to me. Can the Minister explain what the new, sober European contract is? I think it was linked, among other things, to the European Union's foreign policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u130	That it would be a little noncommittal, I have also read somewhere, in one newspaper; fortunately not in a lot. The story of Monday was a rather essential question, namely where we are now in Europe. I've analyzed the centrifugal forces and how we've made progress in a few essential areas, including growth and jobs. I have listened carefully to the Chamber and I have realised that there have been slow but certainly two directions that may be mutually exclusive and do not necessarily lead to the most sensible policy of achieving results for our citizens. On the one hand, you can think within the illusion that you can still do anything within the national state. That's what you hear, even in this Parliament. On the other hand, you can make a huge flight forward. At the moment, both citizens and many institutions are not yet ready to do so. Perhaps they do not think that flight forward is desirable either. The discussion is then often limited to the question of whether a treaty change is necessary or not. You can analyze where the public's trust is stuck. There are problems both within states and between states. Whatever step you want to take, you need to restore trust first. That must be your priority. This is about good governance in the institutions of Europe. I shall come back to that later with rather concrete proposals on corruption and performance, which I have been asked to do. Those are matters that matter. We must also have confidence in the functioning of the state elsewhere. I have mentioned a number of examples of this. That goes from very down-to-earth issues like bankruptcy legislation to citizens' confidence elsewhere in their own state. In fact, this is becoming more and more a prerequisite for European cooperation. That has been developed in an agenda; I would like to discuss it with the Chamber. This has less to do with direct foreign policy, except that it will become increasingly difficult to act together against external threats if there is no mutual trust. The Chamber itself has given a number of examples of this, such as a lack of confidence between North and South and the feeling that the Russian Federation is trying to win souls, so to speak, in a number of Member States. That situation is full of risks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u131	I share the Minister's analysis, as well as his statement that it is very complicated. However, I do not know how this relates. The Minister outlined that there was a lack of trust among peoples in their governments and that there was a lack of trust between Member States. I think this is mostly true. However, what step, apart from improving governance, needs to be taken to restore that confidence does not make it clear to me. It may be an agenda for good governance or an agenda for improving public administration, but I do not see very well what the new, sober contract would be that Europe will now take that much-needed step forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u132	This depends on the results and on very concrete proposals in different areas, involving citizens and making alliances of countries. I shall come back to that when it comes to energy, climate, social policy and good governance in the institutions. These are very concrete contributions which will enable us to restore European cooperation and citizens' confidence. I will start with the first initiative, because everything is in the real world, I think. That is the rule of law initiative. All members have spoken about the importance of good governance, the rule of law and trust. They are, of course, closely linked. The cabinet remains committed to strengthening the rule of law in the Member States. We welcome the progress that has been made in connection with a Dutch initiative. First of all, this is an enhanced Commission commitment as a preliminary stage in Article 7, which could lead to a breach of the value of the Union, which could lead to the withdrawal of voting rights. There has been a brief discussion of possible sanctions. I would also mention an annual constitutional dialogue in the Council and the possibility of thematic debates in the Council. That may sound very bureaucratic, but it is essential. So far, the countries have not wanted that. They wanted to say something about human rights elsewhere, but not about the core values of the functioning of their own states and their institutions. Of course, the cabinet was even more ambitious, I say towards the PvdA Group. For example, it would have liked to have seen the possibility of regular debates in the Council. However, in view of the Council's field of action, this was now the most feasible. I'm very open about that. We talked about that. The United Kingdom and Hungary already had very large reserves, but there were more critics who feared interference in internal affairs or the transfer of powers to the European Union. I shall now come back to Mr Sjoerdsma's point. So you can do a lot of things with a concrete agenda that has nothing to do with the transfer of powers, but where it is already important, for example, that such a Dutch initiative should create the confidence of citizens, including in the Netherlands, that you should be able to appeal to a citizen in Hungary, France or Spain in the way the rule of law works. That important step has been taken. There is now the possibility of a political dialogue in the Council. This can create a culture in which we can address each other. We will also organise a dialogue on this subject under the Dutch Presidency. It must be as effective as possible. I will spare those present today the details, but I really think that is a breakthrough. The Netherlands has been behind this and is co-initiator. It got through with a lot of trouble. This can therefore also have a specific impact on the points that Members consider important. The second specific point on that agenda is a social Europe. There is always a lot of discussion about this. Should this be a transfer of powers or should we let it go as it is? It is also essential for confidence that all citizens see the outcome of Europe. The European Union must therefore not be an elite project, as has been said today, but is in the service of our citizens. This requires growth and jobs through sustainable economic recovery. We put our hands up for that. The Prime Minister has spoken about this before. It therefore requires sustainable reforms and a further deepening of the internal market. However, our citizens are asking for more. Nor should we close our eyes to the shadows that exist, for example when it comes to the free movement of workers within the internal market. Mr Asscher's agenda is well known. He's pulling it really hard. Citizens who do not now benefit from the integrated European labour market deserve the perspective they deserve. We must recognise that there are not merely positive effects. So that's what we need to work on. Let me say again to Mr Sjoerdsma that we have a very specific agenda for this. It cannot, of course, be the case that Dutch lorry drivers have to watch as other Europeans take over their jobs, because they are put to work far below our social standards. It may be a good time for some employers, but it is not good for us or for the people who fill these jobs. Here too: restore confidence. It is therefore important to raise the issue of social dumping, underpayment and exploitation at European level. The Netherlands has played a leading role in the debate on freedom of movement in recent years. We believe that freedom of movement is essential. It is also part of a European Monetary Union. We want to promote equal pay for equal work for all workers in the same country. We are well aware of the discussions about this, about false constructions and the like, and about the way in which we intend to work it out. The European Commission has announced a targeted evaluation of the Detaching Directive and the Social Security Coordination Regulation. We expect that evaluation to be completed by the end of 2015. Minister Asscher has promised the Chamber that he will soon respond to the ESC's opinion on labour migration and that he will also formulate his first commitment to this package. There is then a process of discussion at European level. It is a concrete agenda and it is a question of creating and taking confidence. We will work hard to build a coalition to solve this problem. I have been asked what progress has been made on the targeted evaluation of the Detachment Directive. As has already been said, the European Commission is already making a targeted assessment of this directive. We expect that evaluation by the end of 2015. Then Minister Asscher will respond to that. I believe that Members are well aware of our debate on Europe's social policy. It is essential, it does not require a treaty change and it does not require the transfer of competences. This is a specific agenda in which national states have a primary responsibility. Then I come to another important point of substance. I think that's what a lot of citizens are doing. They want to know what we're going to do to keep our air clean. As you know, the Netherlands is committed within Europe to achieving climate objectives globally. The European Union has managed to make an offer as one of the first parties to the new global climate agreement. This offer is in line with the commitments made at the European Council in October: 40% CO reduction in 2030 compared to 1990. This is always a very complicated discussion, because countries have different mixes of how they want to meet their objectives and objectives in the European framework. Next year, the Commission will work on how the European Union will transpose the plan of at least 40% CO reduction into its own legislation. This year will also discuss how the challenges for sectors not covered by emissions trading will be shared among the Member States. Two key EU climate policy instruments will be negotiated under the Dutch Presidency. I would like to say straight away that we have these negotiations at the end of the year. Basically, during this period, the European Union in particular operates strategically. I myself attended the climate negotiations in 2009. There the European Union had made a wonderful proposal and everyone said it was great, but then there was no further negotiation with the European Union. That is what we are going to avoid now, also by means of a strategic approach. The Secretary of State for Infrastructure and the Environment is working on this. The Commissioner in Europe is also concerned about this. Cost effectiveness is a starting point of Dutch policy. I think that's essential, too. It's a national mix. We are committed to energy efficiency. After all, saving energy contributes to sustainability and to reducing dependence on fossil energy. As an example, energy labelling for household appliances. Given the potential for savings, it is essential to meet our energy efficiency targets in a cost-effective manner. There were a number of questions put by Mr Klaver in this area. In the context of energy saving, the Netherlands is committed to an ambitious European resource policy, a resource policy that ensures energy saving and preserves the level playing field in the internal market. This will also form the basis for the cabinet's commitment to the issues mentioned by Mr Klaver: energy labelling, the Ecodesign and Energy Efficiency Directive. In this context, you will soon be able to talk about the Energy Union and reducing Russia's dependence. How can you cooperate efficiently in the field of energy? The Energy Union package is an important package. This is welcomed by the Cabinet. The proposals for the Energy Union should lead to three things that we have discussed before: affordable energy, energy security and more renewable energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u133	Mr Klaver has another question on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u134	This minister has been with us for a long time. In 2009, he was in Copenhagen, as he himself said. I was at that climate summit myself. The Minister also knows that if agreements are made that are not binding, they often do not lead to the desired effect. That is why the crucial question is: will the agreements on savings, for example, also be binding targets? That is not in the Council conclusions. Is the cabinet going to make an effort to do this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u135	Yes, the cabinet is committed to binding guidelines in the field of the Paris agreements. I do not know whether it will succeed in getting binding directives, but that is our commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u136	The Minister refers to the Paris agreements, but this is also about what is going to happen in Europe. So it's not just about the climate summit. It is about the question: what can we achieve within Europe itself? It is crucial that Europe, regardless of what is going to happen at the important summit in Paris, also opts for binding agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u137	But once again, Europe opts for binding agreements in Paris. Then we wait and see what happens in Paris. This will also be translated within the percentages that will apply to the mix in the Netherlands, where the question is how this is worked out. We have also concluded an energy agreement for this. Let me come back to the Energy Union, because this is such an important point. Many of you have asked questions about this. These are three essential elements: affordable energy, energy security and renewable energy. With the unrest at the eastern borders of Europe, the focus on energy security has grown considerably. I agree with Mr Van Baalen that this is right. The Energy Union shall take the necessary measures to increase energy security. The main commitment of the cabinet is the internal energy market. Let me give you a few examples, not to take too much time on this point. Where energy can flow freely through the Union, the capacity to cope with energy shortages will be increased and the vulnerability of Member States will be reduced. Similarly, dependence on Russian gas, for example, is falling. At the European Council on 19 March, we drew up conclusions on the Energy Union, calling for more emphasis on implementing existing internal energy market legislation, but also on the strict enforcement by the Commission. A question has also been asked about question bundles. First of all, let me stress the need for the Commission to come forward with detailed proposals. It's still under negotiation. In that sense, nothing has yet been agreed. The Council conclusions of 19 March call on the Commission to offer opportunities for voluntary demand pooling. This seems to me to be the right method, in line, of course, with the WTO and with the law of the European Union. We await the Commission's investigations on this point. Of course, there are two sides to it. You want to do it as efficiently as possible and you want to ensure that there is no undue competition in areas of subsidies. Nor do you want a Russian state-owned company to determine exactly how Europe's energy flows should run. That is the package in which we are seeking a solution that is in line with existing legislation in the European Union. Mr Van Bommel said that a decentralised energy system is a robust system and he asked how the cabinet sees it. As I have indicated, the cabinet sees the internal energy market as the best way to increase security. An integrated approach to a well-functioning internal market, a good infrastructure with sufficient opportunities to import from the outside, for example via ports or pipelines or with LNG energy, and an ambitious climate and energy policy provide the best assurance for this. He also asked whether there should be a transfer of powers. I understand that he doesn't want that either. One of the evergreens in the field of energy is the plea of practically all Member States, including the Netherlands, to keep the competence on the national energy mix national. The cabinet believes that this competence should remain national. The Energy Union has nothing to do with that. Then I'll get to TTIP. It is good that there is an important debate about it, here in the Chamber, the national parliament, and the European Parliament. A number of elements have been raised, such as social standards, environmental standards and animal welfare. A system to arrive at arbitration is also mentioned. Let me first say that international trade policy is, of course, essential for the European Union. That includes her competence. The Prime Minister has just said how important it is in a multipolar world to ensure that you also have an impact on the standards that are coming. This is very important not only for the Netherlands, but also for Europe. In this sense, trade is not only an economic asset. It has also become a social good and a geopolitical good. There's a complicated mix of interests behind it. It has rightly been said that content is at least above speed. That is also the position of the Dutch Government. It's about jobs and growth. I'll say something about that in a moment. But it is also about the same values that we have in the economic field. It is precisely at this time that it is important to strengthen the links between the European Union and the United States. We want to do this in an active manner, but let me be clear right at the beginning of the discussion: for the Cabinet, the high level of protection in terms of health, social standards, environmental legislation and consumer and legal protection is not under discussion. The European Union's negotiating documents on sanitary and phytosanitary measures contain nothing about chlorine chickens and hormone meat. We do not want to negotiate this at all. It is quite clear that we want to preserve our own right to protect humans, animals and plants and our own regulatory frameworks. Mutual recognition of standards in TTIP will only be possible if the standards are maintained. Let me say a few things about that, given the questions that have been asked. First of all, how are the negotiations going? Again, for the Dutch government quality is above speed. That does not mean that you have to postpone it indefinitely, but we want those values to be protected. When exactly results can be expected, it is difficult to estimate at this time. At the start of the negotiations, both the European Union and the United States expressed the ambition to conclude the TTIP negotiations before the end of President Obama's second term. Nevertheless, the end of 2015 seems to us to be a very ambitious deadline. A lot of discussion about jobs is possible. I would refer you to a letter sent to the Chamber by Minister Ploumen concerning an appreciation of Mr Capaldo's study. There's a slightly different analysis in that than some of you are making here. In any case, it is the government's analysis that it can be an important job engine, even if there is a discussion as to what exactly the size of it is. What are the Americans and Europeans in it? There is no willingness on either side of the ocean to compromise on human, animal, plant and environmental health. None of the Parties wishes to reduce safety requirements. In Europe, we find some American safety requirements exaggerated. The same goes for the other way around. Business on both sides says: you are going to cost us unnecessarily. The TTIP negotiations are therefore limited to areas where safety requirements are already comparable. The differences are therefore not in the safety levels, but in the details. Let me give you an example of test procedures and the exact content of products or specifications. It's important to say that. Let me give you an example. American cars have different safety belts, lights, locks and electric windows than European cars, but both Americans and Europeans drive safe cars. It is often about technical differences. When we talk about standards, the discussion is about these kinds of things, which are difficult to compare. A number of elements are important to all of you, I think, including the social model. As far as we are concerned, nothing will change the social model in the European Union. By the European Union, every free trade agreement includes a so-called labour clause. This clause states that employment and social security regulations remain valid regardless of what is included in the agreement. The European Union thus has the space to maintain its social model. In addition, the European Union must fulfil its obligations under the International Labour Organization. TTIP doesn't do anything about that either. Each bilateral trade agreement of the European Union contains a chapter on trade and sustainable development. The aim of that chapter is to ensure that increased trade, which is so important, does not harm environmental or labour rights. The commitment is inter alia that the parties reaffirm and cooperate in this area the obligations and principles of the International Labour Organization in the fight against forced labour and child labour. The European Union considers the fundamental ILO labour rights enshrined in the ILO's core conventions as an essential element of this chapter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u138	Isn't it true that the United States didn't sign all these conventions? Surely only two out of eight have been signed by the United States? If that is the standard, then that should mean that the United States should also sign the other six, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u139	With TTIP, too, EU Member States still have to meet the obligations of ILO conventions. That's gotta be the lead. They have committed themselves to that. The obligations arising from the conventions are separate from a free trade agreement with the United States. In addition, the European Union includes in each free trade agreement a so-called labour clause, which states that employment and social security rules remain valid regardless of what is included in the agreement. This point is also being discussed between Minister Ploumen and the trade union movement, in order to ensure that the way Mrs Maij calls it is promoted that in the United States there is respect for all ILO conventions. But that is indeed a difference, you are right, Mrs Maij.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u140	Exactly, precisely because we say that we want to combat social dumping and unfair competition within the European Union. In this way, of course, you would organise unfair competition within the internal market of the US and Europe. If Europe does comply with all ILO conventions, and if the US does not, then there is inequality.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u141	That is part of the negotiations that are taking place. We will see if it is possible for the Americans to sign those treaties. If that is not the case, we will look at where the problem lies and see if it can be dealt with. It is important to ensure the policy freedom of national states in TTIP. Minister Ploumen has made a proposal with a number of fellow ministers to improve investment protection in free trade agreements. One of these proposals is to fully preserve public policy freedom. Investors can and should expect the rules to change. I know that this concerns Mrs Maij, and that is why I would like to mention those five points very quickly. Investors can and should not expect that the rules will not change. That makes sense in a modern economy with a modern government. Next is the guarantee that fundamental European values, high quality standards, social security and fundamental rights will not be affected. We were just talking about that. I also mention high demands regarding the quality and independence of arbitrators in a legitimate dispute resolution mechanism and a code of conduct for arbitrators. A new dispute resolution mechanism with a permanent secretariat is hereby appointed. This is at least one of the possibilities in this proposal. This could be done by an international investment court, which has to settle disputes between investors and states. I am now very clear, because the issue of national sovereignty is at stake. Arbitration must not cross national jurisdiction. Investors cannot therefore shop for forums by going to national courts first and then to an arbitration tribunal or vice versa. The European Union also presents a number of proposals for improvement, such as the proposal for improved selections of arbitrators. Anyway, I may be going into the details a little too much right now, but this is the essence of the type of negotiation we are working on. I think this is in line with what the Chamber and the Members of the European Parliament are asking us to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u142	I have a question for the cabinet. How real is it that this policy freedom is also effective policy freedom? I hear the Minister saying that investors can count on the rules not to change. In previous discussions with the Foreign Trade Minister, the Chamber was always told that it would be nice for the Americans to raise their standards and adapt them to ours. I have also heard Mr Pechtold say this. This is the argument of the race to the top. What examples does the US Administration have of its willingness to change environmental, social and animal welfare standards because Europe is keen to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u143	I want to start by taking away a misunderstanding. It may be that I did not express myself clearly or that Mrs Ouwehand did not understand me correctly. I have just said that investors cannot and should not expect the rules to change. This is part of Mrs Ploumen's proposal. The Regulatory Cooperation Body is the body that is now working to see exactly how it can be realised that there are better standards on these points than there is a reduction in them. In some areas, the US has stricter rules than we do. This also has to do with a number of environmental aspects. In states of the United States, this is also regulated in various ways. That, too, complicates the negotiations. Let me give you an example: Mrs Ouwehand's party has also been discussed in recent weeks. In relation to sanitary and phytosanitary measures, there really is nothing about chlorine chickens and hormone meat. We do not want to negotiate this at all. The core for us is precisely the protection of our standards. We are in the middle of negotiations and there are no guarantees during negotiations. We are committed to what we have just said. We come up with a result. This will also be discussed in all kinds of democratic bodies, and I think that is right. The Chamber will have to weigh that further when there is a real outcome. However, it is quite clear that the European governments are all, but certainly also the Dutch Government, responsible for the issues I have just raised. That also applies to animal welfare. The Netherlands has even proposed strengthening that negotiating mandate. That is why these debates also make sense. We want there to be a level playing field when it comes to animal welfare standards for European and American producers. To achieve this, we want to establish a cooperation mechanism aimed at what we call 'equivalence'. Then I'm gonna go back into technique. I would like to point out that the point here is not so much that the government does not want to protect standards, but that they are extremely complicated negotiations. That's why I'm saying quality goes for speed. In the United States, for example, nothing is being organized at federal level in terms of animal welfare. This means that you have to work in a very different way to ensure that those standards and recommendations function in a way that protects the interests of animal welfare, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u144	Thank you for the long answer, in which no answer was given to my question. Let us not talk about the chlorine chicken and hormone meat and stay away from the so-called caricatures, although I can say something about that. My question concerns freedom of policy. The cabinet says it stays there, that that's his commitment. Minister Ploumen even says that it will be a race to the top, that those standards will be raised. My question is how real that is. Are there any examples yet to be mentioned? What experience does the cabinet base itself on? Let me give the Minister one example. For years now, the Netherlands has wanted to limit the tow with animals in Europe to eight hours. It's allowed 24 hours now. How easy is that? I don't. The Netherlands, as a Member State in the European internal market with a number of other countries, has wanted this for years. We are working very hard to congratulate the cabinet on this and it is not happening. How real is it to raise the standards we want to raise here with the Americans together? In that case, this effective freedom of policy will be limited to: yes, but the internal market, in America, they will not do so and we will not be able to raise standards here in the Netherlands or only in Europe, because that will affect our farmers. That game is going to be played at the level of Washington, isn't it? That effective policy freedom is zero, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u145	I do not know if I can really follow Mrs Ouwehand in this. We have, of course, an internal market here. Moreover, a single market requires regulation, as Mrs Ouwehand rightly says. We make these regulations together. We have said that sovereignty in these areas is partly European in nature. This also means that due to the commitment of the Netherlands it is probably not only happening here in the Netherlands, but that you can also raise the standards in Europe. That's what happened. The examples of this are well known. We are now going to look at the European. I have already said a number of times that in our negotiations we do not want to see the protection of what we have in terms of standards and values. Then Mrs Ouwehand can say that I am going to play a game with the United States. I would like to challenge her to assess the outcome later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u146	I'd like to keep going. The chlorine chicken is called a caricature. I also believe that this will not be included in the agreement. Let's grab something home-garden-and-kitchen: eggs. In Europe, laying battery eggs are prohibited. Imagine giving us that freedom of policy. This means that we in Europe can still have the standard that those battery eggs are banned, but in the US they also have their policy freedom. This means that much cheaper eggs can be used here. In the market, then, it is generally the effect that a price spiral comes down. How do you prevent that and how do you maintain your own standards?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u147	By ensuring that we meet high standards together. That is exactly what Mrs Ploumen said. That is what we shall be negotiating on. We shall then present the result to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u148	So high standards are right. However, this has the effect of restricting the freedom of policy. After all, you're gonna have to make agreements with each other. This means that it is no longer as easy as the Dutch Parliament or as the European Parliament to interfere with these agreements. So it can't be both. You cannot and cannot have policy freedom and very high standards to ensure that you do not get dumping on the market. How do we solve that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u149	That is the familiar problem that has a role to play in all international cooperation. This concerns the triangle of national sovereignty, democracy and globalisation. For those who follow it a bit, it's about the famous Rodrik Triangle. Those three cases are always at odds with each other. What exactly are we doing here? We are ensuring that this is done in a way where sovereignty remains as high as possible and at the same time that protection remains as high as possible. Parliament can then judge that. I have made it very clear today where the Netherlands, where Europe is setting the bar and also what we will not do if that protection is reduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u150	What trade agreement has been concluded over the last 20 years or 30 years, has that optimum of the Rodrik Triangle really been found?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u151	Well, of course, we can just stop the trade. Then you won't find an optimum and in the Netherlands you'll be autarkically left behind, at a time when globalisation...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u152	Minister, the question wasn't whether we should wait for that, but whether or not that has already been found.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u153	Mr President, thank you for your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u154	No, I repeat Mr Klaver's question and I would ask you to answer that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u155	Yes, there are such international trade agreements. As an example, let me mention all the trade agreements that we have concluded with a number of African countries. I negotiated it myself. It is true that the national sovereignty of countries to establish a certain position in international trade according to comparative advantages is maintained for a certain period of time, so that these countries can operate more effectively in international trade from there. So there are examples.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u156	The minister is actually the seventh PvdA spokesperson to speak about TTIP today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u157	Yeah, I've been asked about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u158	Of course. To be a little wise, I would like to ask the Minister whether he agrees with the PvdA that TTIP should be rejected, or with the PvdA that TTIP is a good treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u159	I am speaking on behalf of the cabinet and I have listened to the spokesman of the Labour Party. I have not heard at all that the treaty is being rejected by the PvdA. The spokesperson of the PvdA said here: I want a number of standards to be met. I'm responding on behalf of the government. I do not quite understand what Mr Sjoerdsma wants to hear from me now. Should I make a choice on behalf of the government between all kinds of wings within the Labour Party that do not exist? No, I'm really not gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u160	I am asking for this, of course, because it is a very large treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u161	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u162	Potentially, this treaty has very great benefits for the European Union. But there are also very serious concerns, for example about ISDS and our national standards. My question was, therefore, perhaps indirectly, whether the Minister does not find it worrying that an important government party such as the PvdA should be so flexible in dealing with its position in the afternoon in the NRC against this treaty and claim the opposite in the evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u163	The government assumes what the spokesmen here in the Chamber say. She's not basing herself on newspaper reports. I come to a number of questions that have been asked about the consequences of TTIP for the Court and for the Council of State. Is the court being consulted? Let me first say that the Court of Justice in Luxembourg has exclusive competence to rule on disputes between Member States within the scope of Union law. Investment protection in trade agreements is about investors starting proceedings against a state. That's the well-known I of ISDS, which stands for Investor-State Dispute Settlement. Such mechanisms may exist alongside the procedures before the European Court, I say to Mr De Jong. Moreover, there are other forms of dispute settlement, which exist alongside those of the European Court of Justice. For example, the WTO has a dispute settlement system between the parties, which is, moreover, being widely used at the moment. The Court is not consulted on TTIP by default, nor on other treaties concluded by the Union with third parties. There has also been talk of the Council of State. By default, advice is requested from the Council of State, as part of the assent procedure and the ratification of an agreement. That won't be any different for TTIP. For my conclusion, I have two elements. The first is that I support the wishes of the Chamber on standards. The House says: first of all, look carefully that these standards do not reduce. The House wants us to stand up for this in international consultations and not let those standards go down. Secondly, there must be a proper system for dispute settlement. Thirdly, the Chamber wants us to be as transparent as possible about the negotiations themselves. We have done so, including Commissioner Malström. We've consulted widely, and we will continue to do so. Minister Ploumen has talked not only to business and civil society, but also to trade unions and scientists from different disciplines about TTIP. That's what she's going through with. During the cabinet period, we will continue to do so during the negotiations. As promised by the Prime Minister, Minister Ploumen will inform the Chamber with a letter on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u164	I have two questions on the request for advice to the Council of State. Does this also relate to the relationship between TTIP, dispute resolution and whether this undermines independent justice and democratic decision-making? That is a substantive question. My other question is: do we get that opinion from the Council of State before the treaty is discussed in the Chamber and whether or not the Chamber approves it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u165	The standard opinion is requested as part of the assent procedure, and there can be no mistake about that. It is, of course, up to the Council of State, depending on the material it receives, to then make a substantive assessment, at least, of what the Council of State deserves.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u166	That's what the Chamber gets before it comes to judgment. That was the question, wasn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u167	But my specific question was substantive: does the Council of State consider the relationship between TTIP and the democratic rule of law, i.e. independent justice and democratic decision-making?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u168	That's what the Council of State is about. It looks by default at the assent procedure for this type of agreement. The Council can then advise on this as widely as it sees fit.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u169	In response to all the objections raised here to ISDS, the Minister says that this dispute resolution cannot, I say it in my own words, cross the courts or the national court. But if a system is created that is separate from it, it can still happen. Then the best guarantee to prevent that collision between both systems is to ensure that ISDS does not continue in this form?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u170	That is not the case. You can imagine that happens in different areas and our investors also have an interest in submitting disputes for arbitration. The question is how that happens and on what basis. I think that's the essence. Investment protection is also essential. There's nothing against that either. However, we do not want these decisions to go through national legal procedures through that arbitration mechanism. So that's what we're gonna build in.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u171	Let me get this straight. The fact that they cross national legal procedures can only happen if there are. If there is no national legal procedure in a dispute because this arbitration system has to be applied, since it is the system, then it does not interfere, but it may be that you have a bad outcome, at least for Dutch stakeholders.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u172	For other reasons, too, a case may arise through national law. The only thing you want to know, I understand that very well is that it does not take the form of a supreme court. That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u173	I'd like to know how you prevent it from interfering with the rule of law, with the course of justice in the country. Such an arbitration tribunal is precisely aimed at reaching a verdict behind closed doors. There is no appeal against that. The ruling "it's almost mediation "is binding. This means that no appeal can be made to a court of law. There is no democratic control of it either, in the sense that the ruling or the file is public to journalists, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u174	You are now assuming a lot of assumptions that really have to prove themselves. If they proved themselves, we'd be against such a system. This is being negotiated, looked at and then reported to the Chamber. Investor protection is about how states want to treat foreign investors. These are basic rules which also apply under our national law, I also say to the SP Group, such as non-discrimination, conditions of expropriation and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u175	I am also a little disappointed by the Minister for Foreign Affairs that he says to me that I am based on all sorts of assumptions and that I do not know what it looks like. The Netherlands has around 120 investment treaties.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u176	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u177	The Minister knows that very well. It also includes ISDS clauses. From these clauses and treaties, I draw up what the dispute resolution looks like. Then it is not strange to assume or to think, especially when you read in the Anglo-Saxon press that America is using, that there will be a non-public tribunal in which three lawyers try to get out with each other. How are you going to prevent such a system, which is already in treaties, from obstructing justice in the country? How are you gonna make that happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u178	By addressing a number of issues that the Netherlands has proposed regarding the functioning of such an ISDS. I have mentioned a number of elements of this. Investors can and should not expect that the rules will not change. There is a guarantee in the type of system that fundamental European values will not be affected. High demands are placed on the quality and independence of arbitrators for the purpose of a legitimate dispute resolution mechanism, and on a code of conduct for arbitrators. Here we stand for a new mechanism. They are different from the mechanisms put forward by Mr Klaver so far. Different forms can be sought for this. They're looking into that right now. I cannot anticipate that, because they are only very initial ideas. The possibility of appeal should also be created. I agree. That point brings the Netherlands in. Nor do we want arbitration to cross national courts. That is a large number of elements of improvement that the Netherlands is proposing to ensure that it is a good arbitration. This brings me to the end of the answer to the questions on TTIP. We have listened carefully to the wishes about this. There's a motion supported. We're gonna go a lot further on that. I assume that the House will then discuss this with Mrs Ploumen. I come to a number of points relating to the functioning of the European Union. First of all, the Kompetenzkatalog. That is indeed an important discussion. In the State of the Union, we have dealt with the objections to this. It is an old idea of Joschka Fischer from the beginning of this century, which was also included in the Treaty of Lisbon. He wondered what the finality of Europe was. It clearly defines the competences of the European Union. An amendment to that classification would require a treaty change. It is now known that the cabinet is not in favour of this. A very precise Kompetenzkatalog will, in our opinion, harden the European Union and remove the opportunities to respond to new current events, such as the enormous migration problems and climate-related elements. This would perhaps improve the definition of competences, but the European Union's ability to respond to citizens' wishes would be surrendered. You could also be less anticipating. That is why it is good to use it now, and I shall come back to this once again on a concrete agenda related to good governance, both at national and at European level, with priorities in that strategic agenda. We need to hold on to those priorities now. That is precisely why I believe that there is also an important task for the Chamber to use existing instruments as far as possible, such as the yellow card procedure. The Chamber shall make use of it. By seeking cooperation with other national parliaments, this instrument will be strengthened. From the government's point of view, that is more sensible than the Kompetenzkatalog. I come to speak about something that has to do with the SGP Group's question on the sneak-in transfer of powers. I begin with the observation that extensive interpretation by the Court of Justice asked the SGP specifically about the position of the EU Court of Justice is not the same as sneaking transfer of powers. We have already shared this in debates before. In the EU Treaties, the EU Court is entrusted with the task of settling disputes concerning the interpretation and application of EU law. In the constitutional structure of the European Union, the judiciary is separated from the legislative power. The legislator cannot define all the situations exhaustively. Therefore, a judge must interpret the law when confronted with a case. There has been a lot of discussion about this recently. For example, when it comes to another Court, the ECHR, the margin of appreciation applies, as is so beautiful. As stated by the Council of State, the EU Court of Justice uses regular methods of interpreting European law in its rulings. Like the Dutch judge, the EU Court interprets the law lyrically, but also in teleological and legal historic ways, for example. That is not the case with the transfer of powers through the Court of Justice. That is why I would add that, as the Council of State pointed out, the Treaty legislator has the possibility to limit the scope of unwanted rulings by the EU Court by adopting later regulations. I come to the European Citizens' Initiative. I think this is important. The Cabinet shares the view that the European Citizenship Initiative can be improved. I agree with that when we talk about increasing democratic legitimacy and transparency. There are now too many technical and bureaucratic obstacles, including in the various Member States. Serious European citizenship initiatives should really be placed on the agenda. This concerns the attitude towards the initiators. This is now better on the Commission's retina. I also understand that the European Parliament is taking that up. As far as we are concerned, that is right. Dutch supports this. The increase in transparency is also part of the agenda. I can give you many examples, but I will not do so because of time. We are committed to increasing transparency, for example by clarifying and clarifying the position of the various institutions in the legislative process, or by joining the Council in the transparency register on lobbying activities. The handling of delegated acts may also be more transparent, such as by establishing a public register for expert groups. I can mention a number of other examples. I come to the subject of simplification or reinforcement. The agenda should not always be just about more legislation. We are not just going to look at how much legislation has been put in place during our term of office. There are always people who want legislation. We have institutions, governments, MEPs: everyone always wants to take care of something. The point is that we come to the main issues, such as simplifying the rules. There has been a discussion on how to do that in order to achieve a real reduction. The Vice-President of the European Commission is working on this. We are committed to this. We support that. In our view, it has nothing to do with the deregulation operation, but with the fact that Europe must concentrate on key issues. I have been asked a question about the circular economy. That point has been withdrawn, but you know that this has been done in order to achieve a more ambitious regulatory package. I have already said a number of things about the use of better regulation. We are actively committed to this. The Cabinet welcomes the ambitious conclusions of the Competitiveness Council. We also welcome the Commission's commitment. You can draw up a list of pending proposals to delete in view of the enormous regulatory burden that exists in the Commission's Work Programme. I can give you many examples of this, but they are known. I think it's essential. These are sometimes proposals that have been there for years, where no progress has been made and which need to be discussed over and over again. The efficiency of spending is also really important to me. The PVV Group and others have spoken about this and rightly so. Indeed, it is very important that the EU money achieves the desired result. That is also what I put forward on Monday in the good governance agenda. The Netherlands is strongly in favour of greater control of the efficiency of spending. More emphasis is already being placed on the effectiveness of EU grants for the current period 2014-2020. However, it must not be at the expense of checking the legality of expenditure. That's the first step, then we go to efficiency. I have great confidence in the European Commissioner, Georgieva, of the EU budget. It expressed its intentions on 5 November. It is actually five things that the Netherlands wants to do with it: to strengthen the Commission's own enforcement, to pursue simplification of regulation, to embrace the national declaration as a voluntary accountability tool, to apply net corrections and to work towards a better understanding of the effectiveness of EU funds. We are in favour of these national declarations, but there is insufficient support for them. We will continue to do so in the agenda. Even though there is no mandatory national declaration, the Netherlands is satisfied that for the new period there is talk about what is called a management declaration. I believe that more Member States should issue a national declaration. In any case, we continue to work for good accountability by the Member States. Indeed, it is very important that EU money always achieves the desired result. The new regulation for the funds which spend a great deal of money, such as the Structural Funds and the Agricultural Fund, has been strengthened. The VVD Group asked for that. There's a performance reserve. 6% of the budget can only be spent by the end of 2018 if the Member States have achieved the pre-arranged performance. New is also the obligation to evaluate efficiency and effectiveness and make the results available to a wide audience. I think that is very important, as I said last Monday. You can intervene if you have to. We already have a sanction mechanism for the proper use of funds. The Commission communication should then be actively used. Dialogue in the Council must be organised as effectively as possible so that there is a real culture to address each other. This applies not only to the funds, but also, for example, to human rights, which we have just mentioned. We work that out with the Commission when it comes to cases of infringement of EU law. The payment of funds has already been suspended in the case of Hungary. So it can be done where necessary. When evaluating the Council conclusions, we will consider what further measures are needed. I support the arguments of the groups of the VVD and the SP on this issue. We strongly support incentives for performance. The cabinet also advocates the understanding and quantification of the effects of all these control measures and regulatory initiatives within the European Union in an annual Commission scoreboard. This will make it clear which simplifications have been achieved and what citizens and entrepreneurs notice of them. A further question was asked about the proposed revision of the decision-making procedures for market authorisation for genetically modified organisms. My colleague Mr Mansveld has already stated that there is no need to review the decision-making procedure for market authorisation. The policy orientations of the government with regard to GMOs are laid down in the policy letter of 4 April. There is a "yes, if" policy for GMOs in plants and a "no, unless" policy for GMOs in animals. The Commission, through President Juncker, announced that it would come forward with a proposal to amend the decision-making procedure within six months of its entry into force. We have not yet seen that proposal. If that is the case, a sheet will of course be sent to the Chamber as soon as possible so that we can discuss it. Finally, I would like to say that I am pleased that the European Union has apparently reached agreement on the main lines of a final agreement with Iran this evening, after tough negotiations, and I would just like to say this in the context of external policy. I thought it would be a good idea to share that. Of course, we will have to assess whether it is an agreement that will lead Iran in the long term to a reliable withdrawal of nuclear weapons, once the technical details have been worked out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u179	This brought an end to the government's first-term response. We can proceed immediately with the second term. Then the Members of the European Parliament have two minutes' speaking time. The members of the Chamber shall have one third of the speaking time they had in the first term. Members who had four minutes' speaking time will then have two minutes' speaking time. Motions can only be submitted by the members of the Lower House. Also the signing and supporting of the motions can only be done by the members of the House of Representatives. Of course, everyone may raise their hands, but the hands of the non-Second Members of Parliament are not counted. If only one member of a political group speaks, the group may add up its speaking time. In this second term, I shall give the floor to Mr Van 't Forest of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u180	Mr. Chairman. It was a long debate. This afternoon we had already spoken with each other. On behalf of the VVD Group, I would like to thank all Members of the European Parliament for their presence. I think it's really good that we can talk here, as we did this afternoon. I would like to thank the cabinet for the very comprehensive first-term response. I think one of the main points of today's debate was TTIP. It is good that there is a lot of talk about this. However, the VVD believes that this debate should not only be about what we all think about it in the Netherlands and Europe, but also about the position that Europe will soon have in the world. I remain convinced that this trade agreement with the United States is crucial for Europe to maintain a strong position in the world, and for other countries to take the spoils. However, in the first period, I have already said a few things about this. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that better regulation can play a key role in strengthening the internal market, competitiveness and supporting growth and entrepreneurship;]] [[Considering the importance of progress on the better regulatory agenda of Commissioner Timmermans;]] [[calls on the government, at European level, to make the objectives set out in the better regulation agenda comprehensible and measurable;]] [[calls on the Government to work at European level to ensure that impact assessments are carried out not only at the beginning but also at the end of the European legislative process,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has proposed making the provision of European funds more dependent on performance in more programmes;]] [[Whereas this proposal may lead to more efficient and effective use of European funds;]] [[calls on the Government to put forward a concrete proposal to make the provision of European funds in more programmes more dependent on performance,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member of the Wout. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34166-2]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member of the Wout. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34166-3]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u181	Mr. Chairman. I thank the government for the answers it has given. I see this as adequate and an important prospect for the Dutch Presidency. I would like to emphasise one more point. The Prime Minister was talking about it, too. It is wise that the Netherlands participates in the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank. That AllB is an initiative of China. Taiwan also likes to participate. I hope that can be promoted. The economic and conveyor belts between China and Taiwan are good, even excellent. This means that the Netherlands can independently strengthen its good relationship with Taiwan.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u182	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister for answering the many questions. I would also like to thank them for their reassurance that the Dutch leaders are really going to take an active part in the Councils of Ministers in Brussels. This has happened many times, but it will happen even more often in the direction of the European Presidency. I think that's really important. I hope that the government will be able to undertake what I have asked for, namely that the reports of the various Councils indicate who has been sitting on the seats. A lot has been said about TTIP. I understand the joke from the D66 side about the different spokesmen, but I think everything I said was pretty clear. When we had the debate on this, my colleague Jongerius was sitting in the back of the Chamber. He totally agreed with me. So I think we were crystal clear. To underline that clarity, I shall table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas regulatory harmonisation is an important part of TTIP and can lead to a deterioration of European standards;]] [[considers that TTIP should not be ratified if it means lowering our European standards on environmental standards, food safety, animal welfare and social standards;]] [[also considers that ISDS should include public dispute resolution, which is embedded in our current legal system,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Maij, Mr Jan Vos, Mr Segers, Mr Klaver and Mr Ouwehand.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34166-4]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u183	I have a question about it, because the PvdA position cannot be clear enough for me. What part of this motion has not already been promised by the cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u184	I think it's very clear. That is why I am so pleased that four parties have signed the motion. I understand that this is too exciting for you and that it is just a step too far. I think it is very important that we state that we are drawing a line towards the government. I hope that the government will undertake to take action on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u185	I do not think Mrs Maij can say that it is a step too far for me, because I have only just heard and seen the motion for a resolution for the first time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u186	I submitted the motion to your colleague, who felt that she was a step too far.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u187	Then I would like to ask what points of the motion that Mrs Maij has just read have not been promised to the cabinet. In other words, doesn't Mrs Maij just ask the cabinet to do what it already does?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u188	No, Mrs Maij asks the cabinet on behalf of the Labour Party and on behalf of a number of other colleagues in the Chamber to strike a line. We're not asking the Cabinet to negotiate and do a little of this and a little of that, but we're asking the Cabinet to strike a line.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u189	A line is a line. Then Mrs Maij must ask for a clear line. What part hasn't already been promised by the Cabinet? I just want to make it clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u190	You have asked this question before.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u191	Yes. Thank you. That is why I am now tabling a motion on the next point. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the new European Commission is systematically committed to promoting fundamental democratic values and human rights in the European Union;]] [[noting that the European Council is still lagging behind and does not go beyond an annual dialogue on the rule of law without consequences;]] [[considers that the promotion of shared fundamental values, principles and freedoms in all the Member States of the European Union should be a priority and take a more concrete form;]] [[calls on the Government to work actively in the European Council to systematically examine and assess the implementation of these European values in the Member States, coupled with a possibility of sanctions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Maij and Mr Pechtold. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34166-5]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u192	Does this motion of the Labour Party also provide for an annual EU check on the rule of law? We have had a long debate on TTIP and on whether this treaty complies with the rule of law. So that has apparently become a relevant question. That is what the CDA Group shares. Shouldn't the motion include an annual or biennial check on the EU institutions or the Council of Europe or any other institution?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u193	I think that's a good idea. This motion deals specifically with the rule of law within the Member States themselves. I believe that Mr Omtzigt also raised this point in the hearing we had. For example, a country like Hungary sometimes takes a walk with it. We think it is very important that this is monitored and that the Member States discuss it with each other. I do not exclude that Mr Omtzigt's idea is also a good idea, but this motion deals specifically with the Member States and their own rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u194	I am asking this question because the Council of Europe is doing exactly this work in the monitoring committee. Hungary is indeed included in the list of countries under scrutiny. I think you're right to do that. I therefore share Mrs Maij's view. Does it want to understand this motion in such a way that the government should also use the reverse mechanism? That is important to us, because otherwise there will be some kind of subjugation: the Union will check the state of law for the countries, but no one will check the Union. Then you also have an interesting horizontal relationship between the Union and the countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u195	The rule of law must be checked by the Member States themselves and not by the Union as an invisible entity. I think it is very important that the Member States speak to each other in the European Council about this state of law. So the check is mutual.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u196	I don't know if you've heard it, but I've been flapping my ears a little bit; excuse me. This motion states that there must be some sort of European thought police within the European Council to check whether the Member States all comply with the rule of law. If this is not the case, tough action must be taken and sanctions must be imposed. It cannot be true that we want to organise this in a European context. That would be a very sad end to this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u197	You may not have heard it, but now I'm blowing my ears off. It is extremely important that countries participating in the European Union, which are Member States of the European Union, meet the Copenhagen criteria. These are criteria for the rule of law, economic governance and democratic governance. The Member States should not stick to this a little bit, or only do so when they join the European Union, no, they must do so continuously. We see that there are times when that is not going well. We think it is extremely important that we address each other, because we are a common European Union with common values. We believe that Member States must meet these criteria before they become members, but that does not mean that that responsibility will then be removed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u198	In short, a monitoring body will be set up to ensure that all Member States meet the requirements at all times. We leave the process of consulting each other and are discussing these issues in order to achieve uniformity, and we are setting a sanction option. I really don't believe it!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u199	I think it is very good that we enter into this conversation with each other, that we monitor it and take steps in it. It's not immediately boom, done. The penalty must be stepped in, up the stairs, so to speak, bet. However, it is extremely important that we continue to engage in this dialogue and that we recognise that we can address each other as Member States if things go wrong. We should not think: the only possibility is the explosive possibility, so we do not do it. Finally, I shall table my third motion on the Dutch Presidency. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas increasingly powerful multinationals make use of differences between European Member States and gaps in European legislation;]] [[whereas this creates competition between Member States and an undesirable race to the bottom;]] [[noting that this leads to exploitation of workers, undermining of basic social rights and the emergence of undesirable tax avoidance structures;]] [[calls on the Government to prevent this by making the Dutch Presidency of the EU in 2016 a spearhead of the renewed Posting of Workers Directive and the fight against tax avoidance,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Maij, Mr Klaver and Mr Van Bommel. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34166-6]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u200	Mr. Chairman. I would like to join with Mr Van 't Wout in saying that it is good to hold this meeting of Dutch parliamentarians and Dutch MEPs. I also think that this afternoon's round table should be repeated. It's a good form to exchange thoughts. Together with my colleagues in the European Parliament, including Bas Eickhout, I have sometimes been surprised that there was little discussion about TTIP in the Netherlands. I can see that we have nothing to complain about today. That is a good thing. It is clear that the PvdA Group, like the other Social Democrats in the European Parliament, has great concerns about TTIP and that these concerns are not easy to overcome. As things stand, we cannot agree to TTIP. That is also because an internal market with the United States is continuing along the same path. It's getting hot. When parties say that they have a high priority for democracy and support, they must also realise that TTIP is on the old road and that this does not contribute to the acceptance and sense of democracy in Europe. I am also glad that I have heard the Foreign Minister say that he is putting quality above speed. In any case, that seems to me to be a sensible approach. I have one more question. I would like to remind the Prime Minister of Jean-Claude Juncker's example. He was mugged by revelations about tax avoidance. If the Netherlands is not careful, it can happen to the Netherlands, and also to the Prime Minister. I would very much like to hear from the Prime Minister that the Netherlands really wants to take the lead in tackling tax avoidance. It's the moment now. Does the Prime Minister therefore agree with the principle of what even Jean-Claude Juncker is doing that income tax should be paid where that profit is obtained? That's what I like to hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u201	I see Mr Sjoerdsma standing by the interrupting microphone. I hardly dare to say it anymore, but Members of the European Parliament must not be interrupted.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u202	Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister said that the British wish to delete the phrase "an ever closer union" was symbolism. That does not seem to me to be the case. The Netherlands itself, through Minister Timmermans, has also argued that the time of an ever closer union was over. It wasn't symbolism back then, and it still isn't. So we will still have to monitor that process. So it should actually be removed from treaty texts, even if this means that we have to go into that difficult process. There is no need for a European government. Yes, the Dutch Government can say that, but it must be a matter of concern if the President of the European Commission, Juncker, continues to work towards this in different ways. On this point, we will monitor and keep up with both the European Commission and the Dutch Government. Much attention has been paid to TTIP. This will probably continue to be the case in the coming months with the confusing position of the Labour Party, or the views of the Labour Party. In order to put an end to that ambiguity, I shall table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the TTIP Convention refers to an arbitration tribunal (Investor-State Dispute Settlement), which allows US companies outside the national courts to sue governments;]] [[calls on the Government not to agree to a system of ISDS that allows US governments outside national courts to sue governments,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Bommel and Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34166-7]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u203	What's the line? Can't the U.S. government sue anymore?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u204	No, I'd like to read the text again. The motion states: "Asks the government not to agree to an ISDS system that allows US governments outside the national courts to sue governments."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u205	Companies, I presume? Otherwise, there's something really weird in the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u206	You're absolutely right. Yeah, that's gonna have to be changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u207	Come on, we're gonna change it. That has already been said.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u208	I have a second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas TTIP refers to a so-called regulatory cooperation body, a special council that can indicate prior to the democratic process whether new laws and measures are (un) desirable;]] [[believes that this will put democracy on the sidelines;]] [[calls on the government not to agree to a so-called regulatory cooperation body in TTIP,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Bommel and Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34166-8]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u209	Finally, I have a motion on the Court of Justice. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Court of Justice considers itself exclusively competent for the interpretation of European law;]] [[Whereas at present it is not clear what the consequences of an arbitration tribunal (Investor-State Dispute Settlement) and regulatory cooperation are for the jurisdiction of the Court of Justice;]] [[calls on the Government to take the initiative to consult the Court of Justice in good time on the relationship between international trade agreements such as the Convention with Canada (CETA) and the US (TTIP) to the European legal order,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Bommel and Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34166-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u210	Mr. Chairman. It will be no surprise that TTIP is again my subject for these two minutes. I am grateful to the Minister for having answered my questions about the Court of Justice. Let me give you an example. Suppose we have a perfect arbritagehof that is completely public and that meets all the requirements. Let's say there's an issue about energy. I'm just saying what a company says to a state: what you do in the field of energy, what you do in the field of energy, what you do in the field of energy, what you do in the field of energy, what you do in the field of energy, what you do in the field of energy, what I do in the field of energy, what I do in the field of energy, what I do in the field of energy, what I do in the field of energy, what I do in the field of energy, what I do in the field of energy, what I do in the field of energy. A Member State will say: I do, but with that I will carry out what we have agreed in the framework of the Energy Union in Europe. Then these arbitrators say: no, you can interpret that quite differently, you don't have to be so strict. Those arbitrators will then have a right to speak about something that has been agreed in Europe. The problem you're dealing with is that these things can sand. That is why the Van Bommel/Jasper van Dijk motion is in part No. 9 submitted. The following is a bit about the chlorine chicken discussion. I constantly hear that this is not the subject of the negotiations. But if we use this treaty to establish the mechanism that we can regulate all sectors, all parts that we do not regulate equally, in the future, then there remains a great question for me. Okay, civil servants are gonna negotiate it with companies. Something's coming up. Can I then table amendments in the European Parliament and say that it has to be a little bit different? Or can I just say yes or no in the future? In both cases there are problems. If I can change it, it has to go back. The same can happen in Congress. And then civil servants go back to negotiating with companies. But if I cannot table amendments, we will still be faced with a restriction on democratic power. There is another question that I have not received an answer to: how does TTIP relate, for example, to the transpacific partnership of the Americans? That might also get one of those regulatory bodies and rules are also agreed on. If it's about the same rule, how are these bodies going to relate to each other? Actually, I don't have any clarity about that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u211	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the answers. I'll start with the MH17. I hope that the question will be put to Russia. In the motion in part No. 6 (33873) is also asked for this. That motion was adopted on 11 March. We want to know if Russia shares the view that amnesty is not in force for the perpetrators of the attack on the MH17. I may have missed something, but I haven't heard a few answers. I ask these questions again, in the hope that the answers will be given in the second term. When will we get the budget that will be sent to Europe before 1 May? I prefer to say "within a week" so that we can talk about this and ask questions. We asked for the letter sent by the Dutch Government to the European Commission, in which it asked not to disclose the documents that De Telegraaf wants to have publicly. I think that letter is covered by the WOB. So we could get rid of them. He'll be out in the open. The first question is: can the cabinet send that letter now? It's the fourth time we've asked this. Can we at least get an answer to that? Question two is: is it just possible to get it under the WOB? If so, it should also be sent to the Chamber, in accordance with the government's policy. So many motions have been tabled about TTIP that I don't. However, I can assure you that we in the Council of Europe are conducting an investigation, including into the rule of law. I'll get involved. I shall table two motions for resolutions and then Mr Lenaers will say a number of things about the Detachment Directive and other matters. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Swedish Minister for Foreign Affairs has rightly appointed the total lack of women's rights in Saudi Arabia;]] [[noting that Saudi Arabia and other Middle East countries took immediate action against Sweden;]] [[Considers that dictatorial regimes with a lack of human rights, and in particular women's rights, are far from the values and universal human rights shared in Europe;]] [[considers that the EU Member States should support each other in the human rights policy they share together;]] [[calls on the Government, together with other EU countries, to show solidarity with Sweden;]] [[calls on the Government to support EU countries, in new similar cases, which rightly raise serious human rights violations elsewhere,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Omtzigt and Mr Segers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34166-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u212	In the context of the government's transparency initiative, which I warmly welcome, I shall table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the EU institutions are not sufficiently transparent;]] [[Calls on the Government to make a proposal to give parliamentarians better access to documents that are not currently public, including improved protection of whistleblowers in line with Council of Europe standards, improved Eurowob with as few exceptions as possible and improved current implementation and clear decision lists of European Councils, including relations and voting;]] [[calls on the Government to submit this proposal to the Chamber in good time in order to introduce it during the Dutch EU Presidency,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34166-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u213	Mr Omtzigt said that so many motions have already been tabled on TTIP that he did not have to do so himself. The parties are adjusting their positions, so I think the CDA is doing the same. A motion has been held to make animal welfare an absolute condition for the trade agreement. This is not from the animal welfare lobby, but rather from the point of view of protecting European farmers from the lower US standards. I wonder whether the CDA too is ready to acknowledge that this is a major danger and that we should make this a condition for the conclusion of such a trade agreement at all. So the question is: will the CDA support this motion if I put this Tuesday to the vote?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u214	I'm now supposed to know all the motions by heart. I'll study the motion carefully this weekend. I'm beginning to learn the government's avoidances.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u215	Mr. Chairman. Mr Omtzigt was kind enough to point out to me an imperfection in the motion on item No. 7, but in correcting that, we have gone a little too far. Where there is talk of 'governments' for the second time, we have changed it to 'enterprises'. But it really has to be "governments." I have the modified version here. So you will now have a new version of the motion in part No. 7, in which that error has been corrected.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u216	That version is part of the debate. Thank you for this correction. I call Mr Lenaers of the CDA Group of the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u217	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Foreign Minister and the Prime Minister for the answers they have given. I thank the Prime Minister for his words on the position of citizens in the border region. However, I would like to say that I am still concerned. What is happening in the border regions is not only a matter of European interest. We have discussed a lot of major European issues here today, but certainly also national policies. Take the Dutch excise policy, or the different ways in which European directives are implemented in the Netherlands and in neighbouring countries Germany and Belgium, which creates inequality along European borders. When I look at the German toll plan, at the way in which Germany is putting its own windmills closer and closer to the Dutch borders without any involvement of Dutch citizens, I sometimes wonder whether that feeling of Europe, of restoring confidence and of a Europe of which all citizens must benefit is still alive at the level of cooperation with our neighbouring countries. The second point I would like to make concerns the revision of the Detaching Directive. Yes, we are also fully in favour of considering what needs to be changed, what is not going well now, and how we need to change those rules again. Commissioner Marianne Thyssen, in an interview with the Volkskrant at the beginning of March, also cracked a critical note with regard to the Netherlands when she said: there is still much to be said about the national enforcement of the Detachings Directive. So I say, yes, we have to go to that review, but if we don't combine that with adequate enforcement at national level, then any legislative reform is a sham. So I also say: please pay attention to enforcement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u218	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the rulers for their reply. I note that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has always managed to respond very comprehensively and completely. We appreciate that. As a member of this House of Representatives since June 2010, I have the privilege to read our traditional motion. Here we go. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the euro and the European Union have been in a state of permanent crisis since 2009;]] [[considers that there is no prospect for Dutch citizens of a favourable outcome of the EU project due to the permanent failure of the internal organisation and the death of the EU's political ambitions;]] [[calls on the Government, as soon as possible, to implement an exit path from the Netherlands, with the first part of which is the withdrawal of the Schengen Convention,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Beertema and Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34166-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u219	The Schengen Convention is important to us, because the external borders are not adequately guarded and there is a constant threat of the immigration of IS terrorists.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u220	Mr. Chairman. Thanks to the cabinet for the first-term response. Thank you also for the nice debate, although I still have a little change in my design, so that Members of the European Parliament can also speak a little more and also be questioned. I would have liked to have done that with my colleague, Mr Tang. In the first term, my group has highlighted a number of issues. What are the main points of our Presidency now? How do we safeguard fundamental rights in Europe? How do we keep our housekeeping books in order? And what about overseas? We talked about Koenders' new contract, of course we talked about chlorine chickens and we talked about the PvdA turn. We just saw it again. There were already two PvdA positions on TTIP in one day; first no and then yes. Just now it was two positions in one minute: Mrs Maij said she was in favour on conditions and Mr Tang said he was now against TTIP. As far as the position of the PvdA vis-à-vis TTIP is concerned, I am completely lost. The outcome of the debate...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u221	Mrs Maij feels a need to ask a question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u222	No, Mr. Chairman, I feel the need to make one more point: no, unless. I can't make it much more. If you do not want to hear it, then you really must do something about your ears, Mr Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u223	I also see Mr Tang nodding now, so they have found each other again in this injury period. That's good to see.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u224	I always find it hilarious when D66 fights her problems with the PvdA. Fine. However, if we are talking about unclear positions, I would like to ask D66 a question about the referendum. Mr Pechtold mentioned earlier today that he was in favour of a corrective referendum. But then there is still a constitutional change to be made. So that's pretty easy. If your name is Democrats 66 and you see that it is possible to hold a consultative referendum, should we not simply present a treaty such as TTIP, which has a major impact on the sovereignty of the Netherlands, to the citizens? Isn't that part of your party's basic principles, Mr. Sjoersdma?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u225	The answer is no.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u226	That is a clear answer, in any case. Some colleagues, perhaps I too, can really take an example of this. But why not? I don't understand. Your name is Democrats 66, one of your crown jewels is that the citizens should be placed at the centre and that they should have that say, and you write in your election programme that once a treaty is changed in Europe, the European Treaty, which must be submitted by referendum to the electorate, to the citizen. We see that TTIP creates a huge limitation of sovereignty and D66 says: well, it's not a good time for us, because we are introduced and imagine that it will be against, so we don't do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u227	The first part of Mr Klaver's summary was very correct, but I thought the second part was not so much. I think Mr Klaver knows as well as most other spokesmen in this Chamber that the Treaty will be submitted to the European Parliament for approval anyway. Perhaps he does not trust his colleague Mr Eickhout enough in that assessment. I think it's wise to do that. On the other hand, I do trust Mr Gerbrandy and Mrs Schaake. Moreover, if it becomes a mixed treaty, it will also come to this Parliament. Then you can also express your opinion yourself, Mr Klaver. And you represent the Dutch people. How beautiful is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u228	Proceed, Mr Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u229	I was talking about the outcome of the debate. In fact, my group lacks two concrete commitments. The first concerns the promised budget freeze. I also missed it in Minister Koenders' replies. My group would very much like to put that European budget in order. I want the cabinet to start talking about the better budget of the European Union for the period 2020-2027 in the run-up to 2016, and to organise a serious summit when we are at the ball. My colleague, Gerbrandy, is about to go into that in a moment. I'll file a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted the commitment of the Cabinet to organise a dialogue in the European Union in the run-up to the Dutch Presidency with regard to the European budgetary system;]] [[calls on the government, in the run-up to the Presidency, to engage in serious discussions with European partners on conceivable measures and reforms, and to hold a serious budget summit during the Presidency to come up with concrete proposals for improving the European budget,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Klaver, Mr Van Bommel and Mr Maij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34166-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u230	My second point concerns fundamental rights. We see that countries that want to join the European Union have to jump through all kinds of hoops. Once you are in it, however, you can put aside the rule of law à la Orbán. D66 would like to change that. That is why my group has also wholeheartedly endorsed Mrs Maij's last motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u231	I now give the floor to Mr Gerbrandy, who replaces Mrs In 't Veld. Mr Gerbrandy is a member of the D66 Group of the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u232	Mr. Chairman. A special word of thanks to you for the following. The Prime Minister has already spoken with some cynicism about the miraculous multiplication at the Juncker Fund. In any case, you have now made it possible for us to have applied a miraculous transformation within our own D66 teachings. As Mr Sjoerdsma said, I would like to talk briefly about the European budget. The Prime Minister expressed all his horror at the seven-year cow trade. The post-tax in the past year has also shown once again how badly the current budget of the European Union is working. I have the impression that the cabinet is not sufficiently aware of what a unique opportunity it has for that presidency in the first half of 2016 to really lead that review of the European multi-annual budget. I am therefore very disappointed that only a seminar is being announced, and the cabinet should look at it with great ambition in D66's view. As far as we are concerned, that agenda is clear. We have to go to an annual budget. There must be flexibility between the different chapters. We have to go to a direct funding facility. And finally, not the least important thing: we need to move towards a much greater focus on results. The European Court of Auditors also pays increasing attention to this every year. I therefore appeal once again to the cabinet to ensure with much more ambition that during the Dutch Presidency a very serious step is taken towards a serious review of the European multi-annual budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u233	I call Mr Klaver. He will also use his colleague Mr Eickhout's speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u234	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank my fellow Members, especially those from the European Parliament. I would like to thank the members of the Cabinet for answering the questions that have been asked. I would like to thank Mr Sjoerdsma for his somewhat entertaining performance just now. He took the measure and pretended I wouldn't trust my colleague Bas Eickhout. He also took my colleagues from the PvdA the measure. He said they'd turn. Now that's usually the case, but not tonight! Tonight my colleagues from the PvdA were crystal clear. Tonight there was only one party that was actually very unclear about what it wants with TTIP and where it stands in this area. I think that was Mr Sjoerdsma's party. He does say to me: you must trust your colleague in the European Parliament Bas Eickhout. He tells me to trust myself because I'm a representative of the people. But, Mr Sjoerdsma, through you, I say to him, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that a European Treaty must be approved by 28 parliaments, and yet you say that it must also be submitted with a referendum. You're running away from your responsibility, Mr Sjoerdsma. On climate change, I had a brief debate with the Foreign Minister. He said that we want binding targets and that we need to achieve them in Paris. However, the Minister for Foreign Affairs is well aware that we are talking in Paris about a binding reduction target. On the other hand, I was talking about a binding target for saving. That is precisely something we should not settle in Paris, but something we should settle within the European Union. That is why I would like to hear from the Minister whether he is finally going to make an effort to achieve a binding objective for the future, and this is very important not only for reduction but also for savings. That's very important. I'm coming to TTIP. In an interrupting debate with Mrs Maij, I think she was asked again by Mr Sjoerdsma, what exactly she is trying to do with her motion on ISDS. What exactly is different about this motion? My group co-signed that motion. The next thing I think is that this motion is different. This motion makes it very clear for the first time that, when it comes to ISDS or forms of ISDS, an embedding should take place within the national legal system. I haven't heard the cabinet say that. If the cabinet did talk about this, then the rulers must, above all, correct me. My speaking time is short, but I would like to make a few more motions. The first is about the circular economy. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the European Commission withdrew the "Circular Economy" package;]] [[Whereas a change to a circular economy is needed;]] [[Whereas the "Circular Economy" package recently withdrawn by the European Commission provides 580,000 sustainable jobs without any risk to democracy;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure to the European Commission that in 2015 a new circular economy package is in place that is at least as ambitious as the withdrawn proposal and contains binding measures and targets to reduce and recycle waste,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Klaver, Mr Sjoerdsma and Mr Maij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34166-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u235	For my part, something has changed on the TTIP file. I sincerely welcome the attitude of the PvdA Group. A number of good motions have been tabled on this point. I really hope that these motions will change the government's commitment to this dossier. I believe that the conclusion of this treaty is a long way away. In the end, however, it is not the cabinet itself that negotiates on this issue, but the European Commission. If we are to have real impact, the Commission's mandate will also have to be adjusted. That is what the cabinet will have to do. In order to do that, I'd like to file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the current negotiating mandate for TTIP provides for the inclusion of an ISDS clause;]] [[Whereas the current negotiating mandate for TTIP ensures that national legal systems are bypassed and that this undermines democratic legitimacy;]] [[Whereas the current negotiating mandate for TTIP does not provide sufficient guarantees to maintain or increase European standards for food safety, the environment, working conditions and social rights;]] [[calls on the Government to make efforts in the Council of Ministers to amend the negotiating mandate for TTIP,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Klaver. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-341666-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u236	This is a logical follow-up to previous statements made by the Chamber today. Without further explanation I am through my time I submit my final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Government is currently engaged in a reform of investment protection in order to ensure State policy freedom;]] [[Whereas the Trade Agreement with Canada (CETA) contains an ISDS clause which does not include all these proposals for reforms;]] [[whereas the policy freedom of States is therefore not guaranteed if CETA remains unchanged;]] [[Calls on the Government to ask the European Commission to open negotiations on CETA immediately with a view to ensuring the freedom of States' policies,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Klaver and Mr Segers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-341666-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u237	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Members of the European Parliament for coming here and, above all, listening. Thank you for their contribution. It was very worthwhile. Thank you also to the members of the cabinet for the answers. Thank you in particular to the Prime Minister, who made it very clear that he is committed to preventing a Brexit. I have noticed that this is the sincere commitment, that there is commitment. Thank you for that. I hope there are no taboos either. If it is stuck with that one sentence, if that is the gesture that has to be made against the British electorate, then let there be no taboo on it, even if it would upset a lot. We are very much in favour of keeping the United Kingdom with the European Union. There's still one question left. I'll put him in front of the Foreign Secretary. I asked about the commitment to the fight against trafficking in human beings. Parliament has said: of all the priorities that we have, we are taking this out; if there is a need for more Europe somewhere, it is in this area. Trafficking in human beings is a great evil. We really need each other in this respect. This could be something that the Netherlands is doing extra work on during the presidency. Parliament has that intention in any case, and I hope that the cabinet has that intention too. I had a motion, but I'm not filing it. I had asked for the Council of State to give its light to the treaty that is before us. The Minister has rightly said that the Council of State is free to do so. At the same time, as a Chamber, we have the freedom and the space to ask for information. That's the royal road. Even though I had collected enough signatures by now and thus found a majority, we are going down the royal road. I will, in consultation with the Registrar, propose to ask the Council of State for information on whether TTIP affects the democratic rule of law, yes or no. That is the big question that has been raised here. I welcome the attitude of the PvdA Group. I don't want to be cynical about that. Thank you for the clarity that has been created. I think we're shoulder to shoulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u238	Mr. Chairman. I raised the issue of the identity of Europe and the European Union. That wasn't a coincidence. I shall therefore take more than average interest in the reaction of the rulers to the motion in part No. 5 listen. It has everything to do with that. Which way do we want to go with European cooperation, the inter-European link? Are we going the way of coercion, or do we continue to respect diversity? An important point of attention remains the principle of law used by the Court of Justice, the so-called 'easy of applying'. This means an endless extension of powers. Indeed, that is not a literally creeping transfer of powers, because there is no transfer at all. Only, the effect is to give more powers to European bodies and thus to implicitly claim them. I could give examples of it, but I will refrain from doing so because of time. There is a fundamental point that is a source of great discontent from many people who criticize the EU and blame the EU for all kinds of things. Only, it's a very invisible thing. There's an important core there. I am tabling a motion on anti-Semitism. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that anti-Semitism is also a persistent problem in the Member States of the European Union and leads to feelings of serious insecurity and alienation among many Jews;]] [[further noted that in the first half of 2016 the Netherlands held the Presidency of the Council of the European Union and identified as one of its priorities "a Union that connects";]] [[calls on the government, during the Dutch Presidency, to make the approach to anti-Semitism in Europe an explicit part of the priority set "a Union that connects,"]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bishop, Mr Segers, Mr Van Klaveren, Mr Omtzigt and Mr Maij.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34166-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u239	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his detailed answer to my questions concerning the Juncker plan. I've appreciated it very much. Mr Rutte has already mentioned the wonderful lever or perhaps the miracle tree that is coming. He was right to put his finger on it. At the same time, I noted the Prime Minister's remark that the Netherlands, industry and provincial and other governments are in the front wagon to see how we can participate in the plans that are coming. It is funny that he made the comparison with the front wagon, because the European Railway Infrastructure Organisation and the European Railway Community, together with 15 other organisations, made a manifest call last week, in which they say: 'Beware that the Juncker plan is not going to undress the trans-European networks and the Connecting Europe Facility'. However, I would like to point out that although the Netherlands seems to be in the front wagon, a number of railway drivers have pointed out the risks posed by the Juncker plan, especially for the infrastructure connections in Europe, on which the Netherlands is also so dependent. I would like to give that message to Mr Rutte. Of course it's nice that we're in the front car, but we have to remember that that train can sometimes go in a direction we don't want.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u240	Mr. Chairman. The debate focused on TTIP today. That is right, because if that free trade agreement is concluded with the United States, we are giving important instruments to make something of the earth's vitality far from our hands. I would like to thank the Labour Party for taking a clear position today. I too have tabled a number of motions because I believe that the debate on TTIP will not end soon. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting the government's commitment to promoting human rights, democracy and the rule of law;]] [[Considering that human rights, democracy and the rule of law will be seriously under pressure when the EU concludes a free trade agreement with the US;]] [[calls on the Government to ask the European Commission to close negotiations on TTIP,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34166-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u241	If this motion is adopted, the debate on TTIP will be ready, but because I fear that this will not happen, I will table two more motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are already many problems in the European Union's internal market, causing people to suffer from poverty and social exploitation;]] [[noting that the European Commission intends to extend the internal market to the United States through TTIP;]] [[points out that enlargement of the internal market with the United States is undesirable,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the inclusion of the US in the European Single Market will make it more difficult to strengthen standards and standards for, inter alia, labour rights, environment and food safety;]] [[in any case, does not agree to free trade agreements such as TTIP if the current European standards and standards are not guaranteed and if opportunities to improve them democratically are limited,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34166-19]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34166-20]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u242	I would like to put to the vote two motions on TTIP and the agreement with Canada on Tuesday. I'll pass on the numbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u243	Thank you. We'll add them to the voting list. I call Mrs Hazekamp, Member of the Group of the Party of Animals in the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u244	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for allowing me to attend today's debate on the state of the Union. It feels very special, but also very familiar. I hope that all the promises and conditions I have heard today, both from the government and from colleagues from Brussels and The Hague, will be maintained, so that trade agreements are not concluded at the expense of our standards, values and standards. However, I am not quite reassured yet. Because you're not sitting at the negotiating table alone. There you have two or more parties. You can make very high demands on food safety or animal welfare, but if the other party doesn't want to, you're empty-handed. Minister Koenders said that during the TTIP negotiations, he will confine himself to subjects on which there is no difference in security standards. However, the negotiator says that nothing will be excluded from TTIP. No GMOs, no hormone meat and nothing else, says Michael Punke, representative of the US Department of Commerce. Recent agreements on battery eggs promise things that cannot be fulfilled. The Commissioner says that Ukrainian battery eggs are allowed, while they are banned in Europe, and that Europe is now trying to raise Ukrainian standards. However, Ukraine's Minister for Agriculture makes it very clear that animal welfare in his country is not an issue. We do not think that we can conclude an agreement with these people without turning ourselves in. The Animal Party doubts that, because to quote a PvdA MEP: pretending to flow to the highest point is naive.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u245	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Cabinet for its reply. My group wants the current EU to be dismantled. We must return to sovereign countries that cooperate economically. That is a good objective if next year the cabinet will hold the EU Presidency. What will the Prime Minister do if there is no doubt that Russia is wholly or partly responsible for bringing down the MH17? I did not receive a clear answer in the first period. We have seen this evening that the basis for an agreement on Iran's nuclear programme has been laid. My group says: no deal rather than a bad deal. Israel has already reacted against it. Iran refuses to make sufficient concessions about its nuclear programme and continues to threaten the Jewish state. My group too is sceptical about the agreements and will take a critical look at them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u246	This ended the second term of office. The government has indicated that it will need some time to prepare its response to the motions tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u247	The Prime Minister has indicated that the Minister for Foreign Affairs will answer in this second term, as will the Government's response to the 19 motions submitted.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u248	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Members of the House of Representatives and the European Parliament for the interesting second term. In fact, few questions have been asked; in particular, Members have tabled motions to strengthen their positions. I'll see the questions asked soon. The VVD Group agreed to underline the importance of the commercial policy instrument. We are very aware of its strategic importance. I think it is important to ensure that, in a multipolar world, there are as many standards as possible at the highest possible level. You must dare to discuss this with other blocks and reach agreement with them; otherwise other parties will set the standards for you, and that would really be a bad thing. A further question has been asked about Taiwan. We have good relations with Taiwan. We're prospective member of the new Chinese bank. Of course, we are not going to oppose Taiwan's membership. Questions have also been asked about transparency. The Netherlands is one of the Member States that is actively committed to increasing transparency in the European Union. The Dutch commitment is shared by a limited number of Member States in the Council. I say to the CDA Group that this is why we will not be able to achieve everything in the area of transparency. In any case, we want to ensure that the existing agreements on transparency are not broken. If that is done, because of the existence of certain majorities, we may be even worse off than the current situation. We are therefore looking very specifically at this. Because of the deadlock, we await what the Commission and the EP intend to do with the Eurowob proposals. The Netherlands continues to support the adaptation of the Eurowob to the Lisbon Treaty. We will therefore have to wait for the progress of this dossier. I would like to comment on the targeted evaluation of the Detaching Directive. Actually, I think I've already answered this question. For us, it is important that all workers in the same country receive equal pay for equal work, which is essential. Indeed, this is not going well in some sectors of the labour market, for example because of unfair competition, bogus structures and so on. The European Commission has announced a targeted evaluation. We expect it at the end of 2015. My colleague Asscher will be sending his response to this to the Chamber shortly. So much for the questions asked. I'll continue the discussion of the motions. The first motion, the one in part No. 2. I want to see it as a policy support. The operative part states that impact assessments should also be carried out at the end of the European legislative process. That is indeed our wish. I think it is important to see this motion in that sense as a support for policy. If the changes in the legislative process give rise to impact assessments, we naturally want to support them. Some changes are not directly concerned with the impact. We are therefore happy to support this motion. The motion in part No. 3 we also see as support for the policy. I would like to point out that the Commission has to make proposals for this, because it has the right of initiative. However, I assume that the motion will be used to that effect. The motion in part No. 4 I see as support for the policy. The negotiations are still ongoing. The cabinet is in the process of removing the objections of the signatories and of the political groups submitting this motion in the negotiations. Then there is the adoption of the Convention. For the sake of clarity, I need to know if my interpretation is correct. ISBS will, of course, become a multilateral mechanism. I assume that I may interpret the phrase 'enbedded in our current legal system' in the motion as: compatible with the current legal system. It is a multilateral instrument.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u249	Let me look at the author, because a specific question is being asked about the interpretation of the motion. I think it would be wise for the Acts to respond to that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u250	So it must not be at odds with our legal system. That's the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u251	That's how I read the motion. So we give it the same interpretation. It's about whether it's compatible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u252	And then the verdict is: support for policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u253	Then we see the motion as supporting policy. The motion in part No. 5, I think it's a tricky motion. As is well known, this autumn the General Affairs Council will discuss this rule of law initiative for the first time. So this is where we lead. That's what we really fought for. The applicant claims that the annual dialogue in the RAZ was established on the basis of our initiative. A second dialogue will be held during the Presidency. The government also points to the Commission's commitment to the rule of law in Member States. This line has the full support of the cabinet. An evaluation of the new annual dialogue will follow at the end of 2016. Only then can you see if sanctions are needed. So the question is whether we should start with a whole system of sanctions already. As is well known, sanctions are already provided for in Article 7 of the EU Working Convention, as well as in the form of infringement cases and mechanisms within the Council of Europe. The CDA Group also pointed that out. I can see the motion as a support for policy, provided that it means that we do not immediately apply sanctions. This must really depend on the initiatives being taken now, such as the first dialogue organised under the Dutch Presidency. It will then be evaluated. In that context, I would certainly like to look at the possibility of sanctions. While it is still so fragile, I do not think that we should necessarily link it to a sanction option. If I may interpret the motion in this way, I see her as a support for policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u254	I see Mrs Maij nodding in agreement. The motion may be interpreted as such. With that, the motion supports policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u255	The motion in part No. 6. is an important motion in the field of the Posting of Workers Directive and the fight against tax avoidance. So we see this motion as a support for policy. The motion in part No. 7 I advise, because it is premature. Minister Ploumen is committed to an ISDS that responds well to the concerns. We'll have to negotiate first and then wait. The ISDS negotiations have yet to begin. I also advise against motions on pieces Nos. 8 and 9. May I come back to the motion on part No. 10?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u256	I would just like to ask you for a moment: the motions on items Nos. 7, 8 and 9 are all policy support?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u257	No, these have all been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u258	Okay. Then it's a good thing I asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u259	I'm gonna continue with the motion on part number one. 11 and then I'll be right back to the motion on part No. 10.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u260	That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u261	The motion in part No. 11, I advise. The motion concerns, among other things, clear lists of European Councils, including voting relationships. There is no vote in European Councils. That's one of the reasons why we dissuade that motion. The same applies to the motion in part No. 12. With all due respect to the position of the PVV Group, but given my input and that of the Prime Minister, Mr Beertema will understand that I must discourage this motion. The Sjoerdsma c.s. motion in piece No. 13, I advise. We have just started a process with the Chamber to organise a seminar to ensure that we get the commitment of the Chamber. As a result, we will discuss this issue in the RAZ. So I think it is really premature to come up with the idea of a euro summit at this stage. We are in the middle of a nice journey to involve the Chamber. So I'm deceiving the motion. The same applies to the Klever c.s. motion. in piece No. 14. It's premature, too. I cannot go into binding measures and objectives at this stage. The European Commission has the right of initiative, as the Chamber knows. I am not going to sit in between that; that would not be in line with international and European relations. I also advise against the Klever motion on item number 15. The current mandate contains sufficient guarantees for the protection of the environment and working conditions. We will, of course, treat all the concerns that the Chamber has shared with us in a serious way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u262	It took a while, I apologize for that, but I would like to come back to the motion in part No. 13, on the budget freeze. I also saw the Prime Minister shake his head, but this commitment has really been made by Minister Timmermans. I'd like to record that again. I do not understand that Minister Koenders is now deceiving this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u263	As far as I know, no commitment has been made about a summit. In any case, with the agreement of the Chamber, we have now chosen the method of starting a seminar. We have to take ourselves a bit seriously internationally. Do you really think it will be convincing if we come up with a summit and organise a seminar prior to that, where we have already finished the conclusion? I have to be able to operate internationally. I therefore dissuade the motion, with all due respect, no matter how important it is to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u264	I'd like to respond to the motion in part No. 15. In the Chamber there has been constant talk of TTIP. That has been an important part of the debate. It seems that there are some accent changes, let me say it carefully in the policy of the cabinet. In my second contribution, I indicated that the European Commission is negotiating. The Commission's mandate will then also have to be adjusted. The Commission is still acting on the basis of the old policy. If we really want change, we will have to open the mandate, for example when it comes to ISDS. That is one of the important issues. The mandate will then have to be narrowed down.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u265	I just said that I see this motion as a policy support. That is a critical policy with regard to TTIP. On that basis, I see no need to open up the European negotiating mandate. So I'm afraid I'm gonna have to discourage the motion. The Klever/Segers motion in part No. 16 is about CETA. I also advise against that motion. CETA already includes many improvements in investment protection, such as transparency and exclusion of letterbox companies. The negotiations do not need to be reopened. Technical improvements are also possible. The Dutch government is also talking about this with the European Commission.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u266	Again, this is rather crucial to see how seriously the government is dealing with the concerns of the Chamber. In CETA, agreements have been made on ISDS. One point, for example, was the debate just now on the arbitration court: three lawyers make agreements on dispute settlement behind closed doors. There has been an explicit exchange of views in this debate that we do not want to do so. If we do agree with Canada, how can we rightly say to the United States: with Canada we thought it was a good idea, but not with you? Then what's your negotiating position? To do that, you really have to break up CETA and say: sorry Canada, this has to come out. Otherwise, your negotiating position vis-à-vis the United States, which the Minister is constantly talking about, is gone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u267	I really disagree with Mr Klaver on that. We have clearly identified how we deal with the concerns that many Members of Parliament have, and nothing should be done about that. The Court's objections relate to the relative appreciation of the concept of 'national sovereignty', the legal system and the level of protection that we do not wish to fall under. It now requires a negotiating mandate. In order to strengthen the power of persuasion or to strengthen the facts, I really need a change in CETA. That's why I don't recommend this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u268	I think it's really weird. There are objections here to an ISDS clause. That really has nothing to do with the United States alone. This has to do with the fact that we simply do not think the way in which this dispute is settled is right. That's also in the treaty with Canada. At the moment there is still the possibility to remove, change or improve this way of resolving disputes. This motion calls for this. The motion says: break it open now, now look at it fundamentally differently. The Minister says that there is no need for that at all. We're gonna see if things can be different with America, we're gonna be committed to that, but with Canada, it can just stay the way it is. I really don't get it!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u269	I have already said that there are many improvements in the area of investment protection in CETA. I call transparency, exclusion of letterbox companies and so on. There are also many improvements possible. I don't want to reopen the negotiations. I do not think that is necessary in order to reach a good agreement with the United States. I come to speak about the motion on item No. 17. I think that is an important motion. The Prime Minister also said that we attach importance to the fight against anti-Semitism. We stand and we in Europe should stand around our Jewish fellow citizens. There is no reason why they need to leave or want to leave. They're supposed to live here, where they're civilians. We consider this important motion to support policy. Mrs Ouwehand will understand that I am referring to the motion on item No. 18 will have to be dissuaded. This motion calls on the government to ask the European Commission to end the negotiations on TTIP. That doesn't fit in with what I advocated tonight. So I'm gonna have to dissuade that motion. The same applies to Mrs Ouwehand's motion on item No. 19. That is actually the same reason. TTIP is not exactly the same as the enlargement of the internal market in the European Union. There are also agreements to remove trade barriers. So I'm going to have to discourage that motion, too. I want the motion in part no. 20 by Mrs Ouwehand also for the same reason. There's another motion I have to pass judgment on. That's the motion in part No. 10.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u270	In my motion to part No. 20 The government is asked to make it clear that we do not conclude such a treaty if it means that our own standards are not guaranteed and/or the possibilities for tightening them are restricted. I do not understand very well that the cabinet is dissuading this motion, while it is constantly trying to make it clear to the Chamber that, if it were up to the cabinet, we should be heading for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u271	I understand Mrs Ouwehand's reasoning. I have also made it clear, also on the occasion of the motion on item No. 4. that we are very keen on this. However, I cannot live with the consideration that the inclusion of the United States in the European internal market is now on the agenda. That's just another debate. The United States will not become part of the European internal market, as we have agreed. I need the motion in part no. 20, therefore, are not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u272	And if I were to drop that consideration and just hold the operative part, what would the cabinet's verdict be?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u273	I continue to dissuade the motion, because the motion I described earlier is more in line with the government's commitment. I come to speak about the motion on item No. 10.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u274	I see Mr. Klaver going to the interrupting microphone. Is that still about the previous point?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u275	It's about an earlier motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u276	First of all, let us do Mr Klaver's interruption. Then what motion is it about?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u277	Sorry, I won't clear it up at 11:05. I'm sure the Minister will be able to follow. It's about the motion in part No. 4, of which Mrs Mai is the first signatory. I signed off on that motion. I have one more question about it in order to clarify how the Minister intends to implement this motion when it is adopted. Does the Minister see that this motion excludes a dispute resolution in a way that I have just described, whereby three lawyers sit in a room, there is no openness and agreements are made secretly?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u278	Yes, I find that difficult at 11.35 p.m. There's talk of three people sitting in a room. As Mr Klaver says, that does not seem to me to be a great thing. I stand by the interpretation given by the author of the motion. That's how I'm gonna carry out the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u279	When he commented on this motion a long time ago, the Minister told him how he was going to interpret it. The author said: I agree with that description. Well, we'll just have to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u280	I didn't take so long for nothing. I had to think about the Minister's lubberian response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u281	I'm very clear!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u282	It is not entirely clear to me how the Minister sees the implementation of this motion. We have constantly stressed that this must fit within the legal system of the countries. Transparency is important. We want there to be an appeal. We do not want the dispute settlement to take place in the way that it is now regulated in many of the treaties that we already have. That means that three lawyers, one of the state, one independent lawyer and one of the company, sit together, I say this to specify the three persons and come to a comparison. That agreement is therefore also binding and no appeal procedure is possible. All the appointments that have been made will remain secret. This is what we want to rule out with this motion. I'll take a look at the petitioner, too. I would like to hear from this Minister: this is exactly how I interpret this motion. Otherwise we really have to look at the text, because then we disagree.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u283	First of all, I note that the Chamber here is expressing its opinion. It is important that we understand what the Chamber thinks, and then bring it into the negotiations. After all, we must return to the Chamber. That's how I'm supposed to read that motion, I think. I said that public dispute resolution is a multilateral instrument. I really don't think there's much difference of opinion on that. What the signatories to the motion want, and I have just asked the author of the motion, is that it will not be something that does not fit into the Dutch legal system. I understand very well that Mr Klaver mentions an example that is probably not in line with the Dutch legal system. Then we're not for it. But I can't respond to all the eventualities right now. Mr Klaver must know the government's intention. There's no difference or double agenda in that at all. We want the multilateral instrument to be compatible, so it is in line with the Dutch legal system. I can't make it any better, and I can't make it any less. It seems to me that this was also the interpretation that had just been given to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u284	Perhaps because it is now 23.39 p.m., I suggest that I hold the motion for a moment and that we get a letter from the government saying it a little more precisely as we just wanted to put it. I agree with the wording that it is not intended that three lawyers behind a closed door should decide to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u285	But of course, three lawyers who decide something behind a door have nothing to do with a legal system. I do not know exactly what wording Mr Klaver is referring to. But let there be no double ground: I am very willing to send that to the Chamber once more by letter. But frankly, it's also about what Mrs Maij means. The Chamber is expressing something, namely: "is of the opinion that ISDS should contain public dispute resolution embedded in our current legal system." The government only says: be aware that it is multilateral, so think about the wording. The fact that it must be compatible with the Dutch legal system, with some of the aspects raised by Mr Klaver, seems clear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u286	Mrs. Maij, I think you're saying you're going to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u287	Yes, exactly. I'll hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u288	The government has promised to respond in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u289	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u290	At the request of Mrs Maij, I propose her motion (34166), No. 4) to be retained. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u291	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u292	This motion is now under arrest.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u293	That's fine, but I have a request. If the Minister responds in writing, I want to prevent us from having to react again. In the written response to this motion, could he also comment on how dispute resolution, such as ISDS, within the current 120 treaties that we have, is regulated here in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u294	Mr President, if I may, I would like to take this up with the Minister of Trade, who must write the letter. I cannot go into that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u295	But you are prepared to understand this with the Minister of Trade.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u296	I shall now turn to the motion for a resolution by Mr Omtzigt/Segers on part No. 10. For us, human rights policy is a priority. We do a lot of that. I sympathise with that and leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u297	I would like to clarify the Minister's position on the Omtzigt motion in part No. 11. Mr Omtzigt is no longer present, but for my own opinion I would like to know whether the Minister is only objecting to the item 'including voting relations'.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u298	No, it's about the whole motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u299	It's all parts of the motion? So: whistleblowers, Eurowob, the decision lists...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u300	The whole of the motion is in such a way as to discourage its adoption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u301	Since the motion contains several parts, which can be excluded or excluded, I would like to know what the objection is to better protection of whistleblowers and to a Eurowob.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u302	With all due respect, there are so many unclear wordings in this motion that the government would not know how to implement it. Of course, we are in favour of openness, openness and transparency. I have just mentioned a number of examples: 'including voting relations' and 'with as few exceptions as possible'. It's always as little as possible, but what does that mean? I also call it 'an improvement in the current implementation'. Anyway, it is a motion that is so vaguely formulated that the government cannot get away with it. That is why I would like to discourage its adoption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-13.u303	We shall be voting on the motions for resolutions tabled next Tuesday. I thank all those present for their participation in the debate and their interest in the debate.
