ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u1	I give the floor to the Prime Minister so that he can continue his first-term response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. I come now to the subject of finance, economics and purchasing power. First of all, I would like to focus on the issue of purchasing power. I would also like to answer a number of questions about the purchasing power of older people. Let me say the following for an introduction. With regard to the always sensitive issue of the purchasing power of older people, I think it is right to establish that this requires a nuanced picture. Sometimes you hear that old people have only been given money. Some people say that the elderly are only getting worse. When you look at the facts, a few things jump out. Firstly, the interdepartmental policy research (ibo) on older people shows that the income position of older people has improved over the past two decades compared to households under 65. This is mainly because new generations of older people, more than previous generations of older people, have a supplementary pension. In addition, if you look at the years 2013-2015, we have to find that older people have had a negative purchasing power effect over workers. This is mainly due to the fact that the indexing rate of pension funds was left behind in wage and price developments. Moreover, it is good to note that the lack of indexing also affects workers. Workers do not see this in their purchasing power, because of course they will not notice it until they retire. The pension structure of workers is also, of course, adjusted with those reduced indexing possibilities. Another delicate and sensitive issue is the risk of poverty among older people. The risk of poverty among older people is the lowest of all age groups. 4.5% of the elderly had an income below the low income limit in 2013. That is about twice as low as the population as a whole, because there the figure is 9.7%. This is also low in international comparisons. What I'm trying to say is that anyone can actually shop in those facts. You can say with Mr Krol and others that in recent years the purchasing power of older people has fallen behind. Then they're right. Others can say that if you look over a somewhat longer period, you can see that older people have benefited a little more than the average of the Netherlands. The underlying causes lie in the fact that pension funds have not been able to achieve an indexing rate in the last few years, which has ensured that the purchasing power of older people remains the same as that of workers. I thought it was good to get those facts straight and nuanced. Again, you can draw all kinds of conclusions from that. They do not contradict the conclusions drawn yesterday by several speakers, but they do help us to put the picture down.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u3	On purchasing power cards in general, I'll come back later. I assume that the Prime Minister is far from done with that. I shall now turn to this point. I would like to refer to what the Prime Minister had the King pronounce. In the Throne speech, the King has literally said, "For pensioners and people with benefits, purchasing power is maintained." That's the story millions of people have been watching at home. Everyone in that situation thought: ah, for pensioners and people with benefits, purchasing power is maintained, because that is what the king said. So that doesn't seem right. 700,000 pensioners and 130,000 people with benefits are either standing at zero or declining. By the way, standing at zero is also going backwards. So you had the King say something that wasn't right. How are you gonna fix that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u4	I think it's different. I have said before that there is no other country in the world that knows purchasing power signs. My party colleague Halbe Zijlstra has also started a kind of holy war against it, but so far he has not been successful, because we are still attached to it every year. These purchasing power figures include the purchasing power development of income groups. Older people in the Netherlands, as a group, are on the increase 0.2% and benefit recipients are on the same level. This means that purchasing power is not falling, but 0.2% is not a significant increase in purchasing power, I admit that. However, if we had not invested EUR 900 million in the recovery of purchasing power for the elderly and beneficiaries of benefits, it would have become clear that there would have been strong mints. The coalition has chosen to let the burden relief land on workers, but at the same time it wanted to ensure that older people and beneficiaries would not fall below zero in purchasing power.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u5	I'll come back to purchasing power later. What matters now is that this Prime Minister continues to cling to the fact that he swings images into the world that are not true. He doesn't only do this himself; he's doing it now even through the King and the Throne. In plain Dutch: this sounds like a lie to people at home. We have had this before with the €1,000 and there are other examples, but now it's happening again. Now the image in which the king literally says in the speech of the throne that pensioners and people with benefits do not go backwards, that their income is maintained, but it is not true. It's not a little bit false, no, it's not true for nearly 830,000 people. Those people feel this and they think: the king said quite another thing. How's the Prime Minister making this up to you? This can't be happening. It's really sticking to him that he swings images into the world that aren't right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u6	Mr Roemer knows how it works. It is impossible to map exactly what the sum of pluses and minuses is for each individual beneficiary or pensioner; that is what we do for groups. When you look at the group of older people, you can see that they are making more progress than they are getting worse. On average, there is more purchasing power increase than a fall in purchasing power. The group as a whole improves about two tenths. That is very little, but if we had not repaired the purchasing power, there would be a considerable minus. There is also a small plus for beneficiaries. That's how the system works.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u7	It's not small. The Prime Minister may try to marginalize this, but he has done so through the King in the Throne speech to insult nearly 1 million people. People don't talk in medians and averages, they just look: what does this mean to me? The Prime Minister already knew very well before the throne speech that it would be less for nearly 1 million people. Yet he lets the king say that it stays up to everyone's standards. You can't do that. I believe that the Prime Minister should apologize to the people for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u8	I really don't see it that way. The system we have chosen for working with purchasing power is based on groups. The group of older people and the group of beneficiaries are improving. You can have a debate about the fact that they are making limited progress in relation to the workers, which is a choice, but they are making progress. If we had not invested heavily in purchasing power recovery, that would not have happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u9	I would like to hear what part of the progress that is not there is structural and what part of it is incidental. To make the example even clearer. The Nibud has calculated that someone with only AOW and care costs per month is €140 going backwards and only AOW is nothing at all. If there is an AOW with a slightly larger pension, the Nibud says that you are going to fall back €200 per month due to the accumulation of costs. I'm sorry, but then the King's words pass by all kinds of people. I don't understand why the Prime Minister had him pronounce it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u10	You do purchasing power repair every year. Every year you look at the situation of the different income groups. The coalition had to answer the question of how it would deal with the strong loves that stood out for pensioners and benefit recipients before 2016. You always do this for a year. This means that next summer will be looked at again. We have solved this by allocating a total of EUR 877 million for a purchasing power package aimed at the elderly and benefit recipients. This includes the failure to continue with the cut in the rent allowance, a one-off extension of the temporary increase in the care allowance, an increase in the child-related budget for the second child and an increase in the elderly discount.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u11	I ask my question again: what is structural and what is one-off? What do you say to the people who are reducing €120 or even a multiple of them and who have heard the king say that their purchasing power remains the same? That's just not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u12	On the second question, I give the same answer as I gave Mr Roemer three times with great pleasure. I have just given the answer to the first question. We spend our year on purchasing power repair every year. We keep looking at the situation in August and where purchasing power repair is needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u13	The cabinet, this prime minister, looks at the median purchasing power development. Then purchasing power development is positive for everyone. However, the claim in the Throne speech was very different, namely that everyone is improving on it. If you then note that this does not apply to all groups, 16% of the people do not progress, can you but conclude that the statement in the Throne speech is not correct? It's okay to say that maybe you should have expressed yourself a little more nuanced about that or that you're still trying to fix it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u14	If it did not go well, I would like to admit it here, but I believe that the text is correct. Because we're starting from groups. A group of older people and a group of beneficiaries are making progress. The group of workers is making the most progress. That's the choice the coalition made. However, we did not want to see, as the workers progress significantly, there to be significant loves for benefit recipients and the elderly. We have managed to improve those groups too, albeit modestly. That costs a lot of money, but we're doing it for a very good reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u15	I'm still trying to follow it. The Millions note says that 16% of people are either getting worse or not getting better. They don't benefit from it. Yet the Prime Minister says that what is in the Throne speech is true. Everyone in the Netherlands is improving. You can't keep that going, can you? That's not right, is it? Everyone says or writes something wrong. Then you can just say that maybe you should have been a little more nuanced, that this was a little too exuberant and that maybe you should have been a little more sober in the throne speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u16	It seems as if we had already heard Mr. Klaver for writing the throne speech. After all, with that thought in mind, we have written the speech of the throne.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u17	It is nice that the Prime Minister wrote the speech on the throne with that in mind, but I ask whether he has not been far too positive. If you're saying that everyone's getting better and this isn't backed up by the numbers, you have to conclude that it's not true? Then you can come back to it and say you should have been more nuanced? I mean, you can say that medians are getting better, but this doesn't apply to every individual, right? That's one extra sentence. That would have been much clearer for people in the Netherlands, wouldn't it? Now it seems as if the cabinet has promised that everyone is making progress, while that is not at all the issue. Be honest about that, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u18	In the speech of the throne, it is reported that purchasing power is maintained for older people and beneficiaries and that there is a strong plus for workers, and that is also true.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u19	I think the cabinet is hiding behind a very short time. That system lasts for one year. I guess a lot of old people don't realize that. This repair, in particular for the elderly and beneficiaries, covers 850 million and applies for one year. Then we just fall back to the disappointing figures you presented before the summer. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u20	That's how the system works. In the summer you will see the consequences of all measures taken by the cabinet for the purchasing power of large groups of Dutch people and you will fix them. In addition, you should be careful not to repair for non-indexing pensions, because that is a matter outside the government. So you look very closely at the purchasing power effects, especially those for the elderly, and look at what is and is not related to the indexation of pensions, to prevent you, what happens in the second pension pillar, from making this all the responsibility of the government. That is not desirable. After we have weighed all this up and studied it carefully, we have come to this purchasing power package. This must always be done in August in the purchasing power decision-making process leading up to this debate and, of course, to Princess Day. We have to do that again next year. Then we look again at the whole situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u21	The Prime Minister just accused me of not choosing D66 for the elderly. It's clear now that the cabinet doesn't either, does it? It's a one-time thing. The eulogy of the throne seems to me to be such a financial product. The king may say things on behalf of the cabinet, but in fact it must be broadcast behind it: bear in mind that this product is very dangerous. There's always such a beautiful line. I would almost say that the Prime Minister should not do it to the King to give rise to the idea that older people are making structural progress. No, it's a one-year repair. Perhaps the Prime Minister took into account that he would no longer bear the responsibility for it next year, but he will pay a very heavy bill of 850 million next year. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u22	No, you'll have to review that in next year's purchasing power decision. You cannot now make predictions about how much purchasing power repair is needed. Where this cabinet fixes purchasing power, D66, in its counter-budget, causes it to deteriorate structurally very much for the elderly and benefit recipients. That's a choice you can make, but it's a different choice from ours. I notice that as a lighter note to conclude my reaction, and I am glad that Mr Pechtold is so concerned about the position of the king. I do. That's why we're paying very close attention to what he's saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u23	We'll get to that in a minute. I say to the Prime Minister: prepare yourself, because there are still some problems about the royal house and the finances. The cabinet should have simply provided a financial package leaflet with this budget. It makes no sense to go you-bake and say: D66 makes it much worse. That's not true. We are concerned that many elderly people are waiting for this to happen, that generations will have opportunities in the labour market, that will attract the economy and we will be able to support responsible people in their purchasing power, and not from the debts of the next generation soon to give a gift that will be worthless next year. Because that is the reality. The Prime Minister thought he could get away with it, but we did expose it nicely here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u24	I understand that Mr Pechtold is proud of that finding, but she is not right. In the summer, in August, we always look at how all cabinet measures work out for different groups in the Netherlands, such as workers in all kinds of special situations, older people, benefit recipients. If you find that in that picture imbalances arise.............................................................................................................................................................. That's what happened this time. We will, of course, try that again next year if it would be necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u25	I understand from the last words of the Prime Minister that the cabinet always looks very closely at how imbalances should be eliminated. I drew attention to the one-earners yesterday. Does he consider the tax burden on single-earning families to be balanced against two-earning families?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u26	The purchasing power of two-earners and of one-earners will increase next year. Both groups therefore benefit from the reduction of charges. It is also true that, in the purchasing power picture, two earners are making more progress than one earner. So they are both improving, but the two-earners are indeed making more progress. This is mainly due to the intensification of the childcare allowance and the income-dependent combination reduction. That's part of the tax package. We have opted for an intensification of these arrangements because it simply has a direct positive impact on employment. This also fits in with the government's focus to strengthen employment in particular. However, due to previous discussions with Mr Slob and Mr Van der Staaij, we have also looked in particular at the position of sole earners. This has led to an increase in the child-related budget from the second child. This has an advantage especially for large families, including many of the sole earners. That is why all groups are making progress. Anyway, that was the short shot.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u27	I know these numbers. It is good to get them straight again, but my question was whether the Prime Minister considers the tax burden on families with a single earner balanced with families in the same composition with two-earners. That was my question. I would like to have an answer to that. I have a view of it myself, but I would like to know what the Prime Minister thinks about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u28	Of course, it's size. As a cabinet, we have chosen to use the money in such a way that it has the maximum effect on employment growth. Then you can see that measures, especially with regard to the income-dependent combination discount and the childcare allowance, have important effects, more than the child-related budget. You can make shifts from those choices to the child-related budget. That's a choice you can make. That's not unethical at all. It is only a difference from the valuation we have made with regard to our proposals. From the point of view of employment participation, we have made this choice. In addition, we looked at whether the families with a breadwinner were making progress and that was the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u29	Mr President, you are listening, so I am again not getting an answer to my question. I ask whether the Prime Minister considers the tax burden on families with a single earner to be balanced in relation to what happens to two-earners. I'll give him the answer. If you have a family where both partners work and they each earn about €20,000, add up to €40,000, and you have a family where a partner who also earns €40,000, that last family pays five times more tax than the family with the two earners where the same amount is earned; that's about €2,000 compared to €10,000. I see the Minister of Finance now looking with frowned eyebrows, but I can report that this has been calculated by experts. And if it's any different, I'd like to hear it today. In any case, I do not think it is balanced. I understand that there is a difference and I understand that the government also has views on promoting employment, although we all know that you should not exaggerate, because there are reports from the CPB that suggest that raising the childcare allowance really does not mean a run on the labour market; that effect is even very modest. So that's a choice but it's also a choice to make the difference that big. Madam President, I would like to ask the Prime Minister through you: will you do something about this, because this is not to be explained to the people?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u30	This is the cabinet's proposal and we are talking about it now. I simply imagine that this debate will continue in the General Financial Reviews. Of course, I also hear what is being said about it from other circles, but these are the choices we have made now. I am naturally defending them here because they meet the coalition's objective of achieving employment participation. By the way, Mr Slob is right that this child care allowance cannot continue indefinitely. It is not the case that as you increase it, the number of jobs increases linearly, but because of previous discounts, this additional investment in the childcare allowance does indeed have a labour market effect. Of course, I also know very well the political position of the Christian Union and the SGP on this dossier, so I understand this question from Mr Slob. Only, we've made another choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u31	On this point, the Prime Minister says that this point is very much alive in the Christian Union and the SGP, but I would like to tell him that it is actually a much broader point. If you're a teacher at a school, you have a couple of kids at home and you earn €40,000 as a earner, you have to pay about that €40,000 €10,000 tax, while your neighbors who have the same job and the same family income pay five times as little tax. Doesn't the Prime Minister think that this is an imbalance which should be said by everyone to undermine people's freedom of choice?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u32	Yes, of course, this also has to do with the fact that we are gradually coming to a reduction in the double tax rebate. This is a choice we have made that also has a positive effect on the labour market. Once again, I understand very well what Mr Van der Staaij is saying. The tricky thing is that we have all these purchasing power cards. In it, you try to achieve as much as possible a balanced distribution across all groups, at the same time taking into account that the primary objective is to maximise the contribution to employment growth through the growth of the economy. This is a debate we have often had. We have done something for the sole earners at the same time by increasing the child-related budget, but of course I understand from the position of Mr Van der Staaij that he does not think that is enough. I think we should continue this debate with each other, also in the context of the General Financial Reviews.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u33	I do think it would be good to discuss this, but I would also like to hear it if these figures, which have come out again today, were not correct. I also assume that they are correct in this relationship. Does this mean that the Prime Minister sees room for adjustment, including within the framework of the Tax Plan, which could also benefit the earner's families?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u34	In that I have a more general position. We lay down our piece here, our vision. This is a view in which we are trying to avoid groups and at the same time to maximise labour market effects. Then, of course, the question arises as to whether this is poured into concrete. No, I have already said that perhaps we should discuss this subject further in the General Financial Reviews. That is all I can say, because this is what we find and what we are defending.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u35	I understand if you're just looking at purchasing power. Then it is not so strange that you say that even those single-earning families have deteriorated for years and that most of them are now making a bit of progress. So that's definitely positive news in itself. The increase in the child-related budget also helps. So I acknowledge all that, but does the Prime Minister understand that this gap and the sense of justice about how to pay taxes on the same household income is a separate issue and that these differences in tax burden are perceived as unfair?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u36	The tricky thing is that you have to look again at all kinds of conditions in families and that, of course, here is the transferability of the double tax rebate and its effect in the reference minimum wage. Of course, this has all kinds of effects, but we wanted them with each other. The aim was to make work more attractive and to ensure positive labour market effects. You'll see that too. What we are looking at now is not the speeding up of the double tax reduction but instruments such as the childcare allowance and the income-dependent combination discount. Of course, you can make other choices, but then you have to realize that you immediately see them in the labour market effects. I want to watch over the buttons of the transferable tax rebate, because for that we have now agreed on a path that also goes a little slower and more slowly than we planned five or six years ago. I think that is a sensible line, but once again, I think it would be good to discuss these issues in the context of the Financial Reviews.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u37	Mr Slob and Mr Van der Staaij asked whether you would like to come back to this particular calculation example in the second term and whether that is true.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u38	I do not know that example, I have to check whether the Minister of Finance knows it. I will try to answer it in the second term, if you will give it to the officials. I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u39	I get that. Mr. Roemer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u40	Mr President, yesterday I warned you yesterday in my first term that the Prime Minister would call this story 'balanced purchasing power cards'. The day hadn't started yet, or there he was. It was balanced.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u41	I started the migration.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u42	Let us take a look at what is now balanced, because in the Macro Economic Recognition, which is being passed on by the Central Planning Office, the CPB clearly concludes that there is a significant increase in income inequality. A logical question then is what is balanced about that, especially when I read in the figures of the Ministry of Social Affairs that the people with the lowest incomes are just at zero. Let that be just the group where 400,000 children have to grow up below the poverty line. Let that be just the group that is struggling massively with paying the care premiums. That group is at zero, while this cabinet increases inequality with this policy. So the people with the highest incomes are making the most of it. What is balanced about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u43	It's not right, that's point one.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u44	What isn't? Numbers, come on!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u45	Yeah, I'm gonna try. Let me first say that as far as income relations are concerned, this cabinet sails on the compass of the 2012 Zijlstra/Samsom motion. There have been adjustments to this later in 2014, but we are consistently implementing this motion. Furthermore, the cabinet has also looked at the special position of people with benefits and has chosen to make significant progress on the part of low-income workers. We have done this very consciously, because working becomes a lot more attractive when the benefits are a little bit higher and the incomes of low-income people increase significantly. That narrows the so-called wedge. Mr Roemer knows the problem that in the past there were people who said: I can't afford that job, because then I'm going backwards. So we try to go as far as possible to the situation that pays off. You can do that by lowering the benefits, but I don't think anyone here wants that, or you're trying to keep the benefits up while you're trying to raise the salaries of the lowest paid. So they are actually making more progress than the higher incomes. If you say 1% out of a million is more than 5% out of €30,000, then: duh! Of course! Of course, it's about percentages.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u46	The Prime Minister said my story wasn't right, but then he didn't answer. So my story is good! Thank you. The Central Planning Bureau writes that income inequality is growing considerably. That's a fact. I'm not saying that. It's the Central Planning Office. On page 148 of the Social Affairs Ministry's budget, it says that the social minimums, a few with children, single people and single elderly people get zero. I see the Prime Minister being whispered, but there really is zero in the Social Affairs Minister's budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u47	It's a co-production.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u48	You'll make two tons here in the country. The minister says about those people "it's only 1.4%" but it does mean that people who were already very good at the weak are getting €2,800. If you are at €20,000, you get €140. That's 20 times less than the highest income. The people with the lowest incomes, the people who can't pay the bills anyway, also face higher premiums and a higher own risk. So the families with children living below the poverty line get nothing. Again, what is balanced about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u49	If we look at absolute income levels and what a percent does on a million or a percent at $20,000, then yes, then... then it becomes complicated. I think we're always looking at how purchasing power...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u50	It's about the pennies!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u51	Can you control yourself? Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u52	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u53	I think we're always watching how purchasing power develops in terms of percentages. That's how it goes. The purchasing power of low-income workers is about to increase considerably, and I think that this is very justifiable, because it makes work pay. We have the highest benefits in the Netherlands and we are not going to lower them. But we really have a very decent social security in the Netherlands. You must, I believe, go to Sweden or Denmark to have it even better. We're not gonna change that either. In fact, there too, we have maintained purchasing power. It is even rising a little bit and what we are doing is certainly not at the expense of people with benefits. We do want work to pay more. That's what we're doing now. There's some room for that, too. It is good for the economy and economic growth. If you then talk about what a percentage means for a higher income, then... I find it very balanced that high-income workers have lower growth than low-income workers. It doesn't work leveling either, because you don't take money from higher incomes to lower incomes. You do make it attractive for the lower incomes to start from a benefit. I think that is a good policy and I do not understand what Mr Roemer can say about it, especially since he himself proposes to reduce VAT. That is, of course, de-levelling and that is why I do not understand him.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u54	The Prime Minister accuses me that my story is wrong or wrong, and then he confirms that it is true. Let's be clear and take a look at it from the perspective of the people at home. People aren't looking at percent, people are looking at pennies. It means that if you are at the social minimum, you can turn in and if you are among the highest income groups, you will improve thousands of euros. The Prime Minister is therefore making sure that our salary, and certainly that of the people in trade union K, goes up sharply and that the income of people with children who grow up in poverty remains at zero. And then he has the guts to say here in the Chamber: that's balanced; you shouldn't think in pennies, you should think in percentage. Let me say one more thing to the Prime Minister. If I don't have money to buy a loaf of bread, then I really don't have to come up with a percentage, because I really have to pay with pennies. If you don't have it, your kids don't have breakfast in the morning. And 400,000 kids go to school without breakfast! I think it is too scandalous for words that the cabinet takes the word 'balanced' in its mouth and lets all those people who do not make ends meet just choke.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u55	I think this is an absurd argument. I can't make it prettier. I think the reasoning is really wrong. Fortunately, in the Netherlands there is once again a tax meevaller to be distributed. If it is already possible to lower taxes, then of course you will see if you can do it properly. If you did it completely neutrally, you'd make sure that all workers progress about the same. We don't. We choose to let the people with the lowest incomes get a little better. In doing so, we want the difference between benefits, which are not going down, but which are going up even a little bit, and increasing the number of workers, so that work becomes more attractive. Mr Roemer cannot run away from the fact that in the Netherlands we have a very decent social security with a high level of benefit. If you did not do anything about the position of low-income workers, the level of benefit could stand in the way of getting started. Then you have two options. You can lower the benefits, but we don't. Or you can make workers make progress, if there's room for that. Again, I really do not understand the almost VVD-like choice that Mr Roemer makes to reduce VAT. He should make very different choices. What he wants with that is really VVD light.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u56	The Prime Minister can run away whatever he wants. I'd rather he really did, but that's different.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u57	No, you don't!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u58	The Prime Minister says it is balanced, while the Cabinet with a Minister for Social Affairs of the PvdA House therefore has no regard for 400,000 children below the poverty line. They stay at zero. The cabinet has no regard for the fact that 1 million people are unable to pay care contributions and that there are more than 350 000 people with a payment scheme. He says it's balanced, while 139.000 people with the minimum social burden are getting worse. Then it is good that the people with the highest incomes are making the most of it, and then he takes me by measure! I have an eye for people who can't make ends meet. I want the social minimum to go up. If only this cabinet did so, because then we can at least really give these children a future and don't have to look at the Prime Minister who says in the Youth Journal: you can go whining for a present, unless your father or mother is on a benefit.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u59	I do not solve the problem of children in poverty by raising the minimum wage or the social minimum. That's not gonna fix it. There will always be groups that will end up in poverty as a result of a combination of circumstances. That's terrible. This will always be subject to customisation. This is not solved with generic benefit levels or with the linking of minimum wage and social minimum. You solve that with well-stocked pots for special assistance, for customization, and we have that in the Netherlands. We all have arrangements for people who, due to a combination of circumstances, may be workers with a small job or those with a debt, are in trouble. I realize they don't always reach all people. There will always be people, and I hate that too, who are therefore in poverty. We really don't have to take each other's weight. I am as sorry as you are, Mr Roemer, but I am not dealing with the instruments that you have here. You propose generic instruments which do not provide a solution and which also prevent the recovery of employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u60	Has the cabinet taken into account the position of people with disabilities in the trade-offs it made when it moved to a balanced distribution in its view? Has their position been reflected in the choices made by the cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u61	When you look at purchasing power, you do it so that you look at the larger groups. I assume Mr. Slob is referring to people in WIA or WAO benefits? I'm trying to understand the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u62	People with disabilities are also chronically ill and disabled, for example. That's a pretty big category in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u63	You look at the whole, including the measures in the field of long-term care, income support for special groups. They are not always in the purchasing power picture, I must add. These are often separate arrangements, but the Cabinet also has an eye for them, and we are always trying to look at them in conjunction.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u64	Has the government taken note of the Nibud's calculations concerning people with disabilities and of the consequences of government policy on their purchasing power, on the other groups, on the workers, on the people without restrictions, or as we said yesterday: on people who think they have no restrictions and who do not incur additional costs? How do the consequences for them relate to those for the group which clearly goes through life with a limitation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u65	Every year we have a discussion here about the purchasing power picture, the Central Planning Bureau, the Cordelia and, of course, the Nibud. The Nibud is not a government institution, but it calculates and draws on all kinds of things that are relevant to the debate here too. This coalition doesn't need the VVD for that and doesn't need the VVD the PvdA to try to serve people who are weak, who have to do with a sum of problems that they can't do anything about themselves, in a decent way. This is what we do with the reorganisations in long-term care. That is what we do in terms of income support. That is what we do in all respects.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u66	If the Prime Minister has really taken note of the Nibud figures on these groups, then he must be shocked. There are big differences. These differences are too great in our eyes. I ask the Prime Minister to come back to this in the second term, if he has the exact figures in mind. I think there is reason to see if we can reduce these differences, because I cannot fully explain this to people.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u67	I haven't seen the latest Nibud numbers. If you give them to us or if we can find them ourselves, I will try to deal with them in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u68	In addition, I would ask the Prime Minister to look at the people who are already at the minimum and who are really going down. The Prime Minister must realise that they do not have the time to wait until August next year for it to be repaired. They need that €100 again every month.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u69	The Prime Minister just made it appear as if people can happen because of a confluence of circumstances in the problems and in poverty, sometimes you have bad luck and then you have to solve it through special assistance. Of course, it doesn't work that way. Ultimately, this cabinet makes the political choice to which it spends the money. This cabinet, for example, chooses to put 900 million euros in the fourth disc. We could have used that money to help lower incomes a little bit more. That choice is not made. Why not? Why is there investment in that fourth disc now? What effect does the cabinet intend to achieve in this respect?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u70	Do you mean the extension of the third disk?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u71	It is indeed about the extension. That way people don't get into the fourth disc until later. This is about the highest incomes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u72	This is also part of a balanced purchasing power picture. You need to separate this from the ideology of coalition parties. I have already said that we are sailing on the compass of the 2012 motion of the two group chairmen. You're trying to distribute prosperity in a decent way as far as the cabinet's concerned. People make individual choices, start a business and may become very rich or end up very poor. People can become unemployed. Anything can happen. The government tries to look at the generic income relationships in the Netherlands in a decent way. Then you look at all the incomes in the Netherlands. That makes sense, doesn't it? You can't just look at the lowest incomes, can you? Then you have to look at all the incomes and then provide a decent relationship between those incomes?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u73	I think you should look at where the need is highest and where intervention by the government and purchasing power repair is most important and has the most effect. This cabinet is full of job creation. What is the employment effect of this adaptation to the third disc, which means that people will not reach the highest tax rate until later? That's pretty nil. In the field of employment, it does almost nothing. In the area of redistribution, reducing differences, it does almost nothing. So it is not just or effective. Which of the coalition parties are you serving here?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u74	You're gonna have to tell the whole story. We are also taking other measures aimed at higher incomes. You're also looking at the marginal pressure. You look at all income groups how attractive it is to work at all and possibly to work more, to get the best out of yourself at all levels. You're trying to distribute prosperity in a decent way. I think that's what we do. This is a very neat purchasing power image. There's no weird outliers in it at all. A choice is being made: now that there is room for relief, we are putting it mainly into workers without compromising the benefit-holders and pensioners.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u75	I'm fighting that choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u76	I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u77	I'm telling you, you need to see exactly where the need is most at the moment. Which people are most in need of purchasing power improvement? You have to do that instead of spending the money unfocused everywhere. I'm sticking to my question. The Prime Minister says you have to tell the whole story and look at the whole story. Then answer the question of the impact of the extension of the third strand on employment or on the employment rate. Then what's the precise effect?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u78	In all tax records, with all the effects of tax measures, you have to look at what an extra earned euro means to encourage people to work more, to accept that next job or to pursue that promotion. That's what you're trying to do. This is true at all levels. That's the mailman who has the chance to be head of the mailroom. That's the deputy director who has the chance to be director. On all these levels, you do that. You're trying to stimulate that sense of ambition, of improvement, at all levels. That was also in the Throne speech. You try to do this wisely in a progressive tax system that we have in the Netherlands; we have no flat tax. I think this coalition is doing the right thing. There are no crazy outliers in it. This also has a positive effect on employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u79	How much?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u80	In total, we have seen these figures. If you look at the whole picture, you get to 35,000 in the longer term. But Mr Klaver actually says: I just want to look at the groups that are struggling. So if you do that, you're gonna have a completely different goal with that tax cut. It's possible. That is also what Mr Roemer said. He says: I actually want to give much more to elderly people and beneficiaries. In the case of older people, I think: beware that as a government you do not compensate for the problem of indexation, because then we gradually become the owner of the second pension pillar. In the case of beneficiaries, I say: we already have a decent level of benefit in the Netherlands, just be careful not to increase it so that work does not become attractive, and if there are problems, then provide opportunities for tailor-made work. We put a lot of money into special assistance. That's how you do it. This is not an issue that we in the coalition are fighting about either. This is something VVD and PvdA think exactly the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u81	Last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u82	This is my last question, but I'm going to let you know that the PvdA and the VVD look at this in exactly the same way and that it's obviously fine that the lowest incomes are much less advanced when you look at what they have left in their wallets. I think you should look at that. But I don't get this, and I'm trying to understand that. This cabinet says: we are doing everything we can to ensure that we create more jobs. It is based on a study by the CPB. Whatever you think of that, it is said that the measures taken by the government to boost the highest incomes do not have an additional effect on employment participation or employment, and that they are only intended to repair the purchasing power of groups in society that need it much less than children living in poverty. That's a choice. That may be so, but do not talk about balanced distribution of purchasing power and do not say that it would be so good for the economy, employment and employment, because that is simply not true. And if it is true, the Prime Minister must try once not to fall into all kinds of vagueness and generalities and not to drag us into the swamp. Then he'll have to name one number he's based on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u83	Then I would like to challenge Mr Klaver to give the whole picture of all incomes in the Netherlands, including higher incomes. That's where other things happen. He knows that, too. He is now only looking at the 52% top-line rate, in which many people end up much later. You also have to look underwater at what happens to the general tax discount and the labour discount. Those are all effects. In all these income groups, that has effects. This ultimately leads to the very balanced picture that exists today and that also has a positive effect on employment. I think that's fine. For me, it is a first step. I have not experienced this before, that we are moving from percentages to absolute amounts. I really need to think about what I think about that before the next debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u84	I was thinking about that as well, but in relation to the SP proposal to reduce VAT by 2%. Does the Prime Minister agree with me that the SP proposal will reduce the price of a Porsche Panamara by €2,000 and the price of a bread by €0.03? Does the Prime Minister agree with me that the SP is making a proposal to overtake the VVD on the right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u85	I already said "VVD light." Only, I will have to call my predecessor first for the price of a Porsche Panamera to see what the purchase price is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u86	I looked it up. The price of a Porsche Panamera is about a ton.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u87	There. I drive an old Saab.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u88	Yes, you can choose various versions, but it seems to cost about a ton. It's only available for people with a lot of money. These people are greatly helped by the Socialist Party's proposal to reduce VAT by 2%, because a Porsche Panamara will be €2,000 cheaper in that proposal. And bread, which everyone really needs, becomes €0.03 cheaper. So if we are talking about percentages and cents, I wonder if the Prime Minister can reflect on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u89	I believe that Mr Samsom has a point to make here. Tonight we go to the exit of the parking garage where Mr. Roemer comes out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u90	I suggest that you, Mr Samsom, take some lessons from your colleague Corbyn in England, who understands what you need to do in the Netherlands and what you need to do to really help people with the lowest incomes. The Labour Party, which is simply responsible for the social minimum going down in the coming years. The Labour Party, which just sits here while the Netherlands screams to do something about child poverty. The Labour Party, which just sits here, while a million people cannot pay the health insurance contributions. And then I'll take the measurements of a Porsche, which you actually want to have yourself, because your salary will go up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u91	I suggest that the Prime Minister continue with his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u92	I think it is best that Mr Roemer agrees that we should move on to the next issue, namely the question of collective agreements, within the area of economics. I come to Mr Buma. I haven't been able to answer it yet, but he's already into it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u93	No, I don't like that at the moment, because I thought this was the issue of purchasing power. Is the 5 billion further on the subject of economics? Because I have a question about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u94	Yes, I would like to touch on the specific issue of the capital efficiency levy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u95	I had another question about the 5 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u96	Mr Buma, ask your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u97	The other questioners are very keen on purchasing power measures. I realize that in the tenth percentage, that's always difficult. The CDA's and the Cabinet's efforts for the 5 billion are jobs. That is why we were surprised that LIV, lower taxes on small jobs, was exchanged for a purchasing power measure. The CDA regrets that, because we thought the original proposal was better. Can the Prime Minister say again why the specific choice has been made to transfer burden relief to small jobs to rent subsidies and health care payments?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u98	The question that Mr Buma raised yesterday was why half a billion of this low income provision is not being used for this as early as 2016. This has to do with the date of introduction. It is not possible to do that already in 2016. We looked into it. I just can't. This means that it can only be done from 2017. Next, Mr Buma asked the question: if you only do it from 2017 and it doesn't come to payment until the end of 2017, will the money be available for perhaps another way of reducing the burden? I'm afraid not. The Tax Administration has reported that implementation can only take place in 2017; I have just said that. In addition, it works that already in 2016 that money can be used for other things, but that it is only in 2017 that it is actually included in the books. Unfortunately, that money is not available for coverage in 2017. So it is a problem of implementation, but we really want the same thing as soon as possible. So we have been able to use it for 2016 for purchasing power repair. I'm just checking to make sure I don't forget purchasing power questions. No. Then I come to the issue of capital efficiency tax. We have looked for a new design of the flat-rate return that is more in line with the average yields achieved in the market. I hear a lot of people asking if we can't rely on the actual return. I'd love to. I would prefer to assume the real return, so that I know from Mr Klaver: you had this on 1 January, and you had this on 31 December, and this is the 30% return that is taxed. At least at the moment, this appears to lead to enormous implementation costs, high administrative burdens and many legal procedures. It would be particularly good for the employment of the Tax Administration. However much we respect that highly professional organisation, it is not an end in itself to increase employment there. That is simply not possible. What we do want to do is periodically, for the first time in 2020, to review to what extent and in what time it is possible to switch to a system whereby you tax the actual return. That is not technically possible at the moment. Then, of course, the question of what the design looks like. We will update the realised return annually. Every year, we will look at how stocks develop, how savings develop, and so on. If the return on savings or on shares changes in the future, this will also continue to work, although with some delay, which is inevitable in the flat-rate return. It is therefore not a static amount, it will always be adjusted according to real yields. We think that it is fairer and better suited to what you would like than in the current situation, simply because it corresponds to the average return achieved in the market. I think that is also seen by people as being more decent than the current system in which everyone across-the-board is hitting 30% on a fictional return of 4%.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u99	Two things. In the implementation it becomes extremely complicated. In essence, it is a stalemate that comes into the wealth tax. I have heard that tax lawyers are already making arrangements to get out of this, boxhopping, or advising to go to other countries. We're definitely gonna have to deal with assets going abroad again. I think the most important thing is how the Prime Minister can take this ideologically for his hood. This is what the French economist Piketty wants, so taxing wealth in this way. Anyone who has had a shop or farm for his life, sells his business or has built up a good fortune is now punished for that. I ask the Prime Minister to come up with a system that is fairer and that people who have been thrifty don't take harder on the assumption that they're going to get a higher return.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u100	You're in line with the average return achieved, and that seems fair to me. That's what the system does. You're adjusting that, too. If shares fall suddenly, the return for the higher asset class may decrease. That therefore has an impact on tax collection. It may also happen that interest rates are rising. If that happens, it'll affect power up to a ton. In the current ratio it seems progressive, but that is because at the moment the different asset titles have these underlying revenues, and that is flat-rate. So we keep adjusting it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u101	The explanation that has come to us so far was that the small saver must be helped. But when the little saver gets more interest, his taxes go up. Then he'll have to, uh, go to stock. That's not a system, is it? We now have a system that, of course, raises questions, but it is simple and that also means that hopping from one investment or saving system to another is not so strong. Minister Zalm made that up at the time. You can talk about a higher exemption, sure. But this way it just gets more complicated. The Prime Minister knows that, doesn't he? Surely this is much more of a political toy than the solution to any problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u102	I know that in the media, Mr Buma, I saw that he dug in on this point. I'm gonna try to dig him out a little bit. I sincerely disagree with him that this would be our goal. If the aim was to reduce the tax burden on savings, Mr Buma would be right. But that's not the point. The goal is to tax what people are experiencing right now. If you have savings right now, you have to do it very handsomely, you want to make a return of 1.2%. That often doesn't work. If the interest rate goes up, then the tax will also go up. You pay 30% over an x-percentage. This develops in time, up or down. The same applies to shares that go up or down. I think this is a fairer system than the present one. The goal is not to spare the small saver, but to connect more with the real experienced return. So that's what we're adjusting. Like all of us on this side of the room, I would also prefer to go to a system that allows you to switch directly to the really experienced return, so the return you have really achieved. I said that it is not technically possible. We also looked at a counter-proofing scheme. Suppose you have a lot of money and think you've made much less return than the flat-rate return. That too is a practical dragon. Both would lead to major employment projects for the Tax Administration and that was not an underlying objective of these plans. If the interest rate on savings increases and this leads to a higher tax rate or if the shares fall and this leads to a lower tax rate, people will say: that is real, because I actually have more or less return. I see Mr Buma thinking a little bit about the implementation. If you first have one level for everything and then go to three truffles, that indeed leads to a little more execution problems, but there are still considerably less than when you would go to the real return, which we would like most. The Minister of Finance adds that the standard can be automated; that is what we are going to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u103	This will be dealt with again. Fortunately, my group has Mr Omtzigt, and the cabinet does not.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u104	Yes, I'm glad I'm having this discussion with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u105	In order to be able to conduct the debate properly and because we are still very hesitant about this system, I ask the Prime Minister whether he is prepared to decouple this proposal from the rest of the tax proposals to the Chamber. That is possible because it will only start in 2017. Then the debate on the 5 billion and the other tax measures will not be entrusted with this system. I just don't know right now if this is gonna go through all the rooms.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u106	I understand that, but I would like to say that first let us have the substantive discussion. We're still early in the year. Let's see if we can convince each other in a substantive discussion. I would like to have a proper discussion of the substance before I answer that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u107	But then at a certain point in time the substantive discussion took place...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u108	And I convinced you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u109	That's possibility one. Possibility two is that that didn't happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u110	Yeah, you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u111	Then it's the least the cabinet can do, isn't it? I don't even understand why it couldn't be disconnected. Again, it makes the discussion easier because it is a completely different discussion than that of the 5 billion. It pollutes that discussion. It is two different systems that the CDA wants to be able to assess separately. If not, it will charge the whole package. That's a shame.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u112	I understand that, but I'd really like to take up the challenge of not answering that question right now. Let us first discuss the content and then see how far we can get. That's my suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u113	I agree with that, but I would like to know that it will be split in time if we do not get out of that discussion, otherwise there will be no point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u114	That's a like-dan question. Let's have the discussion first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u115	No, I don't think that's enough; I'm telling you that honestly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u116	The CDA can also table an amendment to split it up. Anything's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u117	Then the cabinet doesn't want it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u118	I'm not saying that. I say: let's start with the content of the discussion and see if we can convince each other, rather than thinking straight away that this is not possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u119	I am going to give Mr Klaver the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u120	The Netherlands is one of the few countries in which it is not possible to introduce a capital gain tax because we seem to be technically unable to achieve it. The Prime Minister is now saying that the price is too high because it requires too many officials. However, that can be the price of justice. You can set up a very expensive system if you think that taxing real returns is the most equitable way to tax assets. Is the Prime Minister prepared to share with the Chamber the views that appear to be behind his arguments before we deal with the Tax Plan? Then the Chamber itself can assess whether it is prepared to pay the price of a real capital gain tax based on real return, even if that means that more people have to work at the Tax Office.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u121	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u122	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u123	Then I come to the question of collective agreements. As is well known, the cabinet has concluded a wage agreement with three trade unions. Among other things, a higher net wage will be used. The cabinet has earmarked some 1.3 billion for the new collective agreements. I also think that this is very real after four years of zero. Because there is a lot about media coverage, it might be good to say something about how this develops in practice. If we look at developments in wages and prices over the past few decades in terms of pension building, then we can see that the difference is minimal. I also say to all critics that it is impossible to look 50 years ahead, as is done here and there. The calculation takes into account a full annual wage index. So that's the calculation that says we'd lose a huge percentage of retirement. This is simply very unlikely with the current coverage rate of ABP for the coming years. Similarly, these calculations do not take into account the fact that more than 5% of the additional salary is directly included in the pension structure by means of the 42-year average wage scheme. Finally, for 42 years, the lower level of pension provision represents more than 5% of the additional salary. In other words, we believe that this is a decent and real wage agreement. It has also led to initial provisional agreements. It is true that the FNV is not at the table right now. I regret that. We also want to talk to the Federation of Dutch Trade Unions again. Let us not forget that thanks to the good attitude of and good relations between employers and employees, the FNV played an important role in this process. The FNV and the cabinet are working together in a European context to prevent bogus constructions with foreign workers. The aim is to prevent circumvention of national rules on the protection of workers. That's decent work. I referred to this as the Asscher agenda, but of course it is a cabinet agenda and a priority for the Dutch Presidency of the EU. In all regions there are agreements on the regional work company in which employers, unions and UWV make agreements on the mediation and placement of people. Then the Economic and Social The other day, I read in the media pleading to cancel the Economic and Social Council. I would be very opposed to that. I believe that the ESC has an important role to play in the Dutch consultation model. The ESC has also made an important contribution to the pension dialogue. We attach great importance to cooperation and support in the further process. Finally, the FNV is also of interest in this respect and the AWVN points out that more and more collective agreements are being reached on the modernisation of old age schemes. Senior schemes are transformed into generic policies aimed at sustainable employability. I also endorse this development. I am not talking about the social partners' contribution to the various labour market plans. But the FNV is not at the table right now. I sincerely hope that this will change and that the FNV will participate again. I realize that the interim measures that are in place today and which have perhaps already been decided... I now hear that the verdict comes October 1st. I hope that the relationship with the FNV will return to normal once this is all over. We need the FNV.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u124	I don't want to talk about the breakup between the Labour Party and the FNV. They'll have to take care of this themselves, but that breakup is a fact. I shall come back to the collective agreement story and, in particular, to the police collective agreement. Yesterday, 8,000 police officers were walking around here. They have been arguing with the cabinet for months about a decent collective agreement and what do they get: extra work, just extra work. Yesterday, a majority of the European Parliament, at least, seemed to have called on the cabinet to reach a collective agreement in the first term. If the Prime Minister does not go any further than explaining why he does not want to open the bid, which is largely a cigar from his own box, there will be no solution to this collective agreement. How does the Prime Minister intend to solve this if he puts the heels in the sand every time and says to the police: you will get more work, but not a decent collective agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u125	That is not what we are doing. There is, of course, talk to the unions, but it is true that the talks are difficult at the moment. The wage agreement is on the table. In addition, there are a number of more police-specific issues such as training hours and weekends. We therefore believe that it should be possible to reach a collective agreement. Mr Samsom asked yesterday how we will pull this off. I get that question. I admit that the Minister for Security and Justice will send a letter to the Chamber after the interim ruling explaining how he sees the follow-up to the collective agreement. This can't be done until after that statement, but if it could be done sooner, that would be nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u126	In order to reach an agreement and a collective agreement, and then a broad-based agreement and collective agreement which the whole public sector now deserves, the cabinet must take the pieces out of the sand. It must then look beyond the wage agreement it has itself drawn up. It must therefore want to break the story of the cigar from its own box, that is to say, the pension story. Is the Prime Minister prepared to break that open, with an open vision of the entire government collective agreement and to review pensions in order to achieve a decent collective agreement, in the public sector, but certainly for police officers?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u127	The fact is that a wage agreement has been concluded with relevant trade unions. In the meantime, this has led to the necessary follow-up actions at the ABP. Furthermore, the underlying legislation is in preparation. The fact is also that the FNV is litigating against this. That's also relevant, because that's a big union. In some sectors this is better than in others, but in the police it simply blocks the further conclusion of a collective agreement. That's tricky. Mr Samsom's question yesterday was: how do you see the sequel? My answer to that question is that we first...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u128	Mr President, I would like an answer to my question, not Samsom's. The Minister should give that answer to Mr Samsom.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u129	The Prime Minister chooses his own words and tries to answer your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u130	He answered Samsom's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u131	You will then have the floor again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u132	By braiding the answer to Samsom's question in my response to Mr Roemer's question, I thought I'd hit two birds with one stone, but now I've lost them both. No, Mr. Samsom hasn't, Mr. Roemer has. The cabinet must now consider how the trial, the interim proceedings, is developing. Soon a verdict will be given. There will be a letter immediately afterwards. I can't say anything about that right now. I would like to add one thing. Parliament must be careful to discuss collective agreements openly here. I don't think that's wise. We must also recognise that three power stations have concluded such a wage agreement. It has support in the grassroots community. That's also relevant. Let us all take this into account for a moment and not try to take each other's measure here. I think we all want a decent police cao. We are all very impressed too, and I know this from this Chamber as well as from the work of the police. The police are an organization that does vital work for the Netherlands. Mr Roemer does not agree with it, I see...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u133	Pfff!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u134	...but I do. The police are doing vital work for Dutch society that is really very relevant. That is why we need a good collective agreement, but there is a good wage agreement. Once again, as soon as it is possible, but at the latest after the judgment of the judge in the interim proceedings, a letter from the Minister for Security and Justice will show how we see the follow-up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u135	Not words, but deeds. That is what we need, and not a little fine words here and nothing to do with it. That's no good to cops. If we have a wage agreement that is not supported by the largest union, there is actually no wage agreement. At the moment when you really want to make a decent collective agreement, including for the police, you will have to let go of that wage agreement and continue with open sight. Politics has been involved for years, but the cabinet has kept them on the zero line for years. Now we need a decent collective agreement for a group which has been left behind for years and which is right to protest against a cigar from its own box. A majority in parliament wants a decent collective agreement. In my view, this is only possible if that wage agreement is broken. I'll give the cabinet room for that. Go for it, because that's the only way to finally give the policemen what they deserve. I hope the Prime Minister says he's gonna take a look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u136	That wage agreement is there. I'm glad there is. Three trade unions have gone out of their way for that. I note at the same time that we would like to have the FNV back on board, but the wage agreement is the wage agreement. What we now need to achieve is to restore relations in peace. We do that one step at a time. We must now wait for the judge's ruling in the interim proceedings. At the latest immediately thereafter comes the letter mentioned. Let us really avoid negotiating a collective agreement here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u137	I must say that my patience has been put to the test for a long time. It'll only take a minute, and it'll only take a minute. We have 62,500 policemen and women in the Netherlands. What do they see when they face the cabinet plans that we have received this week? They see first of all that more work is being requested from them. The police are now also involved, for example, in the registration of refugees and in assisting the military police. They see that 6 million overtime has been removed from the budget in order to get things in order. They see that the training budget has been halved. They see that 230 million has been taken out of the reserves of the National Police to fill the gaps a little bit. However, there is still no collective agreement. I think I heard Mr Samsom very clearly yesterday and I support him in that. There must be a clear signal from the cabinet today towards these police officers that there is a willingness to reach a collective agreement. It is really not acceptable to move things back to October.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u138	I find two things unwise. Firstly, there is a wage agreement. That is what other trade unions have put their necks in. However, we do not need to convince each other that it is important that the relationship with the FNV should return to normal. That's not gonna happen just like that if there's another verdict pending from the judge in the interim proceedings. I'm asking you to understand that. Secondly, we must ensure that we discuss a collective agreement publicly here on the employers' side. I'm trying to keep up the good practice of not doing this. That is not appropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u139	In fact, we are not going to negotiate a collective agreement here. However, as a representative of the people, as a Member of Parliament, I am very concerned about the relationship between the cabinet and our policemen on the street, who are 62,500 men and women. That situation has been pretty bad for months now, let me just use the word "fucked up." It's not just a problem between the FNV and the cabinet. It's much and much deeper. There is also enormous frustration about developments in the National Police. So now there is also the frustration about the way in which the budget is supposedly put in order by removing just over 6 million hours of overtime and thinking that the problem has been solved. 6 million overtime: that's the police unit in Amsterdam! That's unbelievable. There is therefore a need to re-establish confidence. There's one thing that can help. I know the unions are willing to talk to the cabinet. That message has become clear to me from the conversations I have had with them. Do not turn the same circles anymore, but just state that you are willing to follow up and make appointments. Just do that. Don't wait for the judge, but sit around the table tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u140	Mr Slob cannot deny that three other trade unions have concluded a wage agreement with the government. That's the tricky dilemma here. This wage agreement is based on a very substantial wage increase from 1 January. Against this background, negotiations and implementation agreements have been concluded for the Rijk, Defence and the judiciary sectors. It's not quite finished yet, but they're there. That's one. However, we do not have to convince each other that we like to have the FNV back on board. That is an important player in the Dutch polder. My assessment is that this is not possible until a ruling has been given in the interim proceedings. I am not talking about the timing of the interim proceedings, but I have just heard from my colleague, Mr Dijsselbloem, that the media seem to have reported that on 1 October there will be a ruling in the interim proceedings that took place today. I'll tell the Chamber that as soon as that verdict comes, she'll receive a letter about our follow-up to the police cao. If we can do it sooner, we'll do it sooner. That is the answer to Mr Samsom's question. I also believe, as I said earlier, that we must ensure that we discuss collective agreements very openly here on the employers' side.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u141	The Prime Minister, and with him the cabinet, really underestimates what's going on here. Steps can be taken now. I ask him not to hide behind the legal procedure now under way. Just open your mind to that conversation and try to get out as soon as possible. There's a chance. Get him!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u142	Of course, we'll have an open mind. Mr Slob does not have to be concerned about that. However, my assessment is that it is very complicated to talk to the FNV now as long as that ruling on that agreement is not there yet. If we can do it, we won't leave it behind. That's why I just said we'll send that letter at the latest after the judge's ruling. If it is possible earlier, because we have managed to get in touch with the FNV before, we will do it sooner. At the moment, however, I am equally gloomy about this. Maybe it'll work.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u143	On a very small scale, I have had to deal with this in the past. That's why I want to give a warning to the Prime Minister. The proposals now before us will undermine pensions in the future. You shouldn't do that. I remember they used to call that in the VVD: pottering.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u144	Mr Krol is, of course, competent in this matter. I have just outlined how I believe the situation is going to work and that this is not the case. I have contested the calculations on the decline in pension structure on substantive grounds. Perhaps I could refer to that part of the stenography report in response to Mr Krol.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u145	I also note with regret that the removal between the FNV and the employers, represented in this case by the cabinet, is increasing. That is an undesirable situation, for the polder, for the Netherlands and for the future. We all know the great contribution that the social agreement has made to stability and recovery from the crisis. I, too, have just heard that the judgment in the interim proceedings is only on 1 October. Frankly, these are two crucial weeks in which removal can only increase. The risk is too great for me. I feel a bit like a mediator here now, but may I ask the cabinet to talk to the FNV as soon as possible, perhaps already during this discussion, and ask if it is possible to come forward with further steps already? If the FNV says "we can't, we want to wait for that statement," then I too am powerless. But I just suspect that all the parties are now a little fed up with all the fighting between themselves and that they want to take the heels out of the sand. I encourage the Cabinet to do so. I guess we could come up with next steps sooner. I would therefore ask the Prime Minister to find out as soon as possible whether there are possibilities for this or whether we are actually in a situation where we have to wait until 1 October for a court ruling. That will never improve the atmosphere between us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u146	I told you, we're always trying to restore normal relations. I myself have regular contact with the chairman of the Federation, and others. If it works, we'll continue the conversations, also pending the judge's ruling. That's why I said that letter will come out as soon as that verdict arrives. But especially since it takes two weeks to reach that verdict, I say: if we can do it sooner than before. That is what has been promised.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u147	I have one supplementary question on this. In my view, this willingness is there if it is clear that the cabinet does not come up with any more of the same and that there really is room for a follow-up step. Then there's room to speak. That is clear to me from all the conversations I have had. If you indicate that we do not repeat the album of the last few weeks but there is room for a follow-up step, I think you might even be at the table within an hour.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u148	But now we're really negotiating in the Chamber. Mr Slob is always very closely guarded by good relations. I would really like him to reconsider this part of the short-term report, because I cannot imagine that it meets his own high standards. Let us not enter into negotiations with the police unions here. That's really unwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u149	We are not negotiating here, but, as Mr Samsom does, we are trying to get the parties to sit down. We've been at an impasse for weeks, and it needs to be broken once. That's what you're up to. If you don't, of course that's your choice, but I think you have opportunities.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u150	I'm not saying we don't talk. We're trying to talk, but I'm explaining the complexity of what's there and the importance that's there. The complex thing is that three trade unions have stuck their necks out and concluded a wage agreement. That is what they have defended in their constituency and it has been accepted. This now leads to concept cao's for a number of national sectors. This has not yet been achieved in the police and in a number of other sectors. We would like to have the FNV back on board both in the draft agreements and certainly in the agreements that are not yet in place. But there's the dilemma in that. The key now lies with the judge's ruling. Unfortunately, it's still two weeks away. I said to Mr Samsom: if we manage to get in touch with the FNV earlier, we will do so and the Chamber will definitely get our letter sooner. Mr. Chairman. With regard to the economic and purchasing power block, I only have a brief response to the various counter-budgets, unless I see Mr Wilders looking angry, but I see that this is not the case with other issues on the table. I shall begin with the counter-budget of the Christian Union. I will not go through it in detail, because we have already made extensive analyses of it. At the core, there is another choice in that budget compared to that of the cabinet. This has to do with the discussion we have just had about the childcare allowance, the IACK and more money towards the child-related budget. Of course, that also has certain effects. I think that discussion will continue in the General Financial Reviews. In essence, the D66 counter-budget comes down to this: more jobs, but as D66 we accept that the purchasing power for pensioners and people with benefits is lower. That's a choice. That's a different choice than the one the cabinet makes. I can also imagine that the discussion on this subject with the D66-focus finances will continue in the General Financial Reviews. Apart from all kinds of other measures proposed by D66, I believe that the main difference lies in this, apart from the greening package.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u151	So?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u152	So? Well, so there's also a greening package.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u153	Look, I'm sorry about that. Now a party does its homework and comes up with an attractive plan from which more than twice as many jobs are created and where higher pensions may be slightly worse off but not in line with the fear that the Prime Minister poses: 75,000 jobs compared to the 35 000 of the cabinet and 1.5 billion greening in a responsible way that goes back to purchasing power by lowering income tax. So I'd say the PM's commercial could have been a little bigger. My question now is what the cabinet will do with these proposals. I heard the Minister of Finance react interested in it for the last 48 hours.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u154	I think this is really a conversation that we need to continue with the General Financial Reviews, which will, of course, also look from the cabinet at the support base in the First Chamber. Yesterday, I heard the representative of the CDA, Mr Buma, say that we should also really involve ourselves in this debate. For his support for the burden relief package, he considers it very important that the employment effects remain intact and that in the field of greening he makes a number of comments about the expected employment effects as such. So that is a discussion that should continue with these General Financial Reviews. I did not intend to use this to serve the D66 budget; I fully agree with Mr Pechtold that there is a very decent proposal. From my own political point of view, I might find something of it here and there, but I understand very well from a D66 perspective why this proposal lies here and what effects it aims to have. I would add that it has different effects in terms of purchasing power from what the cabinet is aiming at. On one point, I would like to discuss the intensification of LIV, the KOT and the income-dependent combination discount. I said earlier in response to comments by Mr Slob and Mr Van der Staaij that you cannot play these buttons endlessly either. So we have to be careful that the CPB model doesn't go crazy. Anyway, I do see what D66 is all about. I agree with Mr Pechtold's summary. In doing so, he does even more justice to the counter-budget than I did, for which I apologize. And let's pick it up from the General Financial Reviews. In the end, we will have to seek the support of sufficient parties in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u155	But I do hope that there will be a Prime Minister here and not a speaker. D66 shows evidence of effects, plus and minus, of other choices that are not radical, and I know that otherwise I will be sent away again, looking at the government policy and the negotiations we have tried to conduct earlier. The impact is more on the issue of jobs; I also announced this morning that this is my theme for today and for this budget. Let me then ask the Prime Minister to mention one measure from the D66 proposals, which he says he would like to look further into in the General Financial Reviews with D66 because he has the idea that it might also lead to an even more interesting proposal than the cabinet itself intended.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u156	That's actually what I said before. What interests me, of course, is the employment effects of the D66 proposals, but at the same time I would point out that we have two dilemmas. The one dilemma is how to ensure broad support in the Chamber, which will have to be there. If I were to embrace these plans from the coalition, we would end up with too few seats. In addition, I would like to comment on a number of employment effects that arise directly from greening. I think you should also have a serious debate about it if you are doing it so intensely, including the introduction of a Maut for trucks, which is not possible in 2016 for which it is now included, because that takes a little more time. In the Netherlands as a final country, where you don't drive through but what really is the country where the cars start or come back, you really need to see what that gets you. The abolition of the coal tax is, of course, contrary to the agreements contained in the energy agreement. So there are a number of real comments here. I can't just give Mr. Pechtold a plume. I can only say that what appeals to me is his ambition to increase employment effects. That's what I think of our joint quest. I have real concerns, in terms of substance and substance, about the fact that the greening proposals go far beyond what is needed for a majority in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u157	I know the benefits and the disadvantages and I stand for them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u158	That is our view from the coalition.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u159	All I'm asking is the Prime Minister. We talked before the summer, and the coalition didn't want to make any choices. That led me to have no confidence in it. Now I see that Mr Buma is interesting, that Mr Pechtold is interesting, that Mr Slob is interesting, that Mr Krol has already been at the Tower but found it too little. I just want to hear here openly and transparently: do you have any ideas of us being taken over, yes or no, and what should I take into account? I might ask you to mention one where I can at least get the cabinet by my side, provided others agree? At least I have the idea if it makes any sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u160	I find the proposals made by D66 in the field of intensification which have positive employment effects very attractive. I do not know whether the far-reaching greening effects of the coalition are going to cause us any concern about these employment effects. We have to be careful not to fool around with the CPB model, like I said. When the talks in the Guldenzaal broke off at the Ministry of Finance, there were also different orientations on the table that I thought would come out, but then the dimensioning of greening would be considerably less than in this one, from the cabinet's point of view.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u161	One last try. Now let's say that the SGP and D66 then you have two extremes saying together: let's look at the local tax area. Well, then you've got a spectrum. Are we going to talk to the cabinet about that, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u162	We need majorities. The local tax area was also in the cabinet plan, we know that. In the cabinet plan there was also greening and also the local tax area, if I look at the greening that D66 proposes, then that times five, very violent, that can also have negative effects, and moreover it is contrary to the energy agreement in relation to the coal tax. I always see Mr Pechtold looking happy when I say it's good, but looking disappointed when I say it's less good. That also makes sense, because I am also giving a fair assessment of his budget; I think we should continue the discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u163	On the counter-budget of the Christian Union, which we have also had passed on to the CPB, the Prime Minister says that he would like to talk about it further. For my part, I ask him the question of which parts he wants to talk about and where that conversation will lead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u164	If you keep talking, you'll be willing to talk to each other. I understand from Mr Slob that the Christian Union is interested in how to better position the single-earners. I have already outlined that, of course, this also has an impact on employment. That is not a conversation we have with each other, we have to look for the final majority. I have also heard Mr Buma, who said that only one thing is important to him, are the employment effects. So if we look at majorities here and in the First Chamber, then it does not make much sense for Mr Slob and I to agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u165	If you're gonna talk to each other, there's gonna be room in the Cabinet for adjustments, and I'm gonna taste them in the Prime Minister's words. The point of the single-earners is one part of our counter-budget. We are also talking about chronically ill and disabled people. We're talking about families with a handicapped child. That is in our adaptation of the 5 billion package. In addition, there are the two major global problems of today: the refugee problem and the climate problem. That is also what we are proposing. I understand that there is room for wide-ranging discussion on these issues and to consider whether we can reach conclusions in the General Financial Reviews.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u166	Yeah, there's room for that, but I have to add a "but." That's lame, but fair. I have heard from Mr Buma, and that is also the view of the cabinet that he is willing to accept that there will be adjustments, but that he would like to assess the overall effect on employment. That's what matters to him. We will have to look together to see how we can reach a consensus towards the General Financial Reviews. I think that's fine. In the past we would have done that in a room, but I cannot get Mr Buma into a room like that with a stick, so it will just have to be in public.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u167	Do I understand that Mr Buma has now become a sort of benchmark for the cabinet? When the Prime Minister hears a proposal, he goes to Mr Buma with the question: Mr Buma, what do you think? I only ask him: Mr Buma, do you think we should do something for chronically ill and disabled people?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u168	You can ask Mr Buma in the second term. You can now ask questions to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u169	Madam President, you will also allow the Prime Minister to link his reply to a Member of Parliament sitting in my back. Then I have to come around a little bit, albeit only literally. In fact, I am standing exactly right between Mr Buma and the Prime Minister. Then we can do business.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u170	If we organized that way, you would look just right, but you are also exactly right in relation to the Prime Minister. If you stand with your nose in his direction, you can address a question to him. If Mr Buma is standing here later, you can ask him a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u171	I ask the Prime Minister: is it now a matter of starting point Buma and then the rest? Or are we just going to look at the content and see if we can find a broad basis for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u172	Starting point is the cabinet plan. That's what we stand for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u173	And then Buma!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u174	This cabinet plan leads to good employment effects etc. We want to keep up the main lines. Furthermore, we are prepared to discuss with everyone in the General Financial Reviews, but we do have a view. And that view lies here. Where plans differ too much from that view, we are not going to agree. Where plans are fitable, we agree. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u175	Surely the Prime Minister has an idea of how he's going to get a majority for his plans to reduce charges? Or does he just say: the opposition has no majority in the First Chamber and must do everything possible to find that majority? The problem is placed with the opposition. I hear D66 and Christian Union talking about their common ground: greening taxes. If I add that up, I can see that this could create a majority in the Upper House. Why isn't that seized? What direction does the Cabinet intend to take? The Prime Minister isn't gonna wait and see exactly how the ball rolls in this Chamber, is he? Which direction does the Prime Minister choose?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u176	I think I just said it. The direction the cabinet wants to take is that of its own plan. We support that; we think that is a good plan. We also want a majority in favour of this plan. Other parties can make proposals that are not at the heart of our plan. Listening to the contributions, I think that is possible. Normally, you'd be looking for a room. But because Mr Buma does not want to go in there, we are going to do it in public.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u177	Fine, we look forward to that. I assume that the Prime Minister will continue to respond to our counter-budgets, both the climate budget and the ordinary counter-budget. It therefore means that everything can be discussed and that all climate and greening measures can be addressed. I just heard the Prime Minister put all kinds of fences in there. A coal tax would not actually be possible, a Maut is impossible, an energy tax is difficult. Then about the entire counter-budget of D66 and half of our counter-budget have been set aside.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u178	There's a lot left for D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u179	Can we talk about greening in the broadest sense? Isn't there a taboo on there?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u180	There is no taboo on greening as such. The main objective of the cabinet proposal is to promote employment and then you have to be careful with greening measures that go against that. Quite apart from the fact that it would cause me to lose my support in the Chamber, I am also losing my support in my own coalition, and I do not want that. So we have no taboos, absolutely no taboos, but we do want that 5 billion to be spent. We are very enthusiastic about our own proposal for this. Mr Buma is in general as well, but others want to change it more. We're gonna see if we can fit all that in, and I think we need to get out of there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u181	I'm getting curious now, because the Prime Minister is planning all kinds of arrangements. I believe that both my colleagues on the other side are also interested in this. We may not have tabled a counter-budget, but he will not blame me as a one-man group. Is there perhaps talk to him about what he writes in the foreword, namely that there should be a fair share? Isn't there any talk of improving purchasing power for the elderly? He himself admitted it was left behind.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u182	I can only repeat what I just said: it is impossible to solve it here now. The cabinet has a view and it is now ahead of us. At the same time, of course, we want the support of such a broad majority in the Chamber that these proposals can also sail through the Upper Chamber. When I look through my eye hairs at the proposals, I think that should work and that we should be able to get out. Maybe not, but I think we can and we should try. Mr. Chairman. We have already discussed a number of aspects of the counter-budget of the Socialist Party. You see in that budget a significant shift in expenditure, namely an increase in expenditure of some 3 billion, a increase of 1.6 billion and a deterioration of the EMU balance. Furthermore, you see a proper redistribution of the income of workers to inactive persons. We just talked about that. That is a choice that is clearly in the budget and in that sense it is also a very recognizable budget. There is, among other things, an 1% increase in assistance. This, combined with a number of other measures, will make the employment effects less positive than those of the cabinet proposals. In addition, you will see some adjustments in the disks. The rate of the fourth disc will be increased. Well, I can say a lot more about it, but I'm just gonna light up a few things right now. I think it's a very recognizable SP budget. I still don't understand the VAT reduction, but the rest is quite recognizable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u183	Bredero once said "it may be". Keeping VAT low was in VVD election programmes for years.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u184	Yes. That's why I'm so surprised.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u185	Diederik Samsom hung in 2012 in all bus booths of the Netherlands with the message that he wanted to keep VAT low. Put them together in a loft and they do the opposite! It's possible. It is nice that you take a few things out of our counter-budget, but it would be as fair as you would have assessed that budget as a whole. You say that there is a measure that would cost jobs, but the opposite is true for the whole of it, because lowering VAT will create a lot of jobs again. If you already partly convert the landlord's tax into an investment obligation, that will generate 20,000 jobs. If you reverse home care cuts, it'll give you 20,000 jobs. Our investments in healthcare, justice and education create thousands of jobs. A little honesty, Prime Minister, please. Just be honest for once.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u186	But it's not free. Mr Roemer does not have to run away from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u187	Nothing's free! That's why we put it through.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u188	Mr. Roemer!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u189	Yes, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u190	The Prime Minister is speaking now. You just had the floor. Now the Prime Minister is speaking.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u191	I think it is perfectly understandable, given his political position, that Mr Roemer is doing so, but I would like to say to him that he must acknowledge that it is at the expense of more taxes and a deteriorating balance. He invests extra in the public sector and that has to be paid for. He does so by increasing the burden and by reducing the funding gap. This is a choice that the cabinet does not make, because we believe that it is important for a further recovery of the economy that the burden should be low and that public finances should also remain sound. However, the government also increases the SP and the cabinet agree on the expenditure on care, social security and education, albeit to a lesser extent than the SP does. If we were to do so to the extent that the SP chooses to do so, we believe that this would be too much at the expense of the tax burden and the balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u192	The balance is minimal, I believe as much as in other counter-budgets. So it's nice that the Prime Minister gets us out, but most of all, he's got to do it himself. If you're talking about a fair distribution, that's right. Certain parties who are now in the cabinet have always called for a fair distribution. We keep our word. We'll have it processed. We've got plans. People who make a lot of money can finally make a serious contribution to maintaining our facilities. Banks that have been saved for billions and are now making substantial profits can now also contribute to society. They've always asked us to do that. Be honest and tell me where it comes from! The Prime Minister may disagree with us. I would rather take that as a compliment, because we do choose fair burdens, fair distribution; we ensure that the people who get nothing under the line get better with us, because if the acid has been the hardest hit there for years, it is time that the sweet gets there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u193	Except it doesn't get any better just because you keep adding the word "fair." It's just a relative understanding of whether you think something's fair. The SP all makes very recognizable choices here that I recognize from the tradition of the party. I don't know why Mr. Roemer is so agitated. I sincerely believe that he is putting down a counter-budget here that I recognise, once again, except for the VAT measure. Then I'll get to GroenLinks. We have also gradually discussed a number of aspects of this. There is a substantial increase in expenditure and an increase in the burden. This in itself has only a marginal effect on the balance itself, because higher expenditure is also subject to higher burdens. In addition, a climate budget has been tabled, for which compliments. Not for all the measures it contains, but for the fact that it is there. There are many measures to further reduce CO emissions, including the increase in the energy tax we have just talked about and, above all, the non-clearance of the coal tax. I may make things complicated again, but that would be contrary to the energy agreement. I also find this budget very recognizable, and I look forward to further discussions on it, including in the General Financial Reviews. Then we can see if GroenLinks can join and join in a broader deal about the 5 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u194	We also look forward to the General Financial Reviews, but we have not tabled the climate budget in order to reduce 5 billion burdens or to get the budget in order. The question is whether we can reduce CO emissions by 25% between 2016 and 2020. In other words, can we comply with the climate statement? Now the question to the Prime Minister is whether he has seen something that he had not thought about before and which he is now thinking about between all the measures that are in it and which are fortunately recognizable GroenLinks: we can start with that in 2016.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u195	It's not all of a sudden new proposals. I don't blame GroenLinks for that. We've all been doing it for so many years that we know about all the buttons. I also see GroenLinks turning on the well-known buttons, which I fully understand from GroenLinks. There aren't all of a sudden new things about.................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u196	Thanks for the explanation, but I asked for something else. I asked if the Prime Minister might have had any other thoughts. The cabinet does not take any additional action in 2016 to reduce CO emissions and to comply with the judge's ruling. My question is whether we have perhaps made another suggestion that the Prime Minister says: at least we are going to take a closer look at this measure; perhaps what we could do with it in 2016. After all, we have to get that climate statement eventually. We need to reduce CO emissions by 25% by 2020. Wasn't there anything between the Prime Minister at least to think about?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u197	I do not want to be faint and it is not at all a reproach to GroenLinks, but there are not very new things in it all of a sudden. There are all things that we know from the GroenLinks circle, which also makes perfect sense. In any case, that party has been very consistent in recent years. There is a first disc with 20% of the gas consumption of 1,500 m. I think that comes directly from the GroenLinks election programme; I have seen this before. Furthermore, I do not mention the abolition of coal tax and the tax deduction for private individuals who invest in the sustainability of their homes. There are all things that are very recognizable, but I want to avoid saying here now that we are going to do so and so. We must try to achieve something with each other in the near future. The cabinet has an opinion on this and has put forward a proposal. For us, the employment effects are leading. We will see if we can insert the different ambitions towards the AMvB.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u198	The Prime Minister is taking up our counter-budget. We have produced two products for a reason, namely a climate budget. We do not count in billions, but in megatons of CO to ensure that we reduce CO emissions. This cabinet has indicated that it will not do anything extra in 2016, which is actually necessary in order to achieve the ambition of reducing CO emissions by 25% by 2020. So my question is not related to the tax system or to 5 billion relief. Is the Prime Minister prepared to look at or further examine measures proposed by us to reduce CO emissions? Or are there measures that he says: I am not sure yet, but I would like to discuss them further? That he appreciates it and that it's all recognizable GroenLinks, I don't need to hear from the Prime Minister. Is he willing to do business, to take steps to combat climate change?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u199	I'll come back to climate change when I talk about Urgenda. I have, of course, taken note of the proposals made by GroenLinks, which lead to an additional 19 megatons reduction by 2020. Of course, they also have all kinds of other effects, but I have seen these proposals. I'll be happy to go into it when I get to Urgenda. I would also like to say something to Mr Van Vliet. This one-man group has tabled a counter-budget. Expenditure is reduced by nearly 3 billion, the burden is reduced and the EMU balance significantly improves. His party is the only one who improves the EMU balance in relation to government policy. I understand he's not with the PVV anymore. He makes a lot of proposals. Sympathetic I found the reduced VAT rate for sports competitions, fairgrounds and amusement parks. Oh, no, that's not nice, because he's trying to get rid of it. I thought he wanted to lower the VAT rate, but he wants to abolish the reduced VAT rate. Excuse me. Anyway, he's got a lot of proposals. He abolishes tax advantages for environmentally friendly investments by companies: the EIA, the MIA and the Vamil. I do not know if that is very sensible, if you want to achieve the climate objectives in such a way that business still benefits a little. In itself, the budget is recognizable from a more right-wing perspective. Thanks and compliments, not for all the content, but for the fact that the budget is there. The next issue is labour market and social security. It has been asked why the limit for the reduction in contributions for the recruitment of older unemployed has been increased from 50 to 56. This was done in the framework of the 2013 pension agreement. It also fits with the increased employment rate under this age group. It was part of the coverage to reduce the level of pension building as much as was foreseen in the government agreement. Questioned is how we deal with older unemployed people. Every unemployed person, according to the cabinet, is one too many. That certainly applies to the elderly. Everything the cabinet does is aimed at restoring jobs and more jobs. Once again, fortunately, 100,000 jobs have been added in the last five quarters. We are back at the level of working hours prior to the crisis. The policy to increase the AOW age is good for both structural employment and the sustainability of public finances. That is why we do not think it would be appropriate to reduce the retirement age, even if it is a one-off one, as Mr Krol suggested. This is bad for the employment rate and it costs a lot of money.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u200	I do not have a very clear idea as to why it would be wise to increase this from 50 to 56 among the older unemployed, especially when it is very necessary there. And I had also asked about the project group to monitor progress on this issue, which was agreed in the Policy Agenda 2020.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u201	We have tried to find the project group. It seems to refer to an agreement between partners in the 2010 Labour Foundation. That's where the search stopped. We can't find anything else about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u202	I'm so afraid the Prime Minister can stop looking. I'm so afraid it was promised, but it didn't happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u203	The agreement we can find is one of the social partners from 2010. They're social partners. We couldn't find anything else at Social Affairs, and we couldn't find anything at AZ.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u204	I would like to see if there is anything we can do about the elderly who are looking for a job. I think that is a vulnerable group in the labour market. D66 has been one of the parties that supported the sector plans until the last time, as one of the few. I'm not going as far as other people said, namely, money is looking for plans. I don't see it that way, but now that the crisis is almost over, there's still about 150 million left. In May, when the last tranche was deployed, there was only one application. I'd like to see if the cabinet is willing to use that remaining part to help the 50-, 55-pluser a little easier to get a job. We could take that further with regard to the social affairs budget, but I would at least like to get a little green light for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u205	First, I have to make a point. Mr Buma also looked at these job plans yesterday. That's one-time money. Mr Buma had that in mind yesterday as a cover for security and justice problems. It's hard with one-time money. With Mr Pechtold it might be possible with one-off money, but it is not the case that the amounts mentioned are correct. There is currently a third instalment of 32 plans. They have been submitted and are now being assessed. We'll know what's left in November. Then the Minister for Social Affairs will report to the House of Representatives. It is therefore a matter of occasional means. That is perhaps the time to include Mr Pechtold's suggestion and see what we can do specifically for the elderly. That's actually in the tradition of those plans. But we have a real view of that expendable space in November.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u206	That's right, it's a one-time thing. November sounds a little far. I would like to see whether we can get an overview of what plans have now been requested, after a proper assessment of the third tranche. If there is any money left, I would at least like the government to give me the green light to stimulate something like the action plan 50-plus with that money. Once again, we supported that, but that money was a little behind the crisis. I believe that this should be spent as quickly as possible on the employment goal, especially for the vulnerable 50-plussers who are unemployed. Can we get that overview a little faster and get a closer look at space in particular? Can we, more or less, get a commitment that this target group will be considered as a priority?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u207	Let's do it like this. We cannot judge those 32 plans overnight, but perhaps we can get a bit together. It has to be done. At the same time, what is left of space becomes visible. We have understood very well the ambition of D66. This in itself also fits in with the approach of the sectoral plans, which aim to preserve and restore employment. So let's see how far we get over the next few weeks, but I am not going to say that we know exactly how much money is left by November, because the assessment of these 32 plans really needs a little time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u208	One of the obstacles in the labour market is the second year of pay-as-you-go payments, particularly for small entrepreneurs. There is now a broad picture that has to be changed, that can no longer be done in the second year, but the cabinet still gives the impression that it is thinking. Is the Prime Minister prepared to say that there is a proposal from the Cabinet for the budgetary treatment of Social Affairs on how to deal with this further?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u209	The fact is that it also has hooks and eyes if you shorten the period of pay-through in case of illness. Of course, it is not the case that the cost of the second year of illness is gone. They're staying. In addition, of course, there are incentives in the current system that work. So you have to look at it in its entirety. Also, you have to see who's gonna take the fall for it. It also affects the insurance market. What we are looking at now is whether we can find solutions to reduce the bottlenecks experienced by smaller employers in a wage transfer obligation in a way that is responsible and acceptable. Motions have been tabled by VVD and Labour Party on reintegration second track. Employers should now first try to provide adapted work in their own company in the event of illness and then that is the second track outside. This is particularly difficult for small SMEs. Let's see if we can do that more effectively. We're working on all that stuff. I understand that Mr Buma is asking for an update to be sent quickly. That's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u210	But then a proposal, I said. It cannot be the case that the Minister for Social Affairs does not even come up with a solution to this problem during this whole cabinet period. The fact that it's difficult isn't the only problem. We've had more than that today. But a cabinet is there to solve difficult problems and not to transfer them to another cabinet. I would therefore ask you to come up with solutions for the budgetary treatment of Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u211	Or at least an analysis. I have just outlined that the abolition of the wage transfer obligation in the second year also has a number of practical consequences which we also have to look at. I think it is good to carry out at least the low-hanging fruit of that VVD/PvdA motion on the second track. We can do that soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u212	And do we finally get that inter-departmental policy research on SZW's budget before we discuss it? We've been waiting a long time for that. Everyone in this room thought this would come with Prince's Day, but it didn't come again. So I would also like that for the budgetary treatment of Social Affairs with the opinion of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u213	Affirmative!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u214	I just heard the Prime Minister say that our proposal for this one-off reduction in the AOW age would be too expensive. I would be very grateful if the Prime Minister could pass that on, because it also has a lot of advantages. As long as unemployment remains so high, isn't every job that comes with it very much taken? Maybe the Prime Minister not only wants to say that it's too expensive but that it's too expensive to pass it on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u215	Then I'll come back to an answer I gave earlier today. To make a pass-through, we need to see the beginning of a lead. Otherwise we will become more of a scientific agency; we are a government. I really don't see any leads here. I would therefore ask Mr Krol to see if he can find another place for such a transfer. If we really do not find a basis in this in any way, I find that too much occupational therapy for the coalition.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u216	Maybe that's an agenda item for that meeting we're about to plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u217	The point was that there will not be one because Mr Buma does not want it. We're all gonna do it in public. Now Mr. Buma is waking up again. It was a question of whether a meeting was planned around the Tax Plan, I say to Mr Buma. It's planned, and it's called the General Financial Reviews. Then I come to the fact that yesterday the coalition parties also gave consideration to the labour market and suggested measures in the area of that labour market. Those are part of the proposals that I do appreciate were placed a little further away and maybe even over 2017. What I liked was that, although the comments in the media outlined the picture that parties were very far apart, I also heard a lot of things that converged. It is true, of course, that these two parties have very different views on a lot of things. Let me look at the objectives I have heard. We must ensure that sectors, businesses and people adapt to the labour market of the future. That is good for everyone. We need to ensure that people move from work to work more often and can switch from sector to sector. That's what I heard in both speeches. This leads to less uncertainty and less loss of skills. It was also argued that it is important for education to address this and for the labour market to respond to it. The job for life is becoming less and less common. That is a fact. Moreover, I believe that the sectoral plans can still contribute to this. Let's look at what the cabinet has done and is going to do. Reforms in the field of the WW, for example. People with a distance from the labour market offer a real opportunity for that labour market. To prevent job security from taking the form of a false construction; something we agree on. We are also taking action against this by ensuring, at the same time, that contracts of employment become cheaper, because that is also important. Think of the reduction in the burden on labour that we have just talked about in detail. Think of the low income advantage, the LIV, which Mr Samsom would have called the LAV, the allowance of €2,000 to employ someone on low income. These are all reforms that the government is going to implement with the social partners in the coming period. That must also be done carefully. We're not here yet. EUR 300 million will be invested in raising the childcare allowance. In addition, working parents are left with more money thanks to the IACK. We have also talked about this today. Then there is the bill in the First Chamber, which is currently under discussion, on working after the AOW age. This also contributes to these longer-term objectives promoted by both parties. I would like to draw your attention to the working agenda for the future of the pension system on which this cabinet intends to make far-reaching proposals. I would also like to draw attention to the opinion which will soon be published on the TAW, on the whole system of employee insurance and on the importance of employee insurance also supporting the middle groups. That is of great importance. These are all things that I note, when I listen to Mr Zijlstra and Mr Samson's speeches, that there are divergent elements in them that are a little further forward in the future, but I also heard a lot of convergence, which is also in line with the agenda of this cabinet and the way in which we want to achieve a number of objectives in the labour market. A few more things on this point, starting with the quota. The CDA is clearly not a big fan of that. It doesn't really want a quota for disabled people. Anyway, we've made agreements on creating jobs for this target group. The first measurement of Social Affairs in this area is optimistic. It is also a stick behind the door and is part of the agreements with employers and employees. Mr Buma had a thought about the use of wage subsidies instead of wage subsidies. On this point, as we know, agreements have been made in the social agreement, which is also enshrined in legislation. There is also a Van Weyenberg/Heerma motion. As a result, research is being carried out into the effectiveness of labour cost subsidies and wage dispensation. We will certainly continue this debate. The necessary debate has already taken place in the area of chain determination. It is now being considered whether the tightening of the chain determination can be evaluated rapidly. There have been commitments on this. We have just talked about the payment of wages in the event of illness, and we have just agreed on the IBO-zzp that the response will come as soon as possible, at least well before dealing with the Social Affairs budget. I think I have answered all the questions relating to the labour market.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u218	Not all proposals went over after 2017. There's still a lot of work to be done. I make two points, of which I am not quite sure whether the Prime Minister has made a commitment on this, because he went through it quickly. I have asked whether the cabinet - I think this concerns the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment - can investigate the advantages that the so-called Swedish model can offer us, namely the possibilities to combine leave with work even better. Work is important, but there are sometimes even more important things. Another question is whether the possibilities created in the social agreement for "work to work" structures can get a little more hands and feet. This question is also in the area of the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u219	The latter will be taken into account in the response to the TAW opinion. On the first question, I can answer that we are already doing so. In the run-up to the meeting on labour and care to be held in 2016, the cabinet asked the ESC for advice on working and living in the future. Then it is also about the combination of work and care. That investigation has been initiated. We expect the ESC opinion at the end of 2015. This will then be offered to the Lower House in the first quarter of 2016, after that meeting on labour and care, with a cabinet response. It will also address the possibilities of sharing leave, saving leave, insuring leave and so on. In short, all elements of the Swedish model.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u220	That's good, because there have been opinions recently that the cabinet chews on a little longer than average. This will go smoothly to the Chamber in the first quarter of 2016.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u221	We're gonna do our best.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u222	We've had the whole block by now. At the end of it, I was wondering where the Prime Minister's self-reflection was with regard to his job engine. He's been Prime Minister for five years now. In the meantime, unemployment has risen by hundreds of thousands. He is now having a nice talk about reducing labour costs, which the whole Chamber is for, I think. That would create jobs. But when we look at 2016 we see that unemployment is barely falling. He makes beautiful decoration with constantly putting "work, work, work" first. He's been Prime Minister for five years now, of which three years from this cabinet, but we're not making any progress. How does he even point that out?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u223	In the last five quarters, 100,000 jobs have been created. At the same time, you can see that this means that more people, who were more reluctant to do so, are reporting to the labour market. We've seen that before today. As a result, unemployment is falling net by less than 100,000. Moreover, the peak of unemployment has fallen from 700,000 to 600,000. Of course, that's not the 100,000 out of the last five quarters. It's even further down. The cabinet is taking a whole series of measures to further stimulate the decline in unemployment. We are looking in particular at long-term unemployment. We know that long-term unemployment always recovers slower than other unemployment. That always goes a little slower than the recovery of the economy. That's what we expect this time. This has always been the case in previous crises. We believe that long-term unemployment is too high, even though it is one of the lowest in Europe, as well as our general unemployment and youth unemployment are among the lowest in Europe. However, our ambitions go beyond the lowest in Europe. We simply want unemployment to fall in absolute terms. So what do we do? I refer to the new WW that has been arranged that you will not be cut off immediately if you earn extra money. I would like to refer to the measure I have just discussed with Mr Krol about subsidies for companies employing someone over 56 who comes out of a benefit. These are all measures to give extra emphasis to the fight against unemployment among the elderly and long-term unemployment. The most important will be the recovery of employment as a result of the recovery of the economy. With an economic growth of 2.4% if I may believe the Rabo, we are still on course.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u224	As I have just said, it is still very important to this Prime Minister that he throws forward images that he cannot deliver at all. We just had all that lie from the king. We are now talking about the job engine and measures that would significantly improve employment. However, the number of people looking for work is barely falling. The number of jobs that have recently been removed in various sectors is dramatic. Sixty-five thousand jobs have been removed in healthcare alone. You can tell the Netherlands with a very long, woolly argument that 'work, work, work' is the theme of the cabinet, but the whole of the Netherlands sees that 'unemployment, unemployment, unemployment' is the effect of that policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u225	Again, we see that the economy currently has as many working hours as before the crisis. We're back to the level of 2008. We can see that in the last five quarters we have received 100,000 jobs. We see that overall unemployment has fallen from 700,000 to 600,000. We are aware that our unemployment is among the lowest in Europe, both youth unemployment and long-term unemployment and general unemployment. Then why is the cabinet dissatisfied and does it say that it is good that the economy is recovering, but that it wants more in the field of the labour market? We say that because we ultimately want to return to the pre-crisis levels. We're not there yet, and we're working really hard on that. Mr Roemer is now making a bit of a caricature of the figures. That is allowed to him, because in the debate we can enlarge things, but I would like to stick to the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u226	If you don't have any more arguments, you just say that the other one makes a caricature of something. The Prime Minister can do that. However, when he started the beautiful profession of Prime Minister, he convinced the Netherlands that he and the VVD would come up with a job machine. I note that this job machine has only been in decline for the past five years.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u227	We don't live on an island. We have had one of the biggest crises in the world. It broke out in 2008/2009 and was perhaps the biggest economic crisis after the war. This crisis has had a huge impact on public finances, but above all on employment. It's terrible when people lose their jobs. A cabinet in an open economy that is focused on exports, such as the Netherlands, must then take measures to ensure that business can recover and that entrepreneurship pays off again. We all did. We have put public finances in order and we have made our important long-term provisions sustainable. Let me give you an example: the sustainability deficit. We can pay our social security and health care in the longer term. When we started this cabinet, we stood at minus 4.5%, now we stand at plus 0.5%. Our pensions, AOW, social security and health care facilities are therefore sustainable. Unemployment is falling. But we want more, we are not satisfied. However, saying that we want more and that we are not satisfied does not mean that much is not happening and that we would not want to achieve any more with additional measures. I'm joining the Ministry of Security and Justice's budget. Maybe it's okay if I take it apart. I will deal with the reorganisation of the police, the prosecutor's office and the justice system. Then I will deal with the various legislative processes and then with the intensifications. This seems wise to me. So I can try to unravel the various contributions that were made yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u228	Mr Pechtold and Mr Roemer, it might be useful if the Prime Minister started answering the questions raised yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u229	I have a point that I would like to raise separately, and that goes from the block of international to the budget of this ministry.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u230	Shall we do this at the end, because perhaps it will be discussed?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u231	I'm sure this won't be the case. I think it is important that this point should perhaps be raised first when we talk about the rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u232	Then who am I to argue with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u233	Mr. Chairman. I am still frustrated by the Prime Minister's extended electoral pronunciation that jihadgoers can die better than they can bring to justice here. That is the question that is being asked. As long as such an observation is made in election time, it is still necessary, but in the end the Prime Minister repeated that statement at a press conference and the Minister of Defence did so in this Chamber. With that, it is no longer a theory, but a policy of the entire government. I had it examined and asked questions about it, but I think it is very important to raise it in these general political considerations, because it concerns our rule of law. Did the D.A. put out an APB on this sergeant? Does the Prime Minister also believe that jihad-goers, and certainly those who desert our army, should be persecuted by the special court we set up in Arnhem for that purpose?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u234	First of all, I'm gonna talk to you about the breakup, because I'm still totally behind that. That is my view. If you're going to fight for this horrible organization that decapitates people, destabilizes an entire region, we see it regularly on television, and Islam abused for its purposes, then you take the risk of being killed there. I think it's better that you die there than you return. That's what I think, that's an idea. The same goes for the sergeant, because he himself took the risk and, of course, that applies to him in the alternative. Is it cabinet policy with that? No. It is not a policy, it is a view. We do not specifically bomb Dutch people in that region, but this is my view. The cabinet does not have to share this view with me, because it is a personal view. It does not have to be a cabinet policy, because that would be our policy. That's not the point. It's about what I think; that's what RTL's ruling was about. This is what I find and I'm keeping this real. No one's gonna get me off this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u235	I think so, because I think it is unworthy of a Prime Minister and I certainly do not think it is possible for the Minister of Defence to repeat this in the Chamber. A prime minister might find something about the weather, he might find something about the food, but he makes policy when it comes to laws. If someone from our army deserts, then the Prime Minister not only finds something, but everything he says about it is also important for his cabinet at that time. That's why I'm asking the Prime Minister if the Cabinet has instructed the Public Prosecutor to track down this sergeant. Has the Cabinet instructed the Public Prosecutor to track down all jihadgoers at all, bring them to court and bring them to justice here, because we, Prime Minister, are living in a rule of law?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u236	All I can report on the sergeant's criminal investigation is that the investigation under the direction of the D.A.'s office is ongoing. Furthermore, there is really nothing else I can say in public. That's really a case of the D.A.'s office, and there's nothing to report. The main point is that, if we know that people are coming forward, the prosecution will investigate it. If it is necessary to proceed to criminal prosecution, it is necessary to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u237	The Prime Minister is as sturdy as he is or so tough, if I may say so, to say what he thinks and repeat it, with all the consequences. If weeks after and weeks after the sergeant is already deserted, then there is nothing new to report.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u238	Then there's nothing to report in public.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u239	I suspect the Prime Minister is in his stomach with this. I would like to know what the state of affairs is now. Is the government policy to bring every deserter to the special court in Arnhem as soon as possible according to the laws we have before it? Is the cabinet trying to bring deserters to justice, yes or no? At least I want that question answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u240	I just answered that question. I also answered the question about the sergeant. I said that, in the interests of the case, I cannot make any further announcements about it in public. Mr Pechtold has asked me further about my opinion, and I have repeated it here. I had that view, I maintain that view, and I will continue to maintain that view. Our people, our safety and our F-16s bombing there are at risk. People who are so retarded to join those creeps, our soldiers who do that, are totally mastaklap. If you do that, you take that risk and then you better die there than return.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u241	I see a certain irritability. That's good for me, because then the Prime Minister is usually in a tight spot.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u242	No, I really don't. I'll find this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u243	I am not asking the Minister what he thinks, I am asking him about the policy of this cabinet. It is a question that can be answered in public: is the policy of this cabinet that deserters are persecuted, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u244	The D.A.'s office, I just said, continues in principle. There's a deserter now. I just reported that the D.A. is prosecuting him and I can't say anything else about the case. Now, in general, I go into the matter of the Dutch going there to fight: it is the line of the public prosecutor that is being prosecuted in principle. That's considered on a case-by-case basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u245	The latter is a surprise, because then Mr Rutte's opinion is "fuck you" and Mr Rutte's doing: judge them and put them in jail in the Netherlands. And that's where the big problem lies with this Prime Minister. This is Mark Rutte, isn't it? He yells "Oh, you better drop dead there and not come back," but in reality he does something completely different, namely just prosecute. He is the prime minister of the rule of law. He doesn't think he should be, because he thinks people should drop dead, but he is. What he has to do to act against those people, he doesn't. The Netherlands is not participating in those F-16s in Syria. He'd be a guy if he took the action and said, "This cabinet, which I stand for, is finally going to participate in Syria." However, the Minister does not do what he says, because he continues these people here and what he should do, namely attacks by military means and our F-16s, he does not.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u246	I have given my opinion. If you decide to fight there and if you are indeed a risk to our soldiers, to our men and women who are bombing there in F-16s, then it is indeed your own risk. Then it's better for you to die there than for you to return. That's what I think, and I'm sticking to that point of view. That is my view. Furthermore, in my response to the Pechtold's question, I spoke about the state's attorney's office.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u247	Then I note that the Prime Minister is pursuing a policy which is contrary to his own view.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u248	That is bullshit, and so does Mr Buma. I'll find this. What the D.A. does in the prosecution of this sergeant, for example, is also exactly his job. But I do think the sergeant took a risk. It's terrible what happened. He's abandoned his own people. He lied to people that he belonged to them, that they formed a team together. Then he deserted and went into a wrong fight. Then it is obvious that he himself took that risk? Then this result is an actual outcome, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u249	In doing so, the Prime Minister simply needs to be more precise. This is not to be followed by the Dutch. The Prime Minister, the Prime Minister, stands there and says that we are prosecuting those people, but he also says: don't be afraid, I, Mark Rutte, really think they shouldn't be prosecuted at all; they better die there, but I'm not doing anything to get it done. That is not true on such a serious matter as this, with the war in Syria, the extravagants we have and the people fighting with it on the wrong side. The Prime Minister is venting some opinions, but he's not doing anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u250	These things really have nothing to do with each other. If you do, as far as I'm concerned, you're taking a risk. Then you put our people in danger there and it's better that things go wrong there than you return. That is my view. In addition, we just have a public prosecutor who rightly prosecutes people who go there. I also said that it was not the government's policy to bomb Dutch people there? We don't. Then it would be policy. If you're gonna do it, it's better if things go wrong over there than you're gonna come back. That is my view.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u251	The rule of law is not something to be casual about, especially when it is discussed in this Chamber. So it doesn't help if the Prime Minister is provoked up to five times to say what he thinks. It doesn't matter. What matters is what this cabinet does. This cabinet respects and promotes the rule of law, even abroad, no matter what happens. I would ask the Prime Minister not to confirm to me once and for all that what he thinks is irrelevant to policy and that policy is no different from maintaining and promoting the rule of law, anywhere in the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u252	I told you, it's not government policy. I repeat that to Mr Samsom. I'm telling you for the sixth time what I think, that if you're so retarded to fight there, it's better that you die there than you return. That is my view.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u253	I fully agree with the Prime Minister that Syrians should die in Syria rather than come back. I do not understand, however, that the Prime Minister simply lets them go into the country if they do want to come back. He'd rather have them killed there than have them come back. If you're consistent, you shouldn't let them, if they don't die, into the Netherlands anymore. If we do and do not arrest them, they will not make the streets in Syria unsafe, but the streets in the Netherlands unsafe. Why does the Prime Minister just let the Syrians who do not die return to the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u254	Well, not "just." They're just gonna prosecute. Measures are being taken. People aren't just brought back into this society. We look very closely at the danger they pose. We'll make sure our safety isn't compromised by it. Our security services, our state's attorney's office, our entire justice system is watching over that. That's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u255	That's not true. Most Syrians who have returned to the Netherlands are free to go around. A handful has been arrested. The rest of us are just out there. What good is a prime minister who says that as a Syrian, it is better to die in Syria if 90% of those who do not die and want to come back are free? They make the streets, stations and shopping malls of the Netherlands unsafe. To the people who do not die there, the Prime Minister must say: you will never come back. We need to let Syrians go and never let them come back.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u256	To prevent them from travelling out, we take passports. If it is necessary because of national security, we can intervene on the issue of nationality. When people return, all our security forces are ready to make sure that the country is protected from these idiots. If the D.A. has reason to prosecute and then proceed to trial, that's what happens. And that's how it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u257	They're just bullshit stories. According to the National Counter-Terrorism Coordinator, almost 80% of Dutch Syrians are Moroccan. I'm not making it up; it's the facts. Those people all have double nationality. The taking of their Dutch passport is therefore without prejudice to the fact that they can simply go to Syria with their Moroccan passport, whatever they do. So they can just go there. They can also just come back to the Netherlands with that passport. What is incredibly double-hearted is that this Prime Minister is acting tough by saying: let them die in Syria. But in the meantime, if they don't die, he won't stop them from coming to the Netherlands. When they come back to the Netherlands, he doesn't pick them up either, but he just lets them walk through the streets of the Netherlands. And he shouldn't. He must protect the Netherlands from the returning jihadists by saying: once you go, you will never come back; you have lost your chance, because if you are going to feed jihad in Syria you will lose your Dutchmanship and welcome to the Netherlands forever.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u258	We protect the country from returning jihad fighters along the lines I just outlined, through the security services and, if possible, through prosecution. We're taking passports to prevent them from travelling out. In special cases, we can also take away nationality. We play the whole organ to make sure this society is safe. I come to the budget of Security and Justice. There was a lot to do about that yesterday. I begin by saying in general terms that this budget is, of course, sound in the sense of the cabinet. Nevertheless, we also recognise that, for example, when it comes to the National Police, the budget must be kept in practice. I'm gonna show you how to do that. I'll start with the reorganisation of the police. The National Police budget shows that the additional costs are covered within the budget of the same National Police. In the debate that Van der Steur held on 10 September following Mr Segers' motion for a resolution of the Christian Union, he promised that a letter would be sent after Princess Day on the financing of the budget for the additional costs of reorganisation within the National Police budget. That's one. Two: the Minister has undertaken to ask the General Court to look specifically at the reorganisation budget. Three: the Minister has promised that an investigation will be carried out into the multiannual size of the budget required in relation to the intended ambitions of the police. That will be ready in the spring of 2016. Then I'll join the state's attorney's office. The following applies, which the Minister also indicated in a letter to the Chamber. The combination of falling inflow, budget expansion and quality improvement gives the Public Prosecutor's Office more opportunities than in 2013 to keep the performance level appropriate without forced redundancies. As of 2015, additional resources have been made available to the Public Prosecutor's Office, including for crime with an international dimension, up to 20 million from 2017, and for counter-terrorism, up to 2.1 million from 2018. Finally, I would like to say the following on one of the major issues raised yesterday: justice. On 31 August, the Judicial Council published a multiannual plan to complete the efficiency task set out in the government agreement. This plan concerns a cut in house location. There is currently 100,000 m empty. This leads to a shift of business packages within the arrondissements. The Judicial Council is still in discussion with local government and has taken additional time for the final decision. Following consultations with the Minister of V and J. The Minister checks on access to justice and the consequences for the cities concerned, in consultation with the Minister for Housing and National Service. Can I say in general terms that the cabinet has taken a good note of the concerns of the Chamber and the debate on the final plan of justice? We will ensure that we involve these concerns as closely as possible. I see that people are ready for interruptions, but perhaps it is wise that I finish the whole block about V and J first. There has also been talk of the legal pathways currently taking place in the First Chamber for the reversal of legal aid, registry rights and own payments by inmates. The Minister of V and J states in his policy agenda that there are risks to the budget of V and J because the First Chamber has not yet agreed to the legislative proposals on the increase of registry fees, the introduction of own payment and the reduction of legal aid. At the same time, it was also discussed here yesterday that it is important to start this conversation with the Chamber in confidence and, if necessary, to explore alternative coverage options in consultation. The cabinet believes that the legislative proposals incorporated in the budget of V and J can be well defended. Of course, it is always open to alternatives, but they must be properly covered. The state of play is that the budget is based on the introduction of legal aid on 1 July next. The Wolfsen Committee has been asked for its opinion. Following receipt of that opinion, the Cabinet will consider how to proceed with the legal aid dossier. So I cannot say anything about that now, because we expect that opinion by 1 December at the latest. We intend to introduce the legislation on registry fees and own contribution on 1 January 2016. Finally, as far as the intensifications are concerned. In order to combat terrorist threats, additional resources have been added to the budget of V and J. Then you talk about 24 million in 2016, rising to 32 million structurally. The Public Prosecutor's Office has been given additional resources to address jihadism and human trafficking of 5 million in 2015, rising to 20 million structurally from 2017. For the purpose of drawing up the Hoekstra Committee's recommendation, 7 million has been released on the V and J budget. In addition, 3 million has been earmarked for tackling undermining crime, particularly in the south of our country. In other words, every budget has risks, including the V and J budgets. With regard to V and J in particular, I listened very carefully yesterday to the debate in this Chamber and, of course, to the interruptions to Mr Zijlstra, there are risks in the aforementioned legislative processes. However, it is important that these legislative proposals should also be made in the Upper House. We can all help with that. The cabinet is convinced that police, prosecutors and courts can get away with this budget, but at the same time security is under pressure today, possibly tomorrow. This requires continuous monitoring of the capacity and potential of all organisations in the justice chain. I am therefore making a commitment here that the cabinet is constantly monitoring the relationship between tasks and budget and, if necessary, taking action.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u259	Thank you for the Prime Minister's introduction, but we have actually heard little news because he has listed what is just in the documents. On the basis of these documents, many concerns have been expressed in Chambers and more than that. The police simply don't have enough resources to carry out what they need to do. The Justice Council today announced that at least 50 million is needed to ensure that it can do its job properly. With all the budgets indicated by the Prime Minister, we will not make it, given all the cuts in previous years. It has been widely observed in the Chamber that the budget of the Court of Justice is not going to make it in the First Chamber. Does the Prime Minister agree with me that this discussion does not belong in the First Chamber but in the Lower House? Does he agree with the Group of the Party of European Socialists that he should now come up with measures, if necessary just before the budget of justice, to ensure that there is a large majority in the Second and First Chamber, so that justice, police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and justice can do their job?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u260	With regard to OM, justice and police, I agree with Mr Roemer that the discussion on this issue should be conducted here. With regard to the legislative proposals that lie in the Upper Chamber, I believe that the discussion should be held in the Upper Chamber. Those proposals passed the House of Representatives. Mr Roemer is concerned and I have also heard others on this issue about the budgets for the police. I note that last week's debate on the National Police promised that a letter will be sent to the Court of Auditors on the financing of the budget to be released within the National Police's budget for the additional costs of reorganisation, that it will look into it and that an investigation will be carried out into the multiannual size of the budget required in relation to the ambitions envisaged. Then when we have the facts on the table, we can see if it is true that there should be money or not. We are currently facing this budget, but as I said earlier, if it is necessary, on the basis of objective facts, for money to be added, then we must be able to look at it. But first we want those facts on the table. With regard to the public prosecutor, I have just outlined what is going on in this area, and with regard to the case law, I have pointed out that it is now important to take the next steps in the housing and relocation of business packages within the districts. So there are actions on all these matters and we are making sure that we map the facts exactly. A budget is always on the move and is never static, as I have said before, but we believe at this point that there is a budget that we can support. In all these areas of concern, the facts are currently being precisely mapped out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u261	This is a repeat of moves, for which I thank you again. Of course, the Prime Minister is taking a huge risk. It was clear yesterday that the Justice budget in this form will not reach a majority in the First Chamber. I can't speak in front of the First Chamber, but I think that's a very good chance. Then we can be better in favour of this, because this Chamberwide, also from the VVD and the PvdA, has been indicated that people are worried. How did Mr Zijlstra say it so beautifully again? It wasn't the best budget, or anything like that. So that's being worn wide. My question to the Prime Minister is therefore specific as to whether he is prepared to come up with additional resources for the Justice budget so that they can discuss it further in substance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u262	Not right now, when I look at the facts. We are now, for the prosecution, for justice and for the police, mapping out exactly the facts. We believe, on the basis of the facts as we know them, that there is a decent budget here, but we want to see exactly what is going on with that. As far as the proposals for legislation in the Upper Chamber are concerned, we are going to do our best to get them through. Others can help with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u263	That's looking away and sticking the head in the sand by the Prime Minister. We shall then refer this to the Chamber by means of a motion in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u264	I am beginning to understand where the problem lies, because what the Prime Minister sees as a solution is part of the problem. The police themselves are cut short to solve their own problems, but the police can't do that anymore. Yesterday's demonstration was not just about wage demands but above all about wage demands, the CDA has a great deal of respect for cops who simply want to be able to do their job. They can't do that this way. This period leaves 3,000 people and at the same time needs to be reorganized. Of the case law, the Prime Minister says that the solution lies in housing simplifications. Yes, that is closing the courts in Assen, Almelo, Alkmaar, Maastricht and go on. That is precisely what the Chamber says that this cannot be done under the rule of law and that agreements have been made about it. If the Prime Minister is the last to say: yes, but the First Chamber must also adopt some of my laws, then perhaps the problem is in those laws. Perhaps the problem is that the First Chamber, or the Second Chamber, but later also the First Chamber, is simply allowing the rule of law to prevail for its magical reasons. Then the Prime Minister can say: "If you all settle that, the money is solved and we don't have to do anything anymore," but that's where the problem lies. The result is that the D.A. cannot do its job, that justice cannot do its job and that the police cannot do their job. This Chamber is responsible for that. It calls on the Prime Minister to come up with more money for the Justice budget to solve these bottlenecks. If that does not happen, then he has a political problem that I wonder if he understands at this time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u265	I would say, let's talk about that first and see if we can convince each other. But let's look at the content of the discussion where the police are concerned. A National Police have been introduced. This leads to less expenditure for a lot of overhead costs. That is also one of the objectives of the introduction of this National Police. We have at the moment I have outlined the three lines to see how this develops in practice. With regard to the case-law, I have outlined that the cabinet is very well aware of the concerns that exist in the Chamber and that the debate is on this subject when the final plan of the case-law is available to the Chamber. With regard to the legislative proposals that lie in the Upper House, wouldn't it be strange to say that we are withdrawing those proposals simply because it might be difficult to lift them through the Upper Chamber? We are in favour of these legislative proposals. We are going to do our best to realize it there. I have also said that, as far as the general situation is concerned, we always look at the relationship between tasks and budgets and that we constantly monitor them, also in the light of developments on the police, on the case law, on the Public Prosecutor's Office and on the legislative proposals in the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u266	The Prime Minister's answers seem a bit like the way he answered questions about the security services in January. That was in the wake of the attack in Paris. Then he said, "The services can handle it." Less than a month later, it was the group chairmen who had to insist that the services be increased. Meanwhile, in his talk about the Millions Note, the Prime Minister says: look how well we have strengthened the security services. I'm sure you'll get the credit later, but do it! Justice services need to be strengthened. If the Cabinet doesn't, the Chamber will force you to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u267	Security is a core task for the government. I am surprised that in these general political discussions, after having had a proper discussion on whether the defence budget is sufficient to carry out the tasks, we are now having the same discussion on the budget for security and justice. What does it say to the Prime Minister that it is going to be like this and that there are questions about it? There are great concerns, not just one or two groups, but quite wide in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u268	This is an important budget. There are risks with each budget. I note that there are widespread concerns in the Chamber about a number of aspects of that budget, such as the police, the prosecutor's office and the judiciary. It is not the case that courts are closed. It looks at how to deal with square meters in these sectors in a sensible way. Anyway, that's a little detail. In the area of each of these matters, there are actions and further arrangements have been made with the Chamber. I call for all these facts to be taken into account. My assessment is that there is a budget here that is decent, with the facts as we know them at the moment. As I said, we will always look at the ambition, figures and facts, and come to adjustments when necessary. That is always the responsibility of the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u269	Then let's get the police budget out. It is, of course, already significant that the Chamber indicates to the Cabinet that it wants to urge the Court of Auditors to turn the budget inside out and look at everything that is happening, because it has serious doubts as to whether everything is going well. When I look at the budget itself as it has been presented to us, I see that the attempt is being made to put the budget in order by removing those six million leave hours. Training budgets are halved. There is a hold in the reserves of the National Police to put the budget in order only a little. Surely we cannot insist that we have such an important core task of the government, namely security, which the police must take care of, in a decent manner? The Chamber states that it does not consider it sufficient. So why don't we try to put that in order in good time? This is also a clear signal to the 62,500 people who are also very concerned about the police in everyday practice about what they see happening around them and in their own work.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u270	It is therefore also a good thing that last week the Minister of V and J and the Chamber debated this issue and that agreements have been made, namely that the Court of Auditors should look at it, not everything, but specifically at the restructuring budget. It has also been agreed to investigate the required multiannual size of the police budget in relation to ambition and wishes. It also looks at the financing of the budget for the additional costs of reorganisation, to be found within the National Police budget. That seems to me to be a sensible line. This is all going to happen in the near future, and on this basis we have to establish together whether this is a budget with sufficient financial support. We believe that this is the case. Living in the Chamber. I would say: let us do it now on the basis of the facts. I think that's the wise thing to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u271	I am really surprised at the somewhat easy way in which the Prime Minister now says 'we do believe it is good', while in many ways, not only from the Chamber, but also from the people working in this field, there are serious concerns about whether this is enough. We don't just live in a time. We live in a time when security threats are incredibly great. We simply cannot afford to do this. I think it is indeed a good thing that the Chamber should then make its own decision and set you on the path that I believe you should take, namely to ensure that this budget is adjusted.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u272	Once again, I believe that we are in complete agreement on the importance of security and justice. Let us not convince each other of this, because that is not necessary. I know that this subject is very close to Mr Slob's heart. I have outlined a number of intensifications that we are going to implement in the near future. As far as this budget is concerned, the debate focuses on three elements. There are a number of actions on each of these elements to see how we deal with the implementation of targets or to see whether there is truth in the concerns that live about budgets. I think this is a good way; then you map the facts. I have also said that the cabinet always looks at the budget and the capacity in relation to its ambitions, especially in this important budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u273	The Chamber asks: can we look at creating more jobs? "No," says the Prime Minister, "because I have to take account of the majority in the First Chamber." The Chamber asks: can we reduce further burdens? "No," says the Prime Minister, "because I have to take account of the majority in the First Chamber." The Chamber asks: can we ensure that the plans are adjusted with more greening and such ideas? "No," says the Prime Minister, "because I have to take into account the relations in the First Chamber." Now this Chamber is asking: can we do something about the Justice budget, because we foresee a problem in the Upper Chamber? "No," says the Prime Minister, "I'm just going up against that concrete wall." Can the Prime Minister explain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u274	Yeah, I'm gonna try. With regard to the first four examples, I have just said that the cabinet is happy to discuss them at the occasion of the General Financial Reviews. I have just asked for attention to be paid to the fact that these talks must, of course, take place within a certain framework. We have to try to find each other. The main ambition of the cabinet is employment, job recovery and job growth. With regard to the legislative proposals that have been passed here in the Upper Chamber, I think it is logical that the cabinet should try to defend those legislative proposals and guide them through the Upper Chamber. That is the normal parliamentary work. We can all help with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u275	We can all help in this, but not if the problems of the judiciary and the police accumulate and if there is no majority there. You really don't have to be a trend watcher and you don't have to have walked around here for years to see that the signals that the political leaders are giving here very carefully will eventually make it a very annoying event in the First Chamber for Minister Van der Steur. Now the Prime Minister says: I'm just gonna send the good guy that way to get him to kick his ass there for a while. That's not wise, is it? Now I do not mind the Minister himself, but in the meantime the problems in the courts, in the Public Prosecutor's Office, in the police, in the resolution rates and so on, are not in good hands with this cabinet, nor with the VVD, whose security is such a feature! That's like being a D66 guy playing all the way from the field on the education field.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u276	That's already happened!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u277	My question is: why does the Prime Minister delegate this to the Minister of Finance next week in another consultation, or to the First Chamber in a few months' time, when he can simply make the commitment here: yes, indeed, that budget of justice, we have to come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u278	However, first of all, about the legislative proposals that lie in the Upper Chamber. In the case of legal aid, advice has not been sought in vain, partly on the suggestion of the Supreme Court. We did that at the Wolfsen Commission. We will get that advice and then we will see what that advice means in relation to the legislative proposal. With regard to the legislative proposal on the Registry Rights and the own contribution, the proposal has already been structurally softened by 13 million, also taking into account the situation in the First Chamber. With the legislative proposal institution's own contribution remains a mission of 60 million. It is therefore not the case that we go into the First Chamber blindly, insensitive to the sounds that can be heard there. We have made adjustments to all these proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u279	Somewhere in my first political career in Leiden there was a bit of a firm atmosphere in the city council...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u280	I can tell.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u281	If one of my colleagues was so obstinate in the college, we usually said good luck in choir. So good luck.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u282	I'm just trying to tell the Chamber that we're about to see what comes out of the various investigations. I have also said literally that we are making a commitment that we have to look at the relationship between tasks and budget, in the light of all the facts that will become apparent in the coming period, also in relation to how things are going in the First Chamber. What's coming out of these National Police investigations? How's the D.A. doing? What's the status of justice? That makes sense, too. It's wise policy. This brings me to the end of the block on Security and Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u283	Then I have a proposition. I'd like to suspend for a very short time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u284	That's a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u285	Then that's what we're doing now. In five minutes, the bell rings and we can start again in about ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u286	The President-in-Office of the Council will once again take the floor in order to continue his first-term reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u287	Mr. Chairman. I would like to address the following issues: energy, climate, environment, infra and a number of other issues. The latter are no less important, but fewer questions have been asked about it. I'll start with climate and environment. I have already talked about the GroenLinks climate budget. Perhaps I should first say something about the ruling in the Urgenda issue, about the execution of the verdict. The groups of Christian Union, GroenLinks and D66 have asked questions about the trial. Why does the cabinet appeal and what will the cabinet do with the ruling? Our position is that the verdict has raised the necessary important legal questions, which the cabinet would like to have examined by a higher court. These include the question of whether international conventions and agreements such as the Kyoto Protocol, which do not directly address citizens and contain open standards, can work in this way in Dutch law. We are questioning that. We want to refer this to a higher court, also in view of possible consequences for other policy areas. At the same time, the judge has ruled that the judgment is enforceable in advance and that is why we are implementing it. That is therefore separate from the decision to appeal. The Chamber has received a letter from the Cabinet stating how it does. As a follow-up, I would like to say something in the direction of Mr Samsom, who yesterday argued for a leading role for the Netherlands in energy-innovation issues. I wholeheartedly support that. We have concluded a broad-based energy agreement, of which innovation and job creation are important elements. Of course, investments in innovation are very important for achieving climate goals in our future earning model. The cabinet therefore makes a broad use of this. There is also a wide range of instruments available for this purpose. I am thinking of investments from the future fund, the recently launched Dutch investment institution and the European Fund for Strategic Investments. Their objectives are well in line with the PvdA's plea for a national innovation bank. It seems obvious to me now to discuss this proposal further with the Minister for Economic Affairs. It will also be possible to identify existing initiatives to further strengthen them where possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u288	To discuss legal questions with a judge you do not have to appeal but you can go directly to the Supreme Court. A considerable number of experts have said this during the round table held by the Chamber on the climate issue. I'd like to get a reaction to this. Doesn't the Prime Minister agree that it is a very bad signal, including to society, when the government appeals in a climate case? What does that say about the way the government looks at climate change? You have the impression that you do not take climate change and the fight against it seriously when you go to court to appeal against a historic ruling that says that this cabinet does not meet the climate objectives it has agreed internationally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u289	In jump cassation, the assumption is that you can agree with the content of the ruling, but that you object to the exact legal form. However, we want to be able to react in substance. We believe that the Netherlands is pursuing a sound climate policy. Those questions also answer that part. At the same time, we realise that the verdict is enforceable in advance. That's why we're not going to the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u290	The Prime Minister is now clearly saying that he does not agree with the content of the ruling either. The cabinet believes it will do enough to combat climate change. However, I heard yesterday from coalition partner Party of Labour that we need a little bit of a tooth. It is not enough at all what is happening at the moment and the judge's ruling has only been the beginning. There's a lot more to be done. What is the Prime Minister's position on those statements made by his coalition partner?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u291	Let me stay at the trial first. The Netherlands is taking a number of initiatives to achieve the climate objectives set by the coalition. That is 14% by 2020, 16% by 2023: you know the figures. We are taking a large number of measures here. We see, in substance, a number of objections to the ruling that has been made. At the same time, we also have objections to the form. That's why we're not going to the Supreme Court, we're going to appeal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u292	The Prime Minister is not answering my question. I wanted to know what he thinks of the statements of his coalition partner, the Labour Party. He said yesterday that the judge's ruling is one, that we do indeed need to do more to achieve the objectives and deliver on the climate agreements, but that much more needs to be done. We need to be more ambitious. I want the Prime Minister's appreciation of this verdict.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u293	I hold on to the coalition's agreements. That's quite a number of appointments. The objective is to reach 14% of renewable energy by 2020 and 16% by 2023. To achieve this, we are taking a number of measures. We're seeing the percentages improve. Old coal plants are closed down: three as of 1 January 2016 and two as of 1 July 2017. These are far-reaching measures. We regularly check whether the achievement of the objective is on track. The coalition is currently pursuing these objectives and taking action within them. I have understood Diederik Samsom's words in such a way that his ambitions continue. I realize that. The Labour Party and the VVD may or may not think differently about this, but that certainly goes beyond the agreements that have been made so far. I also think it makes sense for you to put that in such a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u294	Mrs Thieme, the last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u295	So the Prime Minister says that Mr Samsom may want to, but the cabinet is not going to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u296	In my view, Mr Samsom did not say that the cabinet should change the policy. He has said that he sees beyond the ambitions that lie ahead, others for the period after that. I think he literally said that the Urgenda pronunciation is only part of the problem; perhaps much more needs to be done. That's how I heard him. I have responded to the contribution that can be made in the near future, by stimulating the energy transition in the Netherlands in a way that enables business and the knowledge institutions to work well together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u297	That appeal is really a waste of energy. We regret that the government is putting administrative energy into that. We have just heard the Prime Minister say that the cabinet is going to start implementing it. That's what the Secretary of State said to the Chamber. What does that tell you?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u298	We will shape this implementation by identifying precisely the consequences of the ruling and what measures should be taken in the near future. We are doing a thorough study of this, which will take shape in the near future. Of course, the execution of the ruling also requires research into what to do in order to achieve the reduction targets set out in the ruling.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u299	So we're gonna get to work on it. But what are we gonna do? The Secretary of State said it differently, but it's the same thing: we're waiting for the evaluations. They're gonna be somewhere in 2016. What do you mean "urgent problem"? What do you mean, trying to put all the energy together to come up with a focused agenda for this issue and get to work as quickly as possible? After all, reducing CO emissions is an insanely big problem! I see a huge discrepancy between, on the one hand, embracing the objectives and the willingness to work on them, and, on the other hand, the way in which the cabinet is dealing with them now. Does the Prime Minister recognize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u300	I will leave that appreciation to Mr Slob. I'll see what the facts are. There's a verdict that needs to be implemented. At the same time, we appeal. Furthermore, in the coming period, I think it would be wise to look at what is legally possible, what is efficient, what we can implement in the Netherlands and how we can do it in a socially responsible way. In addition, we can follow up on a number of planned studies, such as the interdepartmental policy research on CO reduction. So it's not like we all have to do new things. We will take further decisions on this in the course of 2016.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u301	That's right, there's so much already. This is an issue that has been under discussion for so long. The cabinet can just get to work. However, it has one problem, because it is locked in an energy agreement that is obstructing the achievement of those objectives. This applies in particular to the agreement that will enter into force in 2016 on the non-taxation of coal. Just those coals are causing a lot of trouble. This also affects the credibility of the government's environmental policy. I urge the Prime Minister to really try to take action as quickly as possible, to give room for that, but also to get on with it himself. This can be done through tax plans, through fiscal policies and in other ways. Cabinet, do not go down the legal road now and do not dive into the paper mass, but get to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u302	Well, we're both in business. So we're gonna appeal and we're gonna execute the verdict.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u303	If you want to execute the verdict, you just need to get to work right now. Then you need to make sure that you can start taking measures in 2016. Some things can be decided in 2016, but with other things we will have to start now, actually already with the Tax Plan. The Prime Minister is now saying that we must first conduct a thorough investigation and wait for the results of another evaluation. The Planning Office for the Environment has prepared a report. It actually contains all the policy options that exist and which add to a reduction in CO emissions that we actually need. Then why should there be an extra appreciation from the cabinet itself? Then why does the Secretary of State still have to look at this himself? The options are already known. We don't need any more options, we need political choices. They need to be fixed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u304	What the PBL published on September 2nd is a quick scan on how to get that CO reduction. This is an overview based on existing research. Various measures are being identified to achieve this reduction target. However, the PBL also writes that such a quickscan, of course, takes limited account of factors such as economic developments, public acceptance and legal feasibility. In other words, you can't make all those decisions on the basis of such a quick scan. You're really gonna need more data.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u305	This does not require so much more research. In all these measures we know where the restrictions are and what the problems of introduction are. If the Prime Minister doesn't know that, we'd be happy to brief him on climate policy. I'd like to invite him to that. These are all kinds of measures that have actually been proposed for some 25 years. Every time, however, politics does not take action. There is therefore no need for a new investigation, but it is necessary for the Prime Minister to look for a majority in the Chamber and in his own coalition that is willing to take action and take action. It's just a matter of choosing. It does not all need to be introduced next year, because it covers the period from 2016 to 2020. However, you should start making the first choices already this year, so you can get started with this next year. However, the Prime Minister does not want to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u306	Mr Klaver is talking about what I want to do. This is, of course, very important social interests and it is about money. We've been deporting policy. We are now looking at how this statement relates to it and how to take the next steps wisely. That's not something you can just make decisions about in a few weeks. It'll take time. That's the way it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u307	This reaction is in stark contrast to the way the Prime Minister has dealt with socio-economic issues. I am thinking here of cuts in health care, changes in systems such as the personal budget, decentralisation. These things had to be carried out with steam and boiling water. We need to keep our public finances in order, we need to keep pressure on the kettle now, we need to change quickly because it is in the interests of future generations. In those areas it was possible. It has had enormous consequences for the users of care, but the Prime Minister continued. He kept saying: this is very important for our future. Now that it's about the climate, he says: yes, it's difficult, we don't know who's going to be affected and we can wait. It can't be! Global warming does not wait until the cabinet is out or the results of another investigation have appeared. Get to political choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u308	Now the impression is given that we are doing nothing. This cabinet has a very ambitious objective with regard to, for example, renewable energy. We have also worked in Europe on an ambitious common position within the framework of a global climate agreement to be reached later this year. Hopefully, that'll work. It is part of the closure of five old coal plants. That's a lot of decisions. So we're working on it. Here's the judge's challenge to do more. It seems to me very sensible to consider this very carefully, because it is a matter of a lot of money and a lot of interests. The same applies to all the measures mentioned by Mr Klaver in the areas of health care and social security. They are also always well and carefully prepared, not overnight.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u309	First of all, on this benevolent commitment to the national innovation bank. An instrument within the range of instruments is the Juncker Fund. You gave it a different name, but that's what it was popularly called. The Juncker Fund can indeed be used, provided that national governments do not use their own capital. That is, of course, a different instrument than the one we used so often. Is it true that the cabinet recognizes this and therefore wants to participate in such a new banking structure?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u310	Yeah, but for that, we need the money. That is why my proposal is to look at what is currently happening at the Dutch Investment Institution and at the Juncker Fund and how they can work together to develop the idea of such a bank within the framework of the Economic Affairs budget. There's still some work to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u311	Yeah, I know. The more the Minister of Economic Affairs can gather together in the meantime, the easier it gets. Of course, I agree with that, but I just wanted to make sure that the underlying idea is shared. I didn't ask about the existing funds, I asked for a new vehicle to bring money from Europe and that those start-ups could increase growth.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u312	Attractive to me is the idea of entrepreneurship and the business activity behind it. It also fits very well with this coalition: green and growth, all together. I just can't really look at it as quickly as we really need to find out whether the items I mentioned, such as the investment institution and other sources, give rise to sufficient matching capital. We're gonna have to look into that. We don't suddenly have a pot in the budget. There isn't one.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u313	No, and that's why I'm giving you time to look at that. That is what we see when we look at the budget for Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u314	That is the proposal, absolutely. A question has been asked about the regulatory pressure, also in agriculture and horticulture, for which Halbe Zijlstra of the VVD group asked attention. Can I respond by saying that this sector is very dear to us and that the cabinet is also encouraging a healthy business environment by reducing regulatory pressure and by pursuing a level playing field in a European context? It is important that the ambitions of the Netherlands in the field of animal welfare, for example, are reflected in European rules. The Secretary of State for Economic Affairs is working on this, together with countries such as Germany, Denmark and Sweden. In the agri-food sector, a tailor-made approach is increasingly being developed with the sector, precisely to reduce this regulatory burden. That is also a first step in implementing the VVD's Lodges motion. I think it's called "Rules Weeding." This year and next year will be devoted to the implementation of the bottlenecks that have already been identified. The first bottlenecks have been solved, for example the administrative burden on the use of antibiotics for animals. There is now also more cooperation between the authorities in the control of housing, for example, on fire safety. In 2016 we will explore with industry whether a new inventory of bottlenecks is needed. With the six-monthly reporting of the regulatory pressure, the next one foreseen in November, the Court will be kept informed of developments. I can tell you that our European Commissioner, the first Vice-President, Frans Timmermans, is also working on improving European regulation under the REFIT programme on reducing European regulatory pressure. It looks at what this programme can specifically contribute to reducing the regulatory burden in the agro-industry. I think I have answered the questions raised on climate, the environment and agriculture. If that is not contested on the part of the Chamber, I come to the last item, namely a number of remaining items. These are not insignificant issues such as education, but few questions have been asked about them. I come to the theme of family care. Mr Van der Staaij asked whether there were any plans to make the costs for the carers tax-deductible. The cabinet has no intention of doing so. Research was carried out in 2012 by the Committee on Income Tax and Surcharges, the Van Dijkhuizen Committee. That committee said that income tax is not an appropriate instrument for providing financial support to carers or volunteers. This leads to significant implementation costs and runs counter to the objective of simplifying the tax system. The target group is not known to the Tax Administration, because there is no central registration of carers. However, the cabinet is busy motivating municipalities to make more work of providing good support and equipment for carers. For example, the future agenda Informal care and support has been developed with various formal and informal care parties and care professionals and carers are working to strengthen their cooperation. Municipalities are also involved. This has also been made possible by the funds made available by Mr Van der Staaij himself in the 2013 budget debate. The cabinet draws aldermen's attention to the importance of good communication to carers, so that they know where they can go. An example of this is the letter that Secretary of State Van Rijn will send to aldermen at the end of this week. 100 million euros are available to carers each year through the WMO budget. Municipalities themselves also have an incentive to work on good support and equipment for carers. By working well with carers and the people in the area, they can provide better support that is important also remains affordable. On 24 June last, the House of Representatives again received a progress report on informal care. A question was sent to municipalities. This question shows that municipalities take the subject seriously, but that even more needs to be done to move from planning to practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u315	I asked this question because it was an organisation that was responsible for the interests of many carers that got the signal that there were a lot of bottlenecks and that so far municipalities have not taken up enough. Does the Prime Minister recognize that signal?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u316	I do recognize that municipalities are working on the planning phase, but that implementation in practice, after planning, writing a good note and having a discussion with the city council, can really gain momentum. You can also see this in the report of June 24th.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u317	Will the Prime Minister promise that he will bring this signal to the attention of the municipalities? It is precisely them who can play a crucial role in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u318	Absolutely. Secretary of State Van Rijn will do so in the letter to the aldermen sent at the end of this week.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u319	I have received a written answer to my question as to whether the household allowance is now finally off the table. Am I to understand that it will be re-implemented on 1 January 2018?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u320	It's been postponed for two years. That's what the answer says. I'll just grab it. It says, of course, that there are quite a number of policy changes affecting older people, including in the context of decentralised public administration. Furthermore, as little is known about the relationship between family care, the formation of new household compositions and income benefits, further research is appropriate. That is why the cabinet has decided to postpone the introduction of the cost sharing standard in the AOW from 1 July 2016 to 1 January 2018.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u321	So it hasn't been said yet that he's going in on that date?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u322	It is an intention that it should enter into force on that date. I come to another point concerning the concern. What does the Cabinet do to prevent children from getting in trouble? It's all about the number of fight divorces. It's really terrible when children are confronted with that. Of course, it's bad for children when their parents get divorced, but it's even worse if it's a fight divorce, where the parents roll around the streets. I think that's a terrible example of fat-me-behavior. It's terrible for kids. It is a great responsibility for parents to ensure that they break up properly. The Secretary of State for Security and Justice and those of VWS introduced the implementation plan Improving situation children in a "divorce." This is aimed at preventing and limiting fighting divorces and, above all, at limiting their damage. Experiences of children who have experienced this are used, for example. This was discussed in the Chamber in July. We want the implementation plan to be completed at least until 2016. Once again, I take this opportunity to say the following. It is always up to people to decide to divorce themselves, but do it properly and do not make children the victim, more than the divorce already does.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u323	I have a question about the concern of the Prime Minister. Does he agree with me that the civilisation of a country can be measured very well by the treatment of the elderly in that country? The Dutch government has almost cut back on the care of the elderly, cut daily spending about completely and cut home care by about half. Isn't that unworthy of a civilized country? The Prime Minister used the word "debate trick" earlier when I said that we should spend the money for asylum seekers on the elderly, but that is not a debate trick. It's just choices you can make. Next year's budget earmarked 1.5 billion for the reception of asylum seekers. That is far too little, but it is in the budget. If I suggest to the Prime Minister that we not spend the 1.5 billion on those asylum seekers, but on the people who raised our country, by re-establishing the nursing homes, by re-launching the people into decent daily spending, by ensuring that there are enough staff in the nursing and nursing homes to assist those elderly people, that is not a demagogic proposal, but something we can do. I wish we could find each other at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u324	The choice between the subject we were discussing this morning and the care of the elderly is, in fact, purely demagogy, which I am maintaining. Let's park that for a second. Let's take a look at the care of the elderly itself, otherwise we'll get a whole repeat of this morning. In the Netherlands, we spend a lot of money on health care. Studies show that the Netherlands has the best healthcare system in Europe. This probably makes our country one of the top three in the world. That goes for the whole health care system. The hospitals, the general practitioners and the care of the elderly are really of very high quality. There are very good people working. Is there a problem? Yeah, there are. There are problems with the implementation of the pgb. We're fixing it. Of course, there are also problems in nursing and nursing homes. We put extra money into that, for example by providing a higher level of education for our highly motivated nurses and other staff in those homes. Let me give you one example. I went to work a while ago at a geriatric institution for elderly people with dementia. That was also because of the debate that took place here yesterday in the Chamber: can you no longer do with the existing budgets? After the work visit, I said, "If it happens to me, I want to live here." It is an institution that offers completely tailor-made work, very small-scale. All this small scale is put together in an institution where there are quite a few people again, but it is organized in a way that makes you feel that you are not in a very large institution. One is not locked up, one can really get out of the way, one can go to the store oneself. If people don't remember the way back, there is someone who will guide them there. That institution does all that with the existing budgets. When I talk to the executives about what they do to make sure that intermediate layers are removed and hear that those executives are fully serviceable to the people on the work floor, I am very impressed by that. This institution is based in Wezep. I've visited more of these institutions. Unfortunately, I have also seen institutions where I sometimes felt that leadership was the goal rather than the elderly. I don't think I'm gonna call that one here. I'm just gonna use other opportunities for that. I'm very impressed by what's happening in health care. There are problems and that is why we are putting extra money in it, but I do not recognize the picture Mr Wilders is drawing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u325	Greetings for everyone in the care that does well. Those good examples, of course, are there. But for every example where things are going well, there are at least ten where things are not going well. Before we speak in general terms, I would like to briefly mention an e-mail that I believe all colleagues have received. Someone says in that: our daughter is 24 years old and she has been working in care for the elderly for 17 years. She was on the night shift the other night. One of her colleagues was sick. So she was alone. Then she only had the responsibility of 72 elderly people. The father writes: if fire had broken out among the elderly, who unfortunately also often lost their way, my daughter would have been the only one present in an institution for 72 elderly people. If her colleague hadn't been ill, there'd be two people. There are a lot of examples, for example. This can't be happening. This is just irresponsible dealing with people's lives. Your mom or your dad will just sit there. Neither does the Prime Minister. I know. Politics is making choices, not demagogy. I say stand up for your own people first. Say no to those asylum seekers as long as there is still a situation in the Netherlands where elderly people depend on one nurse at night with 72 people. It can't be. If we agree, we have to make other choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u326	Again, this morning I chose a strong position in the discussion on costs of asylum versus costs of care for the elderly. That's what I'm referring to. Mr Wilders raised a relevant point: care for the elderly. Let us not involve this in the debate on migration, but let us really take a look at the care of the elderly. Fortunately, substantial budgets are available for this. This is a civilized country. Much has been looked at ways of curbing cost increases. In the whole of the health care sector, the costs are also billions in this cabinet period, for good reasons. Fortunately, we are able to get that cost increase under control. Let's take a pure macro-level look. I'll come up with a microexample after that. I fully agree with Mr Wilders that it is ultimately about the example he calls it, and about what is happening in practice. First I want to look at the total figures and how much healthcare costs in the Netherlands. Only 15 to 20 years ago was that about 6% of national income. In the meantime, we spend more than 10% on it. So the costs have increased enormously. Lodewijk Asscher's social security portfolio has barely increased as a percentage of our total national income. If you do not control the cost increase in healthcare, the care becomes priceless. You won't be able to do that anymore. Those good general practitioners, those good nursing homes and those good hospitals are available to everyone. Knowing that we have so much money available, the task is to use it wisely. I know Mr Wilders by my side in the fight against bureaucracy and in the effort to impose power on people in the workplace. I've noticed that in the period we worked together. In recent years, I have seen many examples of institutions where the boss is fully devoted to the staff and especially to the people who live there, and not to himself, his own ego and his own fat self. When that happens, it leads to wonderful examples. I also know examples where this is not the case. Mr Wilders has also mentioned such an example. What he just sketched is a terrible story. I think it is a joint task for us to ensure that we bring the best possible care to the workplace in nursing homes and hospitals, without falling into bureaucracy and many rules, and without being tempted to spend a lot of extra money. We've been spending a lot of money on this. I am afraid that often leads to more than less bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u327	Despite the fine words and the proper compliments to those who work there: it is indeed about how we organise it. There is no subject in which the cabinet is a greater nuisance than organising good care. I'm gonna let a couple of points come through. The cabinet says: there are indeed too few hands on the bed in nursing homes, so there has to be money. In 2016, 210 million will be added for nursing homes. How does the Prime Minister think that healthcare institutions can hire people if they know that 250 million will be cut in those same nursing homes in 2017?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u328	Indeed, we are now paying extra money for the care, and in particular for this care. Fortunately, this will enable us to reduce to an important extent the long-term austerity that is unfortunately necessary here too. There was a much bigger cut. We will fill it out in a way that minimises the primary processes that are so important to the staff and the people living in these houses. I think that with this additional investment we can achieve the ambition of Secretary of State Van Rijn and of the whole cabinet to invest both in the quality experienced directly by the older person, simply because of the contact that exists with him or her, and in the level of training of the staff in those houses. I think this is very important. I also think Mr Roemer agrees with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u329	Anything but that! If you're going to invest $210 million now and tell nursing homes to just hire staff, then it's clear that no dog will do that if he knows he's going to have to turn in $250 million a little later. You don't make long-term commitments if you have to make more cuts in the following year than you get. This is just telling people something. It's not even a tissue for the bleeding yet. The Prime Minister once again holds people for something he can't live up to. But let me take another example. How does the Prime Minister look at the practice of "care nearby"? I think that is a principle which many in the Chamber support. The practice is that a quarter of the municipalities say: that means we do nothing at all. Other municipalities say: we're even going to spend extra money on it. Does the Prime Minister think it's normal that it obviously depends on where you live, or whether you have responsible care for the elderly?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u330	First of all, I should like to comment on Mr Roemer's first point. He refers to the mission in 2017. This concerns 2.8% of the total amount of long-term care in 2017. I am not running away from it: 2.8% is 2.8% of the total amount of 18 billion for long-term care in 2017. We manage to reduce the target by 45 million in 2016. As I said, we are looking for it now not in measures that affect the relationship between the residents and the caregivers, but in matters such as purchasing power, reduction of overhead and reduction of administrative burdens. In fact, this is in line with the discussion I had with Mr Wilders. I think there's a lot of room left for those things. I have just given a few examples of this. I come to Mr Roemer's second question. It is part of the reforms that there are more powers in the municipalities to shape care, with much more tailor-made work, integrated with a number of other issues, such as youth care and the Participation Act. There are differences. That's true. There are differences between municipalities. That's what municipal democracy is about. It is part of the reforms that municipalities implement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u331	So the Prime Minister thinks it is normal that an older person should not get anything in one place and an older person with the same illness, of the same age and with the same need for care in another place gets decent help. That's incomprehensible. That's why I want to tell the Prime Minister something. We know the municipal basic package for babies. Every baby gets a helper, but we leave it to the municipalities about how they organize it: at someone's home, in the consulting office, in a care facility, in a certain center or wherever. Everyone knows, however, that my baby is entitled to a helper. Is the Prime Minister willing to think with us about making a municipal care package for the elderly? In any case, we indicate to which older people are entitled, so that it makes no difference whether they live in Baarn or Boxmeer, and we agree on a minimum rate so that there can be no false competition. What municipalities then want to do more themselves, is up to the municipalities. And how the municipalities want to carry it out is also up to the municipalities. So we don't make a difference between older people in Baarn and older people in Boxmeer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u332	I'd be careful to do that. The aim of the reforms is precisely to make much more tailor-made work possible at municipal level, although the law does offer a number of guarantees. It is not the case that the law has been abolished, the budget has been transferred, and the adage 'find it out' applies. Of course, the law also offers a number of safeguards. However, he offers municipalities a great deal of policy freedom to implement this policy itself. I wouldn't want to destroy that achievement. The way we used to do it, namely "one size fits all," which means it doesn't fit anyone, it didn't work. The municipality can now look much more comprehensively and knows people much better, whether it is youth care, care for the elderly or care for people at a distance from the labour market. It is up to municipal democracy, the city council and the aldermen to implement it properly. I see incredibly good examples of this. I think these decentralisations are of great value.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u333	Now the Prime Minister is again not telling the truth. He says it's guaranteed. So it's not. The fact is that now that it is decentralised, i.e. it has gone to the municipalities, the right to care is gone. Municipalities only have an obligation to conduct an individual review, but are not obliged to provide care. The fact is that home care has already been abolished in 25% of the municipalities, while in other municipalities it has been replaced. It is nice that care is nice in other municipalities, but 25% of the municipalities have abolished home care. You'll only just live in that place, needing care and being left to you by the Rutte cabinet. It says, "You're not entitled to it anymore, figure it out." The solution is simple: for babies we take care of it, so do for the parents.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u334	I remember when I myself was Secretary of State for Social Affairs and the issue of assistance and decentralisation, discussions were held on a first piece of decentralisation. It was discussed whether this was a claim or a right, how you determine what someone needs and how you deal with requests. I think we've made the right choices. The law outlines what is ultimately desired in terms of objectives and quality and gives the municipalities a lot of space to tailor them. My concern is that if you do what Mr Roemer proposes, you really limit the room for the municipalities to actually fill in that customization. I'd really be against that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u335	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u336	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I thought Mr. Pechtold was walking to the microphone, but it's a sham. No, he's gonna say something.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u337	That's almost entrapment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u338	I was wondering if we had already gotten to education.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u339	No. That is a very small part of this block, by the way, but that is not because of me. I'm trying to answer the question. We have now dealt with a great many questions about care, partly because of the many interruptions. I now come to a few questions from the Labour Party about education. Mr Pechtold asked a question about the Science Agenda. That's the only question I have from him.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u340	Then I'm going to surprise the Prime Minister with the appropriate education. A written question has been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u341	Yes, exactly! We replied in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u342	Yeah, but that was a disappointing answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u343	Ah.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u344	Many were critical when introducing appropriate education, but now more than half of the teachers in primary education and even 60% of teachers in secondary education are negative about this. 70% of teachers say appropriate education will affect the regular pupils. That is why I asked in the first place whether we could do something about it. Is the cabinet prepared to facilitate primary education in this area? I suspect otherwise a second pgb will arise. I was thinking in particular of class assistants.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u345	I'm just trying to get that question out of the set of written questions. I see now that he's with the questions about the Liv. Mr Pechthold used the Liv as cover. When I followed yesterday's debate on appropriate education, I had the impression that there was a common line in it. Big steps have been taken. There are, of course, bottlenecks. Mr Pechtold also drew attention to this yesterday. He takes the cabinet seriously. That is also stated in the written reply. The Secretary of State for Education, Sander Dekker, intends to inform the Chamber shortly in response to the signals. Isn't that the best time, so I would ask Mr Pechtold, to come back to that? I believe that Mr Pechtold intended to use the live as cover for his plan. I have already explained to Mr Buma that the live is unfortunately not available. The live has to be paid out in 2017 because we introduce this provision 2017. So there's no money. But apart from that financial coverage, it would be my proposal to wait and see what that reporting will do and then discuss it further.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u346	I would rather not wait for that, because the Children's Ombudsman has also strongly judged how appropriate education is going to land. I just don't think we can wait for that. I have just given some percentages of how this is currently felt in education. And if it can't be that liv, people are gonna think, "What are they all talking about?" But all of these are budget lines, I would like to propose: is it not possible to get 5% out of the billion that we spend annually as a government on consultants, i.e. a figure of 50 million, in order to please education and provide extra hands in the classroom to make that "appropriate" really appropriate?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u347	The Secretary of State is in the process of inventorying the signals. He's coming to the Chamber at the end of this month, September, with a report on that. Wouldn't it be better to look at it? Mr Pechtold can give his signals, the things that I think he can get directly to him, then add to them. We can then see whether we can fit all this into the existing frameworks, or conclude that more is needed. I can't see that now. That's better than looking for money in a post that's really pissed off the followers of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u348	It would be very surprising if the Prime Minister, at this stage of the debate, were to deal with this kind of proposal and say: nice idea, that is what we are doing. I think people would fall off their seats. We're gonna move this over to September.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u349	So this month.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u350	But I did not hear no, and in the spirit of the commitments made in this debate, that is already a huge gain. I suggest to the Prime Minister and this cabinet that, from the appropriate education, we will naturally win the competition between those expensive consultants, to whom we spend a billion a year, and those hands in the classroom, those class assistants on the other hand. I can feel the Prime Minister moving my way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u351	In that case, I'm gonna take a chance too, because it's not gonna end today with the Prime Minister. So if he's in this mood right now... It's also about education. Yesterday I had an interrupting debate with Mr Samsom, right after Mr Pechtold mentioned appropriate education, about another problem in education: green education. It concerns in particular the AOCs. This problem has been going on for a long time. Green education was also discussed here last year: that's at EZ, EZ has no money and so you name it; problems. Now the situation is most likely to arise that the AOCs per student get €1,000 less than the ROCs, which are again funded from the Education budget. How are we going to solve this problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u352	As is well known, green education was indeed covered by the old Ministry of Agriculture and is now housed in the Ministry of Economic Affairs, with Secretary of State Dijksma. However, I think we have to note that the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs has structurally increased the budget for the whole of green education in the Spring Paper, by 31 million in 2016, reaching 21 million in 2019 and 12 million in 2020. This is necessary because of the increasing numbers of pupils. In the letter on sector education, the cabinet states that structural improvements are possible and that therefore green education can also remain within the existing budgetary frameworks. I think my love for green education is as great as Mr Slob's love for green education, so we can find each other there. However, there must be the challenge to consider whether there can be integration within the existing financial frameworks. This can be done, for example, by further cooperation within the green education column. In addition, it is of course possible to see how more cooperation can be done with specialist institutions. This will also strengthen the integration of green education into the labour market and into the region. This is part of the strategic development agenda, in which green education works with business. I understand that Mr Slob refers to the Berenschot report on the implementation of the operating cuts, which was commissioned by the AOCs. This was discussed with Economic Affairs on 16 September. The Ministry will go into further detail with the sector about that report. However, these are the financial data. I believe that the figures also show that we are trying to finance this as generously as possible within the existing frameworks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u353	That was a very comprehensive and well prepared answer. The summary is that the Prime Minister is not going to do anything about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u354	Well, we're doing a lot about it. It's 31 million, going down to 21 million to 12 million. That's extra money. This is necessary because of the increasing numbers of pupils. We are going to integrate green education into wider education as much as possible. It will continue to be covered by Economic Affairs, but its funding will be integrated into wider education as much as possible, so we agreed with each other. Within Economic Affairs' budgetary capabilities, maximum consideration is given to how green education can continue to be supported financially. That happens this way, too. We have been aware of this situation for more than two years and are preparing for it. I understand that they are lobbying because they find this annoying, and I understand that, but it is not an impossible task.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u355	My impression is that there will be a difference between the funding of students on AOCs and that of students on rockets. We probably won't be able to figure that out right now. I don't know if we got all the information, because I'm hearing a few new things now. Can the cabinet put its position on this issue on paper and can the Prime Minister send us this? Then we can discuss this at another time, because as far as I am concerned, the last word has not yet been mentioned. This really is a real problem that we need to look at together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u356	That's what I'm telling you. The PvdA has asked whether the learning rights for the future can be implemented more firmly. In the experiments with demand financing, a different funding system is used. Students are eligible for vouchers which they receive from funded or non-funded institutions...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u357	Excuse me, I'm going to interrupt the Prime Minister. The terminology is a bit mixed up. The Prime Minister answers a wonderful question about learning rights and vouchers for students, but I was referring to the right of workers to always learn during their jobs in the context of lifelong learning.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u358	Yeah, that's what I'm getting at: lifelong learning credit.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u359	Then you can skip the text on learning rights, because I was extremely not interested in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u360	I thought it would be good for the rest. It is fantastic for the rest of the Chamber to understand the context, but I understand that everyone is so well aware that this is not necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u361	You may answer the question for Mr Zijlstra, but you do not have to answer it for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u362	Then I shall inform Mr Zijlstra in a small circle. Lifelong learning credit is introduced. This offers new groups of students, including part-time students and students over 30, the opportunity to borrow tuition fees or tuition fees and can thus remove a financial barrier to education. That's of great value. In doing so, we are taking important steps to promote learning culture in the Netherlands. That starts with people themselves, though, I think of the mindset, but this helps. Of course, more steps have been taken in recent years. The transition fee is more focused on education. This has been done with the sector plans and the bridge-WW. In MBO and higher education, we have taken steps to make education more consistent with the needs of business. If you really want to raise awareness of the importance of lifelong learning, it is important that employees, businesses, independent educational institutions and the regions themselves do more. That's what we're encouraging. We are also using the sectoral plans and the ESF, the European Social Fund. In addition, there is another interesting source, which is often used too little, namely the R&D funds, the training and development funds. They can also play a role in intersectoral training and in enabling personal training budgets. As a result, I will answer the question about secondary vocational education. There was a call for more cooperation, colleges and smaller units. It is very important that the MBO can respond better and faster to trends and changes in the labour market. That is why we are taking measures to make MBO education more flexible so that schools can respond better to the needs of businesses and, for example, health care developments. MBO schools will be given more space to work more quickly with regional companies and institutions to create a training or learning path. We want to focus on what young people really need to learn, what businesses and institutions need and what education concept is best suited to it, especially at regional level. On 14 September, so this week, a letter was sent to the House of Representatives on this subject. It also states that it is our goal to organise the MBO more small-scale in the end. That's the human size. We want to achieve this by introducing a community of mbo-colleges. This means that education is designed in smaller learning environments. This means that they are also more recognizable for students, but also for business. This is of great importance, and this will also require a proper cultural change in the regions, especially in the major regional training colleges. I know they're very motivated to do that. The Court will be further informed in autumn 2015. I am now trying to look behind the question that Mr Samsom asked about this. We already have an apprentice-competitor system in our MBO, and a very strong involvement of the business community. It would be my hope that we can also learn here from the anchoring that applies in Germany. That's where the same system actually exists. However, the big difference lies in the enormous prestige you have when you are a teacher or when you are a student in a company. The old apprenticeship system is now called the vocational apprenticeship. A person who works four days and goes to school for a day has at least as much prestige and even more prestige in Germany than a person who goes to school for four days and works one day. I don't want to make any choices about that. I think they're both very valuable, but they have social standing. It's of great value if you've learned a trade and you're really a professional or a woman. It is also of great value that you can earn a good living with it and you can also keep yourself flexible and sharp through lifelong learning. So I see opportunities in that respect. Minister Bussemaker is working on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u363	I want to give a big compliment for lifelong learning. That's very important. Then why does life-long learning stop at 55? After your 55th, you're not supposed to learn for a lifetime.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u364	It always has to do with money, of course, even here. That is a question of money. Let me be honest with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u365	I conclude that lifelong learning is not lifelong learning. Lifelong learning can take you up to the age of 55 and then you're not supposed to learn anymore, even though you're supposed to work until, for example, your 67th.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u366	No, even after that, you're gonna keep learning. Of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u367	Yeah, but not with lifelong learning credit. Well, that's just as important.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u368	That does end at 55 years. That's right. But it doesn't say you can't learn.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u369	It is therefore clear that the cabinet no longer encourages this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u370	The theme of this day is: politics is making choices in scarcity. It was very nice to hear that from Mr Wilders. That goes for here, too. It's inevitable. You'd love to do anything for everyone, but you can't. And you don't want a government that takes everything out of people's hands. So choices have been made here. That doesn't change the fact that I know people from far in the 80s who are still learning. Mr. Chairman. I mean, at a quarter to six... no, you don't!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u371	No, not yet. And I'll have another one after that. I have just announced in the regulation that I am concerned about the costs for the Royal House. The questions about Huis ten Bosch have not yet been answered, but the Minister for Housing and National Service will certainly do so after I have reappelled them. What the hassle once all began was a gift for the eighteenth birthday of then still Princess O'Brien, and now again Beatrix. That was The Green Drake. We had quite a bit of maintenance on that a few years ago. That ran in the three and a half, four tons. In the meantime, we have changed the budgetary system. That boat was at the Department of Defense in terms of maintenance. That's where the maintenance was done. Now it is put on the defence budget as well. That seems logical in itself, but in the same gesture, maintenance suddenly goes from €51.000 to €95.000 per year. How can it be that the maintenance of a boat that I have been told costs about three to four tons a year if you buy that new one costs a tonne?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u372	I could give the answer now, but since it concerns Mr Pechtold, I am going to do it more thoroughly and get the answer in second time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u373	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u374	My question concerns an answer which has been given in writing, but which I may have some clarification on. It's about the extraction of gas in Groningen. It seems that this year's extraction is 30 billion cubic metres, but in the current forecast for next year, extraction is going up again to 33 billion cubic metres. The CDA does not understand that, because since July 1st the agreement was that the extraction would not go any further. Back to 30 billion cubs, so the CDA appreciates that. But we do not understand the move to take 33 billion cubic metres back from 1 January.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u375	This year it is 30 billion cubic metres from the ground and 3 billion cubic metres from the gas supply. That's 33 billion cubs together. That's what we're going through next year. In December, according to the reply, a decision on the extraction in 2016 will be taken along two tracks. It is 33 billion cuub this year; 30 billion cuub plus 3 billion cuub from stock.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u376	Just for the sake of certainty, I respect that the decision has yet to come, and for the sake of clarity: does this mean that the extraction goes from 30 to 33 billion cubic metres? With regard to the Prime Minister's term 'flat', gas supplies are concerned, but this year's extraction is 30 billion cubic metres, with 3 billion cubic metres out of the reserve. So next year, the extraction goes up again to 33 billion cubic metres. I wonder if that is what the Groningen people meant when they agreed to what is happening now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u377	Nothing has actually been decided for next year. We have a decision to take in December. For the budget, you go out, ceterus paribus, from this year's level. But again, in December we will take the decision. So this actually says very little about what we're really going to do in 2016.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u378	Politically, that's a big deal. When the deal was made on 1 July, it was the Labour Party in particular who said that extraction should no longer exceed 30 billion cubic metres. I do not think that party meant that the extraction by 1 January 2016 could be above 30 billion cubic metres. So it is quite a political decision to include 33 billion in the budget. That's not just anything. I respect that we are going to talk about it, but this is going to be a very spicy discussion, including with the Groningers, I say right away. Of course, they never anticipated this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u379	One more time, however, before there is a misunderstanding: in December we will take that decision. This year the total extraction level is 33 billion cubic metres. That comes from two sources, Mr Buma is right, but the total is 33 billion cubic metres. In the budget it is assumed that this will continue next year, but we know that it is also stated in the documents that we are going to take decisions in December on the basis of the traces I put in the written set. In doing so, we are looking at what is a responsible level of gas extraction. We also consider how the reversal of the gas supply system works.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u380	In replying to Mr Buma's question in writing, I read that the level of gas extraction depends partly on the extent to which we are able to strengthen the houses. If we manage to strengthen the houses in Groningen, the security risk will be reduced. As a result, there could no longer be the need to go back into gas extraction. Did I get that correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u381	The important thing is that there's nothing new here. What it says here is what we agreed earlier, namely that the Minister of Economic Affairs, Henk Kamp, will come to the cabinet in December and come to the Chamber with a decision on 2016. All the things that are in this book, we have agreed before. We're gonna look at all things. This also applies to the organisations mentioned. There are no new things in the written answer; it is all known.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u382	I find it strange that you say: it's annoying that there are earthquakes in Groningen, but as long as your house doesn't collapse or cracks in it, it's acceptable. Then it's just annoying that the ground there is shaking. We have to get back into the amount of gas we're winning, don't we? Otherwise, those tremors will continue to occur. Whether or not there are cracks in houses, earthquakes in Groningen are not acceptable, are they?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u383	We went back pretty good, didn't we? We are from over 50 billion cuub now to 30 billion cuub plus 3 billion cuub. That's quite a run-back.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u384	The point is that it is indicated: maybe we can leave it at that; maybe we don't have to go back at all, if we can strengthen houses. A conditionality is created. If we are able to strengthen houses, if there is no risk of rupture and no risk of collapse, then it doesn't really matter that the ground keeps shaking in Groningen. Then we'd better stay at the current level. That's special to me. You actually say: it doesn't matter if there are earthquakes, as long as houses don't collapse. Well, that's the norm.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u385	No, I really don't, and so does Mr. Klaver. We have discussed this a number of times before, at least not myself with the Chamber, but the Minister for Economic Affairs. All grounds on which that decision is taken are known. Mr. Klaver now lights one out, like: oh, so as a sister and so on, then we can go back to 50. That is not the intention at all. This autumn we are going to look very seriously at the map and what the facts are. What is a responsible level of gas extraction? That's what we're gonna talk about and that's how it's supposed to be. I think that combating earthquakes is a very important point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u386	Mr. Pechtold, do you still have an open question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u387	The Prime Minister won't blame me...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u388	Ask the written set, won't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u389	No, no, you can just respond spontaneously.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u390	Those questions are dangerous!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u391	He will not fail to point out to me that, by the end of this budget debate, I would like to mention a section which I always look at, namely the Caribbean part of the Netherlands. In the Throne speech, warm words were spoken about 200 years of Kingdom and also about the part of the Netherlands that belonged to our former colonies and is now part of our Kingdom. Of course there are problems there, but I didn't find the sense in the throne speech about upper and underworld getting mixed, in the light of the somewhat tense relations chosen so carefully. An island like Sint-Maarten has called the bell a number of times. My question is whether the Prime Minister is aware that in that part of the Kingdom in particular these matters are being read even more closely. Does he agree with me that we shouldn't put all the drivers on the islands on the same footing?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u392	The latter of course I agree, nevertheless I find the situation worrying, especially on Saint Martin. That is why there is considerable additional investment there, including in police capacity. I cannot say too much about this in public, but let us not underestimate the problems. They're serious.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u393	I know.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u394	I know.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u395	Yet the speech of the throne is something other than a budget and something other than a consultation here. The speech of the throne is certainly listened very closely in that part of the Kingdom. It is more of a call for action, and I shall conclude by saying that, when we talk about that part of our Kingdom, it may, as far as I am concerned, be more positive. I would like us to encourage the forces that are developing there and that are good for public administration, law enforcement and integrity rather than always talking about the other side.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u396	I agree that there are many people of good will in Curaçao, Aruba and Saint Martin. If Mr Pechtold says: pay attention to this too, I very much agree with him. Nevertheless, we have been very concerned about the budget in Aruba. Good steps have now been taken there. We need to monitor that very carefully, but we're working on it. Curaçao also remains vulnerable, but I very much agree with Mr Pechtold: we should also mention the positive forces.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u397	I hesitated to mention the subject because I did not mention it in my first term. If I rob the Prime Minister with it, he can come back to it in second term. This is the only opportunity to talk to him about it, or we need to hold separate consultations on it. The Prime Minister gave a speech on 15 August at the 70th anniversary of Japan's capitulation. Then he regretted the feeling of denial that lives with a certain group of people who lived at that time or in the Dutch East Indies, or who were put in another place by the Japanese. He regretted that people had felt so annoying about it for so long. This whole discussion, whether or not he should have apologized, I will leave it at that, but there is still what they call the 'Indian issue', the lack of clarity about late salaries and war damage. That has still not been satisfactorily resolved and closed. These people are getting older and older. In fact, we should just do that now. My question to the Prime Minister is: when can we hear from you or from Secretary of State Van Rijn, who is also involved, that it has finally been resolved?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u398	This requires a very careful answer. I do not want to improvise on this point. I'll get back to you in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u399	This brings the first deadline to an end. We're having dinner now. At that time the second term and possible motions can also be prepared. We'll continue at 7:30.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u400	I'm reopening the meeting. The next item is the second term of the General Political Review.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u401	Mr. Chairman. Two days General Political Reviews. We can draw the conclusion: the presents are forgiven and the fut is out. People want to move forward, but the cabinet has become an obstacle in many areas. The VVD and PvdA are not officially divorced yet, but have not been sharing table and bed for a long time. That's what we heard yesterday when Mr Zijlstra and Mr Samsom sketched beautiful lines for the future that barely touched each other anywhere. The group chairmen talked about everything except next year's budget. There will be elections in a year and a half, but our country cannot afford an election campaign of one and a half years. 2016 should not be a lost year. The problems we face, such as the growing inequality and the reception of refugees in our own region or in the Netherlands, are far too great for that. One thing is certain: no one has been helped with greater contradictions. We can't afford indifference at this time. We cannot look away from the great problems of people fleeing war and violence. At the same time, we cannot ignore the unrest in our country. We can't look away from that either, because the contradictions only get bigger if we don't have a good answer to the concerns of these people. I have therefore asked the Prime Minister today to stand up for all the Dutch: for the people who flee war and who we want to provide shelter for, but also for the people who are concerned about the way in which we have to take care of these people and who are wondering how many people we can take care of. The story of more shelter in the region, which the Prime Minister comes with, is not enough. I call once again on the Prime Minister to show himself in the Netherlands to people who are trying to help others, but especially in neighbourhoods that are now very concerned about the way in which care is organised. The concerns about the rambling justice budget are widely shared in the Chamber. The police, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Dutch Forensic Institute and the judiciary are short of money. That's gonna hurt safety. Eight thousand police officers in The Hague yesterday had a very clear message to the cabinet: do not buy us off with a cigar from our own box; give us the respect, appreciation and reward we deserve. I call on the cabinet to come up with an open and real consultation to replace the yoke of the wage agreement now on police officers. The cabinet does not respond to the protests of the police officers. On the contrary, they need to do more. Police are asked to do more to combat terrorism and to receive refugees. Meanwhile, they also have to stay alive in the more and more stuck National Police. If cops can finish their work, it's gonna get stuck in the state's attorney's office. That can't do the job. Cases stay down and we see the same thing happening in the judiciary. That's why I'm tabling the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the financial problems at the Ministry of Security and Justice are high and that, inter alia, the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Netherlands Forensic Institute and the judiciary need additional financial resources to continue to provide the desirable performance in the field of investigation and prosecution;]] [[calls on the Government to release the necessary financial resources for the budget of Security and Justice and to inform the Court of Justice before the General Financial Reviews,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Roemer, Mr Van Haersma Buma, Mr Pechtold, Mr Slob, Mr Klaver, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Thieme and Mr Krol.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-6]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u402	It is a clear motion calling for additional financial resources for the AFB. It doesn't say how much. It just says that people fear holes. The VVD will not support this motion because we don't even know how much money it is. However, I also see a signal in the motion. Through this interruption, I would like to convey the message to the cabinet that it might be wise to explore the situation, so that we can have a little more clarity about the significance of this motion and whether or not we have a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u403	Thank you for the interruption by Mr Zijlstra. He has understood very well the scope and purpose of this motion. It is supported by almost the entire opposition. I share Mr Zijlstra's view that the cabinet should take this very seriously if it does not want to get into trouble. Mr Zijlstra may be voting against the motion, but I see his explanation as a secret yes to the motion. In particular, let the cabinet tie that between the ears. The Prime Minister also spoke words this morning that made me very happy. He said that what is not going well must be improved. That is a bit strange and I thought: this is actually a bit of a break with cabinet policy. But then there was a debate about it and, well... it is an optimistic message that we can do something with. Many things are not going well and so much can be improved, starting with care. The cabinet comes with an attention hour for people in nursing homes. That is a very poor and once-in-a-lifetime consolation, because the extra money that nursing homes get for this, they lose a year later. In fact, a year later, even more goes off than it is now. Older people and the care staff deserve better than this. An hour of attention for people in a nursing home is really not enough. These people need care and attention 24 hours a day. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government is releasing money for extra attention to residents in nursing homes and that there is talk of one "hour of attention" per day;]] [[considers that care and attention is not required 1 hour a day but 24 hours a day;]] [[In addition, considers that the investment will not have an impact as there is a planned reduction of 250 million in 2017 over the elderly care sector;]] [[calls on the government to shape the investment in such a way as not to pay an hour's bill and to remove the planned austerity in 2017,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Roemer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-7]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u404	One point that we have discussed for several years in a row is the payment of wages in the event of sickness of workers and the difficulties that this poses for small self-employed workers, especially those with a few men. The SP believes that workers deserve good protection. At the same time, we want small self-employed workers not to be burdened by excessive burdens. We have already put forward proposals for a different system in order to bear the burden of re-payment in the event of illness. Because we would like the cabinet to finally start resolving the problems with it, I will table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee (hereinafter referred to as "the Committee'),]] [[calls on the Government, after consulting business associations, to examine ways of reducing the burden on small and medium-sized enterprises of the sickness pay scheme and to inform the Court of Justice of this before Christmas;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Roemer, Mr Zijlstra, Mr Pechtold, Mr Van Haersma Buma and Mr Samsom.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-8]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u405	The current tax system increases inequality in the country. More than 66% of all wealth in the Netherlands is owned by only 10% of the population. As a result, the bill is misdistributed. The highest incomes and the largest assets are kept out of the wind. If we want to reduce contradictions, we must start by tackling the growing gap between rich and poor in our country. We can do that if we make the taxes on capital fairer. This is possible if we allow middle-income or lower-income people to pay less tax and the people with the highest incomes to pay more. The SP therefore wants to introduce a millionaire tax. This narrows the gap between the mega empires and the rest of the people in the Netherlands. In this way, we will ensure that the most wealthy Dutch will pay a fairer share in building our care, our infrastructure and our education. There's plenty for everyone. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the number of millionaires continues to increase, as did the number of children growing up below the poverty line;]] [[Considers that millionaires should contribute more to keeping social services in order and reducing poverty;]] [[calls on the government to introduce a millionaire tax,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Roemer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u406	We have a year and a half to go until the next election. I can understand why the two coalition parties are looking beyond this cabinet period. They've had it with each other. Everyone's been able to see that for the past few days. Great images are being sketched for the long term, but real solutions to today's problems are not being delivered. However, time is too precious to wait for these two coalition parties who are only working with each other and not with the interests of the people.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u407	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the cabinet for answering all the questions asked. We have debated the 2016 budget for many hours here, but the most pressing issue was the refugee crisis. I must say that I have had a double feeling about the debate. On the one hand, the VVD very much appreciates the fact that the cabinet is working seriously to solve this problem, for example by removing the right to asylum if safe ports are created in the region, but also by trying to get Europe on the same page, to address those countries that do not want to take responsibility. They are not only in Eastern Europe, but also elsewhere in Europe. After all, all those thousands of asylum seekers who are knocking here are not only coming through Schiphol Airport and the port of Rotterdam. They have been freely passed on by several European Member States, and that is contrary to the agreements we have made on this issue. Europe must be united, but that is only possible if we all stick to the agreements. On the other hand, I wonder what Dutch people think they have been watching this debate in the House of Representatives over the last few days. Dutch people who are genuinely concerned about the large flow of asylum seekers. On the one hand, they see Mr Wilders, who puts every asylum seeker on the same footing and sees closing the border as the only real solution. On the other hand, they see parties following Angela Merkel's line: everyone is welcome here, the more asylum seekers arrive, the more civilized we are. They add great leadership to someone like Angela Merkel, but ignore the fact that her statements have led to a large increase in the number of asylum seekers and thus an increase in the number of people making the dangerous crossing to Europe, with all the consequences. It shows that, as politicians, we must be very aware of the effects that our statements may have. A real discussion on this subject does not seem to take place in this house. You're either civilized or racist. We have to get out of this contradiction, because it's fake. She does not do justice to the many Dutch who genuinely worry. The Netherlands is not waiting for the provocative texts of Mr Wilders, nor for the political correctness of other parties. The Netherlands is waiting for politicians who are trying to solve serious problems such as this. That is not easy, because there is no simple solution. However, we need to get out of this cramp. We must do what the Netherlands expects of us and what we have been chosen for. We must give the Dutch the confidence that we recognise, understand and provide solutions to the concerns that live there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u408	I had the feeling that last night after his faux pass, Mr Zijlstra went tweeting again after a year and blamed D66 and GroenLinks for applauding him quickly that it was also his own rulers, of both colors, who applauded and therefore lived in the Chamber wider than just those two parties. Today, he's gonna put a shovel on top of it. I think you should always be a little suspicious of politicians who speak of 'if people look at this', because they are politicians who are out of the picture and pretend they are not part of it themselves. There's another way to look at it. Mr Zijlstra says that today people see the division between those two sides. The other 364 days, however, they see a cabinet looking in different directions on the same themes. Bed-bath-bread is about a thousand people. A clear problem almost led to a crisis in the Tower, kept us busy nights and is actually being neatly resolved today in the budget of 20 million. I would therefore like to present a mirror to Mr Zijlstra. I particularly invite him not to pretend to be outside this Chamber, because he is a part of it and even an important part of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u409	I'm not avoiding my responsibility here. Nor did I say this party or that party. I made it clear that it was Mr Wilders. I do consider myself to be part of the Chamber and of the solution to be found. However, I do see a contradiction. If a party, which is regarded by other parties as not too good, is to mention genuine concerns, albeit in a way that is not at all mine, then we need to talk about them. We shouldn't run from that. There is no point in applauding this, whether it be Mr Pechtold's party, Mr Klaver's party, the people in trade union K or myself. We are really sending the wrong signal to the Dutch. They look at us in this house and think: this is a big problem; stop this Hague stuff and solve it! I like what the Cabinet has done. There's lots of things. You can agree or not, but I've heard different solutions and solutions. Now let's do something. On that basis, let us have the discussion with each other. Let us get out of this trap that Dutch people, including in this house, have the idea that if they criticize what is happening on the one hand, they are racist and, on the other hand, they are civilized. That is not the case and should not be the case. We need to have this debate with all the arguments. That's what the Netherlands deserves.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u410	We did that last week and again this week. I agree with Mr Zijlstra that you should not come up with solutions that are black and white and that you say: we can tackle the refugee problem; we can close the borders. Last night there were no Dutch people here with worries; Mr Wilders was standing here. Mr Wilders has been provoking and disrupting us for ten years and is often trying to turn it into his own at the beginning of the debate. What happened? He went to name the places in the Netherlands where azc's are located. He did that as some kind of accusation. Part of the Chamber wanted to thank the people there and say to them: you understand with the same considerations that this is necessary. And you, Mr Zijlstra, were going to help Mr Wilders. And what happened? You got a blow back from him. Even your helping hand got scared! Ticked off. So we're not putting Wilders' voters away. We'll keep talking to them, all of them. But we have to deal with Wilders. You saw yesterday that if you help him, you'll get another bang, Mr. Zijlstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u411	I didn't help Mr. Wilders. He got the first tap from me and then the other because we shouldn't have that contradiction in this house. Mr Wilders' way of working is not mine, but he also addresses a number of issues that Dutch people are genuinely concerned about. We must be careful, I say to Mr Pechtold, that our own behaviour causes people to have to deal with a kind of division, a choice of: apparently there is no other route than either sitting entirely on one side or completely on the other side. I think there's a route through the middle. I see plenty of parties that want to follow these. Let's do that sometime, and let's get out of this craziness.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u412	If a list is read out again tonight with municipalities where azc's are or would be sitting I don't want to challenge anyone.I would clap again. You and I, Mr Zijlstra, have the luxury of talking about the long-term solution and redistribution in Europe, which is quite far away. But today there was just a concrete problem. Because of the number of refugees coming to the Netherlands, 750 places were still needed tonight. I think it is very good that there are municipal leaders who have to talk to those residents every day, who see what is needed, who engage in conversation with the residents and who still take responsibility for creating places. I just saw the message that 2,000 sleeping accommodations have been arranged. I think that our fellow politicians and the people in all those neighbourhoods and neighbourhoods where such an asylum-seekers' centre is going to be expecting applause. It's easy for us to talk. We can talk about what needs to be done in Europe or in the longer term, but they have to deal with it on a daily basis. That deserves a round of applause. I'm very glad the Prime Minister feels the same way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u413	I'm not saying these people don't deserve appreciation. Of course, I've heard a secretary of state who said he needs people like this, too. That's right. But as I have just said, we, as politicians, must be aware of what signals we are sending. The signal that was sent yesterday was wrong. It was ignoring a sincere concern that lives with many Dutch people. We have to keep an eye on them, too. That's my feeling. You may have a different feeling, Mr Klaver, but I think it is wise that we should try to remove that contradiction. I don't know if Mr Wilders is in on it. If you say you have your doubts about that, I can say that I do. But that hand goes for me both that way and that way. However, I should not look at Mr Roemer, because he is not in on it, and rightly so. But let's try and put this together. That's a nice challenge. Let's get into it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u414	I talked about it yesterday, and I'll do it again tonight. We face a great challenge to keep our society together. But when I see what local administrators are doing to achieve housing in a short time, what resistance they face and how they deal with it, I think that this requires nothing more and nothing less than our appreciation and that it is also worth applause in that sense. That is why I really do not understand why Mr Zijlstra is making this point in response to that applause. He's absolutely right: we're at a crucial moment. We must ensure that we do not live in two Netherlands. The Prime Minister pays tribute to all those local directors. Mr Zijlstra should do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u415	I'm getting a little gallic about suing three quarters of the Chamber because it doesn't belong to Mr Zijlstra's reasonable thinking. If anyone wants to clap for tough drivers, they can.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u416	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u417	If a secretary of state wants to call on directors to be tough, it's not polarizing, but then it's not clapping either. Seriously, stop this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u418	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u419	Thank you very much, Mr Zijlstra. I call Mr Buma of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u420	Mr. Chairman. It's okay to clap during my speech. Two full days we discussed the 2016 budget. Two days in which we saw the refugee crisis getting worse around us. At the end of the 1990s, when asylum seekers had to be taken up in tents in our country for the first time, then Secretary of State Cohen said that asylum policy exploded. The situation is more serious now than it was then. Our rule of law has a moral duty to take care of displaced persons, but society is now under irresponsible pressure. If solidarity is lacking in other European countries, the Netherlands itself will never be able to continue in this way, because our capacity also has a limit. The CDA supports the reinforced border controls that the Cabinet has carried out. The CDA also advocates that those who come here should not be given the heavy refugee status that gives them the right to permanent immigration to the Netherlands, but a lighter status for displaced persons. You get security, but if it's safe again in your own country, you have to go back. The CDA therefore advocates temporary reception rather than permanent status. I also repeat: the greater the refugee problem, the more necessary and inevitable it will prove to be to tackle the problem at the source in Syria. In the meantime, a week has passed since the adoption of my motion calling for action in Syria from the air; a week in which the cabinet is still thinking. The Prime Minister said that today. However, time does not stand still and the problem gets bigger every day. The only thing the Prime Minister and the VVD keep saying is that unbelievable talk about a future with dense European borders. I'll charge the Prime Minister with that, because it's a folklore. Not that much more needs to be done on reception in the region. That's what the whole room thinks. However, action should be taken. For example, the cabinet can do much more to put pressure on the Gulf States to take in refugees. However, I do not hear the Prime Minister about this. No, the Prime Minister is mirroring the Netherlands that he can finally ensure that no more asylum applications will be processed in this country. That's not true. He's fooling the Netherlands. During this debate it became clear that a European summit of Heads of Government will be held next Wednesday. You know, that summit the Prime Minister didn't think was necessary. As this summit continues, I would ask the Prime Minister whether he is going there and, if he is going there, whether he is prepared to make the commitment to the Chamber clear in advance. The chaos at the borders of Europe also affects our foreign and internal security. The CDA calls on the cabinet to look at defense from those glasses as well. There is an acute problem, which should not be solved in 2017 or 2018, but in 2016. A motion may be tabled shortly, and that will be supported by the CDA. Internal security may be even more under pressure. Mr Roemer has just tabled a motion signed by almost all the political groups. I think only two were missing. That says enough. The Justice budget is seen as far too oppressive and irresponsible. The Prime Minister replied lightly about this: we solve financial problems. However, that is not right. For example, what the Prime Minister sees as "efficient handling of real estate" is in reality closing a lot of courts. The CDA doesn't want that. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the case law in the proposed budget is placed under irresponsible pressure, which is reflected, inter alia, in a blow to seven courts;]] [[Considers that the 2013 revision of the Judicial Card agreed with the Chamber that 32 fully-fledged plenary sessions would continue to exist;]] [[calls on the government to comply with the commitments made with the 2013 Chamber and to preserve fully the courts in Almelo, Assen, Maastricht, Alkmaar, Dordrecht, Zutphen and Lelystad,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van Haersma Buma, Roemer, Klaver, Van der Staaij and Krol.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u421	I come to the cabinet's tax proposals, i.e. the 5 billion package. In response to a question from me, the Prime Minister indicated that the tax measure for lower incomes, the Liv, cannot be introduced by 2016. That was one of the things the CDA had just asked for. It's a shame this can't happen. I can't say otherwise. Of course, I have to understand if it doesn't work. The CDA therefore supports the core, and even more than the core, of the package. It broadly supports the 5 billion package as it now stands. I will say: this is a package as we would have seen it for ourselves. I hear colleagues who now all want to have great changes. That may be true, but for the CDA it is true: the more we deviate from it, the less chance the CDA can support it. I saw a number of colleagues looking back in despair from the interrupting microphone: had the CDA taken over the key to Mr Pechtold's back room? I'm sorry I don't have that key. I can also tell you that it is a blessing for democracy that I do not have that key. I don't want that key either. The CDA has indicated what it wants: it is prepared to support the 5 billion plan and if colleagues have other proposals, then they have to come up with it and then we will see how that goes in the Chamber. I'm gonna get on the property tax. The Prime Minister was, I must say, not very forthcoming when I asked for the 5 billion plan to be removed from the property tax proposal. I repeat: I urge the Minister to do so, because it is a shame to burden the debate on the 5 billion with a discussion on a more complex and unfortunate property tax proposal. I shall table the next motion for a resolution on this matter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the reduction of the burden on labour and the amendments to Box 3 are now dealt with jointly in a single legislative proposal;]] [[Whereas there is no justification for discussing these isolated changes in coherence, also in view of the fact that the changes within box 3 are fiscally neutral;]] [[calls on the Government, before the General Financial Reviews (AFB), to withdraw the adjustments within box 3 of the tax system from the Tax Plan 2016 and then to submit them to the Chamber as a separate legislative proposal after the AFB,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Van Haersma Buma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u422	And if it doesn't?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u423	I said in my text that it would be much more unfortunate to deal with the 5 billion plan if it included a large part that we do not agree with. How that's gonna end, I don't know. After all, I do not have that key, as Mr Pechtold knows. Perhaps the capital tax plan can still be radically modified, but I say to the cabinet here: be wise and do not let it come to you, because you do not have to make it in one single proposal. In fact, I say do not put pressure on the discussion by doing so. I would ask Mr Pechtold to support this motion so that we can deal with these two matters separately. That will also mean a significantly different discussion of the plan in the First Chamber, I suspect.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u424	That's what I'm guessing. It is interesting to see through the hairs of the eyes what the CDA wants around that first blank check. First, before the summer, Mr Buma wanted to sign without the plans for the 5 billion being clear. It didn't matter if it happened in a back room or wherever, that signature was signed. Now the CDA wants the power part taken out. It has also announced that there should no longer be any change in the coherence of the 5 billion. If there was extra greening in it, the CDA would drop out. This also applies if there are other changes. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u425	The funny thing is, since yesterday, I've been sitting in a garden chair, and you keep pruning. But there are no branches left at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u426	I'm just gonna sit in that lawn chair, 'cause I don't think it's a bad idea. You may prune whatever you want, but the garden does not get any better.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u427	Then I'm gonna chop it all up and get warm in the winter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u428	Exactly. The great agreement between Alexander Pechtold and the German emperor is their love for lumberchopping on the Utrecht Hill Ridge.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u429	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u430	That was the capital tax. I have already tabled the motion for a resolution on this subject. I come to the next point. Mr Pechtold will probably come to me again from his orchard, because he may agree with that point. There is a need for further reform of the labour market. It's a shame this isn't happening. I have just seen a motion from Mr Roemer and Mr Zijlstra, who call on the cabinet to work on abolishing pay-as-you-go payments in the second year. That is wise, because small businesses are no longer able to cope. The CDA will certainly support that, but it is not enough. That is why, together with Mr Pechtold, I am tabling the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Dutch labour market is not ready for the future;]] [[considers that further division of the labour market can only be avoided if the labour market is further reformed;]] [[calls on the Government to develop proposals for further labour market reform before the end of the year, which include at least the following elements:]] [[enabling, within the Participation Act, works with pay dispensation through municipalities;]] [[adapting the Work and Security Act to allow for the conclusion of multi-annual second employment contracts;]] [[to invest more in the training of workers through personalised training budgets;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Haersma Buma and Pechtold. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u431	I have noted the Prime Minister's commitment that there will be a vision for the future of the Social Affairs and Employment budget on the basis of the ibo report that has been published on this subject. I'm rounding up. Our society sees a lot of threats coming. There are barbaric, medieval wars on the edges of Europe. But we must realise that we also have a deeper crisis in our own country when it comes to preserving our values. It is our great mission to protect our society from the erosion of those values, by cherishing the values and norms that are based on our Jewish-Christian tradition. We must also remember that a strong society is not based on everyone's rights, but on duties towards each other. Not only what you can get from society, but above all what you can contribute to society counts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u432	Mr. Chairman. Above this debate over the last two days there has indeed been the dark cloud of the refugee issue. We talked a lot about the images that go with it. Yesterday and today new images were added, including confrontations on the Hungarian border and large groups of people seeking shelter. Today there was a call from the cabinet to municipalities to provide sufficient shelter. By the way, this has been successfully answered. We're all struggling with this subject. A lot has been said about it. To be honest, I think that most of the debate has been held here. Almost all parties tried to think along on a solution. From time to time, they shunned a bit about the solution that someone else suggested, but alla, that's part of the debate. And yet the impotence and polarisation that I was talking about yesterday sounded occasionally in the debate; just now again by the chairman of the VVD's group. Everyone has an uncomfortable feeling about this. I think there is a misunderstanding in the debate, namely that there is one group of people who think they should all disappear and another group who thinks you should take them all, while in reality each of us is struggling with both feelings. It was even Mr Wilders who said a week and a half ago: yes, the dead boy on that beach, that hurts me, that hurts me too. Even Mr Wilders, who we do not know of such texts, said so. Mr Wilders too, and certainly everyone else in this Chamber, is struggling with both emotions. On the one hand, the call for mercy, for real refugees to be sheltered, and on the other hand the concern associated with a very large stream of refugees, of which everyone who looks at them wonders whether that is going well. Do we even have a place to stay? Do we have a house and a job for the people who might be staying here permanently? If there are concerns and concerns, that's fine. If mercy is expressed and hospitality is shown, it is just as good. If hatred and division are sown, that is unacceptable. In most cases yesterday's debate went very well; at a number of times we failed miserably. That is actually unnecessary and disappointing for another reason. Those who look around in this Chamber must conclude that we are not currently discussing the final solution to this issue. It will have to be done in Europe, as Mr Buma said. Next week we will first have a JHA Council with the 'Klazen Dijkhoff' as I can say today, just like the Prime Minister today. Then there is the European summit. Like last week, I appeal to everyone in this Chamber, of course to the cabinet, but also to the parties here who are in political families in which a solution can be forced or at least helped, to actually do so. At present, countries such as Poland and other Eastern European countries are still opposed to the redistribution of refugees already in Europe. At the moment Italy and France are fighting about the way in which reception in southern Italy is to be arranged, who is to be dealt with and how redistribution should take place. Both countries are in my political family, so I have some work to do on Wednesday. But now that this Chamber has supported the cabinet's proposal to propose a balanced solution to the refugee problem for both the short and the long term, I hope that we will be able to focus on the other countries that still have to take one step in order to reach a solution. This debate was, of course, also about next year's budget and everything that goes with it. Many proposals have been made and discussed. Much has been said about the budget for security and justice. A broad-based motion has also been tabled on this subject. I agree with what Mr Zijlstra said about this. As this motion is now before us, it is complicated at all to give it a further form. It says that the necessary financial resources must be released. I think that is precisely where the crux lies: we do not know at the moment what 'the necessary financial resources' are. So I join with the appeal, and immediately pass it on to the cabinet, to say so, let me just break through the constitutional barrier and end the ghost debate on which proposals in the First Chamber could still count on a majority. The sooner we know, the better. I don't know if it's possible and I don't know how to do it, but that's exactly what you have the executive power for. I agree with the signatories of this motion that the inconvenience with this budget is great, and that it should not be increased, but reduced. Then let us try to clarify as quickly as possible where the financial risks are in that budget and how we can resolve them. My party is on his side to cooperate in this solution. I said it in my first term: the Netherlands is better now, but we are far from satisfied. This morning's figures actually showed exactly where the problem is. On the one hand, 8,000 new jobs have been created in the last month. So every working day, 400 people could find a new job. At the same time, perhaps encouraged by this economic growth, 8,000 people reported for a new job, with the result that unemployment has not fallen. These are two sides of the same coin of growing employment, but also a very good reason to work hard and ensure that more jobs are created. That is why we wholeheartedly support the tax plans tabled, because they focus on new jobs, i.e. more work, especially for people on low incomes. Without wishing to conclude too much now, I am glad that, if we look through our eye hairs, we may be able to see the possibility of a majority for parts of that tax plan. I spoke yesterday about the possibility and need to encourage more innovations in the Netherlands. I firmly believe that there is the essence of the solution for our future economy, for our work, for our earning ability and, above all, for our sustainability, so that our children too can enjoy the prosperity we have today. I am tabling a motion to give the idea of a Dutch innovation bank a little more form and to give it to the cabinet. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands is aiming for a fully sustainable energy supply in 2050;]] [[noting that innovative start-ups in the Netherlands are difficult to grow due to lack of capital;]] [[Considering that public authorities can play a leading role in this process by providing investors with the means to invest in the development of renewable energy on a large scale;]] [[calls on the Government to make proposals for the creation of a Dutch innovation bank to boost innovation and provide it with sufficient seed capital,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Samsom, Mr Van Haersma Buma and Mr Pechtold. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u433	We also discussed the follow-up to the revision of the judicial card: the Council's plans for the judicial system to remove the sites of a number of courts. That's not the right plan. That is the clear conclusion of the Labour Party. We want the Council to rethink the case-law and to involve more information and experience in the evaluation and then propose a better plan that has more support in the region, because we also need proper justice in the region and all the facilities for it. Mr Slob will be tabling a motion to this effect in the near future, which I warmly endorse. We have also talked about the need to adapt the first-year reception budget to this situation, as there are many more refugees coming to the Netherlands. In general terms, this commitment was already stated in last week's letter from the cabinet, but we believe that it is wise to give a little more direction. That is why we have also co-signed Mr Slob's motion. Finally. It has also been about the future in this debate. Then it is soon concluded, not only in the outside world but also in this room, that the VVD and the PvdA put another dot on the horizon. And that's right. You don't have to have studied for that; that difference is big enough. When both parties tell passionately about their future ideal, very different stories come out. That was the case four years ago and it is still the case now, but on the way we were obliged to each other and above all to the Netherlands to agree on what we are doing in the meantime. You'll have to do it together. I am glad that a lot of other parties have joined in on the way; sometimes they are also allowed to drop out, of course, for their magical reasons. However, the essence of politics in the Netherlands is still there I am happy to say that despite our great differences we always manage to find each other for solutions that are necessary to help the Netherlands one step further. The PvdA and the VVD succeeded and so will the PvdA and the VVD over the next year and a half; I know that for sure. I myself hope that there will be more parties in the next year and a half, because we are far from finished. For example, we have talked about employment and the issue of refugees. It takes the utmost of all of us to want and to be able to bridge the differences. This will benefit the Netherlands and we can move forward together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u434	Mr. Chairman. As I said yesterday: if anything has become clear in these General Political Reviews, then it is that this cabinet and this Chamber no longer represent the Dutch people. There's a huge catastrophe coming at us. The whole of the Netherlands feels it. The whole of the Netherlands sees it. The whole of the Netherlands is screaming for action. But the Chamber and the Cabinet aren't doing anything. Over the last two days, 1,400 asylum seekers have crossed our borders. What did the Cabinet do? The cabinet didn't do anything. There came a huge flood of words to say nothing and to cover up that nothing is happening at all. There is applause here in the Lower House; there is applause for the inclusion of asylum seekers by municipalities against the will of millions of Dutch people. How much crazier can it get? There is applause in this Chamber for something that is happening against the wishes of millions of Dutch people. And there is a laugh here in this House of Representatives; there is a laugh when it is said that we first have to think about our own people, about our own people. I think we are the only parliament in the world where a parliamentarians is laughed at when he says that we have to think about our own people first. That's telling.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u435	Where does Mr Wilders dare to say to 138 elected representatives that you no longer represent the people? Where does Mr Wilders get the guts to say that I am the people? 'Cause that's what he says. Where does he get this delusion of grandeur?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u436	It's hard for you to come out of your words, but I'm not saying that. I'm not saying that. What I am saying is that a group in the Chamber with twelve seats in this Chamber is saying that less than 10% of the Chamber says something that millions of Dutch think. The polls show that 50%, 60%, 70% of the Dutch think that asylum seekers should no longer come to the Netherlands and that a majority of the Dutch people think that we should close the borders. That's 50%, that's 60%. That means that the difference between this Chamber, this fake parliament, is because that is it: a fake parliament! Oh, and the people at home are life-size. And you may be living proof of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u437	You have to have the guts to say here in a country with such a democratic tradition that the parliament you are a part of is a fake parliament! You're sitting on 12 seats yourself. You yourself run a party in which you do not allow democracy, of which you are the only member. You lead a party in which two divisions have now occurred. You're running a party that's been sued again today because he just ripped off the greenhouse.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u438	Oh, come on! Please stop it!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u439	You lead a party far from democratic. I like that you're looking at polls. I think it's fantastic. I do that sometimes. But don't let it rise high in your orb. And don't go telling others in this parliament that they no longer represent what they are democratically elected to. That, Mr Wilders, we have seen too many times in history.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u440	Says the man whose party was about to be set up to defend the referendum, and who is now opposed to the referendum of GeenPeil. Who is now opposed to the GeenPeil referendum to question the treaty with Ukraine. If anyone is unbelievable in this house, Mr. Pechtold, you are.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u441	If anyone has made it possible for referendums to be held in this country, it is my party. And that's what we've been doing for the past 50 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u442	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u443	And yes, Mr Wilders, I would like to ask everyone to refer within the democratic rules if they so wish. Yes, Mr. Wilders. And that does not put the axe at the root of democracy, as you do by blaming your fellow representatives, who will never do that themselves, for being undemocratic. That has happened too often in history. And over and over again, if you think you can do that here, I will address you, because that is democracy. And you've understood the balls of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u444	Sure. Speaking of democracy, the first time that Mr Pechtold's bill can be put into practice, the first time that a referendum can be held on a treaty with Ukraine, Mr Pechtold says: no, it doesn't matter to me, don't matter to me. If anyone is a-democratic, Mr Pechtold, if anyone can't even spell the word 'democracy', then they are the dominoes of D66. I have already said that there is applause in this Chamber, Mr Pechtold. He applauds for something millions of people don't find. It's a fake parliament, a fake parliament that no one represents. Outside this Chamber people are distraught, people are afraid, because the Netherlands is being destroyed. Our people are being replaced by Islamic newcomers, who threaten our prosperity, our security and our identity. Our country will be one large asylum-seekers' centre. Government and parliament - this parliament that no longer represents the majority of the population - let it just happen. They are not even ashamed of it. This cabinet, which represents barely 20% of Dutch citizens, makes decisions that will fundamentally change the Netherlands for decades. We're being robbed of our identity. Our people will be replaced if we continue to do so, while it is crystal clear what we must do. We must, of course, protect ourselves. We have to protect our country. We must protect our people. We need to secure our country. You can, because the boundaries have to be closed. Every day we don't close our borders is a lost day. Yesterday was a lost day in that respect. Today is a lost day. I ask the Prime Minister: how many days lost do you think the Netherlands can afford? The Netherlands must be resisted. There's no alternative. We must resist. We need leadership instead of political cowardice. Violent resistance. Democratic resistance. Resistance to a cabinet and a Chamber abandoning the Netherlands. Resistance to a Prime Minister of the open borders. I call on all the Dutch, all of them: resist! Get up! Get up! Get up! Get up! Demand municipal referenda. Get out on the street. Demonstrate. It's your right, then do it. We must no longer have asylum-seekers' centres. The boundaries must be closed. They must be closed, Madam President, and that is my only motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government not to allow any more asylum seekers in the Netherlands and to close the Dutch borders immediately,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u445	Chairman. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his reply today, but also the rest of his cabinet. They were not only present, but were allowed to serve as a helpline from time to time. As a result, there were a little more promises every now and then than were in the text of the speech. Thank you for that. What I found a little bit yesterday has turned out to be: the shine is off. The cabinet is no longer on course. You can tell by a lot of things. I see less and less common goals and the cabinet also admits that the political courage has disappeared. I referred yesterday to the fact that I remember a broadcast of, at that time, Pauw and Witteman, which was then also a duo, in which the two gentlemen proudly said: we actually want to do this for eight years. Now the question is whether they want to sit the ride out. At least it's not an end in itself anymore. The hair cracks aren't even covered anymore. There is division on important issues. We have indeed discussed important issues here in the last two days. We have talked about the refugees. I agree with all those who say that there should be no fight about whether you are here for decent reception and distribution, with a fair distribution system in Europe, or that you should focus on safe regions there and safe care there. It has to be both. But I insist that, in one way or another, it has been delayed for far too long. That is why I say: if one can now, pick it up next week and let us deal with the other. There is also a division about how we solve unemployment. As far as I am concerned, there is a far too little ambitious plan for employment. Furthermore, I call climate and energy. Of course, it's fantastic when parties work together, but if you stick to an energy agreement from which the energy itself has been leaked, you buy little for that. Dealing with jihadists. I stand before the Prime Minister when he says that as Prime Minister he can have an opinion in this Chamber and then say: that is something that does not apply to my cabinet policy. We do not do that with the head of state, nor do we do that with rulers, especially in this Parliament. The Prime Minister is waving problems away. He talked about illusion politics, but he's in the middle of it, as far as I'm concerned. There's a lot of uncertainty. The two most important things we have identified here in recent days are the Tax Plan and the Justice budget. That is why much must come from the opposition's initiative, and we are also taking that initiative. I regret that the Prime Minister did not, today and yesterday, ensure that we could come up with concrete solutions. It is a pity that he postpones much to the General Financial Reviews and leaves it to the not less valued Minister of Finance. He's actually directing it. My party has shown alternatives. I am pleased with the warm words, even if I had to draw a little, which the Prime Minister spoke about. Our alternatives were basically: more jobs and less pollution. I also welcome the commitment I received on Minister Asscher's sectoral plans. If money is left from the third tranche, we are not going to immortally look in the fourth tranche, but we are mainly looking to see if the remaining money can be targeted to help older jobseekers get a job. I think that unites us all and I welcome that commitment. On behalf of my party, I have been able to table a number of motions from others. From Mr Roemer a motion on the budget for Security and Justice; with Mr Buma a motion on the modernisation of the labour market; with Mr Slob a motion on both the fiscal greening and the reception of first-year refugees and the financing of ODA; with Mr Klaver a motion on the education of children of refugees; with Mr Samsom a motion on the creation of the Dutch Innovation Bank; with Mr Klaver also a motion on the implementation of the judgment in the climate case and finally with Mr Thieme a motion on the mapping of the geopolitical effects of climate change. In addition, I have five motions of my own, which I now like to read. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is important for the many status holders in the Netherlands to have a full place in Dutch society;]] [[Whereas integration can be facilitated by participation in the labour market;]] [[calls on the Government to examine ways in which diplomas from countries of origin can be recognised in order to ensure that status holders are able to integrate into the labour market as soon as possible at their own level;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up a plan of action in which it is made clear to status holders what requirements they must meet in order to obtain recognition of their diploma in the event that these diplomas do not comply with Dutch standards,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Pechtold and Mr Roemer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u446	My second motion concerns the local tax area. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Dutch municipalities are almost entirely dependent on the Empire for their finances, while municipalities in countries around us have greater own financial responsibility;]] [[Whereas a wider local tax area promotes local democracy by increasing the influence of the electorate and the city council on local finance;]] [[Whereas a reduction in income tax by shifting taxes from the Empire to municipalities leads to more jobs;]] [[Calls on the Government to present concrete proposals for the reduction of income tax by Prinsjesdag 2016 at the latest, while extending the local tax area by 4 billion, so that this can be achieved from 2019;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the aim of appropriate education is to ensure that all children with a need for care receive appropriate education;]] [[noting that there are thousands of children at home because no appropriate educational location has been found;]] [[Whereas in many cases finding a good and appropriate place for children is not possible due to a lack of resources at primary schools in particular to bring about the right people and expertise;]] [[calls on the government to increase the budget for appropriate primary education by EUR 100 million and to finance this from the significantly increased external hiring budgets of departments,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Pechtold and Mr Van der Staaij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-16]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Pechtold and Mr Samsom. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u447	Since the Prime Minister said he would look at the motion for a resolution, it depends on the answer if I will apprehend her later. Just so he knows.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u448	We'll find out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u449	The next motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas large-scale deployment of insulation will boost employment in construction and industry and contribute to a reduction in CO emissions;]] [[Whereas investment is lagging behind because residents are wondering whether they live in their homes long enough to earn them back;]] [[calls on the Government to provide more jobs by isolating residential housing and also to explore the role of pre-financing from the energy saving fund;]] [[calls on the Government to involve the network companies,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Pechtold and Mr Samsom. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u450	Finally. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the two years of sickness pay for many entrepreneurs create a barrier to hiring staff;]] [[calls on the Government to come up with a solution for the second year of payment of wages in the case of sickness in small and medium-sized enterprises for the examination of the SZW budget,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Pechtold and Mr Van Haersma Buma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u451	Mr. Chairman. In the first place, I invited the Prime Minister to look into his political heart. Last night I asked him, "Where is your fire? What injustice do you set in motion? What do you think is valuable?" We heard the Prime Minister's term today, and I'll take it from myself that my invitation wasn't inviting. The Prime Minister didn't go into this. Then I asked him the supplementary question: how do you intend to work in the coming year in view of what has happened in recent months, which has made the support for this coalition very narrow? In the Lower House the coalition still has a majority of one seat and in the Upper Chamber there is a shortage of seventeen seats for a majority. This is historically low. I don't think this has ever happened that way before. We have heard the Prime Minister's first term today: he has not responded to this. What he has done is to answer concrete questions about all kinds of dossiers. I thank him for that. Although I must say that I found the answer on a number of subjects quite fluffy and sometimes even rather evasive. I hope this has not set the tone for the coming months. The issues we are dealing with at the moment are great. The issue of refugees has dominated the General Political Reviews. It'll come down to it now. The Prime Minister has the important role to play in this discussion, to connect in this approach and to show leadership. I wish him a great deal of wisdom in that. He's gonna need it. Another major issue, namely the climate issue, also requires leadership. I note with disappointment that this cabinet is going to waste its time and energy on appeal and all kinds of studies, while a very specific extra-targeted approach is lacking. That's too bad. It is important that the cabinet in the search for necessary support not only because of seats, but also because of the seriousness and extent of subjects, will soon look carefully at the motions submitted and, where possible, will allow for the adaptation of its own policies to the views of parties other than the coalition parties. Madam President, I have four motions that I have tabled for that reason and I have supported a large number of motions. I'm not going to mention them all separately. After all, my name is underneath it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that many households are improving in 2016;]] [[noting that, according to the Nibud, the income position of chronically ill and disabled persons is lagging behind;]] [[calls on the Government to come forward with proposals to provide financial support for chronically ill and disabled people as well as for parents with children with disabilities living at home;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Slob, Mr Van Haersma Buma and Mr Van der Staaij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-20]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u452	This was, like, a 17 seat motion and I have another one of those. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is a major challenge in achieving environmental and energy objectives;]] [[considers that the current burden package does not sufficiently address this issue;]] [[calls on the government to include fiscal greening measures in the burden package,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Slob, Mr Pechtold and Mr Klaver. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-21]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u453	We have talked about the budget for security and justice. We have also talked about the enormous weaknesses in this budget. Last Tuesday the cabinet sent us the budget and last Friday it was under embargo. I understand that two days later, the cabinet doesn't say it's all wrong. However, I believe that the members of the cabinet are deeply aware that there are enormous weaknesses and that something needs to be done. That is why we supported Mr Roemer's motion. I'll file a motion myself on the court. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Judicial Card Review Act entered into force on 1 January 2013;]] [[whereas the Multi-Year Plan of Justice 2015-2020 will be adopted on 28 September;]] [[considers that a well-founded decision on the reduction and location of courts is only possible if:]] [[there is more insight into the effects of the previous reorganisation after the revision of the judicial card and into the progress of the large automation process;]] [[the impact on the seven regions is clear;]] [[local authorities have been given time and space to develop alternative plans;]] [[invites the Government, in consultation with the Council for the Rechts on Decision-making and invites the Council not to take irreversible steps, taking into account the foregoing, and to report to the Court prior to the budgetary examination of the Ministry of Justice on the implementation of this motion,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Slob and Mr Samsom. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u454	Finally, I have a motion on the issue of refugees, the reception of refugees in the Netherlands, and our contribution to reception in the region where, as you know, most refugees are ultimately being received. That happens sometimes in very poor circumstances. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Notes that according to the UN Refugee Organisation UNHCR, a record number of nearly 60 million people worldwide are fleeing terrorism, war and cruel regimes;]] [[whereas the influx of refugees in Europe and the Netherlands may increase and therefore more money is needed for receiving refugees than is currently budgeted for 2016;]] [[Whereas the Cabinet intends to develop its proposals further and, where necessary, allocate additional funds for reception in the Netherlands and in the region;]] [[calls on the Government, to this end, to present the autumn note with proposals for the structural allocation of additional funds for first-year reception in the Netherlands in 2016 and reception in the region and to avoid the ongoing OS programme lines,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Slob, Mr Samsom, Mr Roemer, Mr Pechtold, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Klaver, Mr Klein, Mr Krol, Mr Thieme and Mr Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u455	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Prime Minister for the answers to the questions that have been asked. I'd like to compliment him, too. He's done an excellent job again, in the distinctive way. Even though the facts contradict him, he just keeps denying it. I think that's good. I think very few of us can do that so well. When he was first Prime Minister, he was often praised for it. He was called the "teflon prime minister." Everything's slipping away from him. But I can see a few scratches. It took a while, but it's not always taken away. The Prime Minister is here in the Chamber and questions are being asked about the estimates for the influx of refugees. Next year, 16,000 fewer refugees would be expected. The Prime Minister then knows how to look fantastic in the structures and systems we choose. And he seems to end up getting away with it, but I don't think that's gonna take much longer. The Teflon is really wearing off. I see that the Prime Minister is currently consulting with the Minister of Finance in Box K. It'll be about the Teflon wearout. What shall we do about it, he shall ask. I cannot imagine that there will be fewer refugees next year. I therefore find it unwise for the cabinet to say: well, we'll see how it goes and then we'll adjust it. That is why my name is under Mr Slob's motion. With this motion, we want to ensure that we are now simply going to arrange extra money for the reception of these refugees. The Prime Minister said again tonight what he said earlier in an interview. He said that serving the journey is a goal as long as it also produces important results; that is something that we are called upon to do in public administration. He's absolutely right about that. There are still so many important results to be achieved. However, I wonder if the Prime Minister is still in the mood. Is he still looking forward to it? In the end, he was doing quite well. I told you, he knows how to put it all into systems, he's talking about some estimates, and he's scattering some clichés here and there. But at the end of the day, he's standing here empty-handed. His beautiful package of 5 billion still cannot count on a majority. I think Mr Slob has the key in his hands. Two of his motions, I think, he called "seven seats." It's up to the cabinet to choose. In what way does it intend to obtain a majority for the plans it is now presenting? Let me be clear. As far as I am concerned, the cabinet chooses to green up these taxes and tackle the climate problem. My party has also put forward proposals for this. They are in our counter-budget and in our climate budget. It's high time for that, too. I find it really irresponsible that the Prime Minister, when it comes to the execution of the verdict in the climate case, is talking about another little investigation here and another little investigation there and about waiting. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Court has ruled that the Netherlands should reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 25% in 2020 compared to 1990;]] [[Considering that ECN and the Plan Bureau for the Environment indicate that 25% reduction is impossible by 2020 if measures are postponed for one year;]] [[calls on the Government to start implementing additional measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in 2016 and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Klaver, Mr Slob, Mr Pechtold and Mr Thieme. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-24]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u456	I also have a motion on the refugee children who come to the Netherlands and have to attend education. We've been discussing this. I also have a reply from the Prime Minister. I do not know what that answer is yet, but I would like to table the next motion on this. After all, we must ensure that the children who come here can at least receive good education. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that each child is entitled to good education and that the reception and training of refugee children requires special attention;]] [[Considering that the number of refugee children is increasing sharply and therefore the pressure on schools;]] [[whereas additional measures have been taken by the Cabinet, but these measures are no longer sufficient in the light of the currently rising numbers;]] [[calls on the Government to come forward with proposals for the budgetary treatment of Education, Culture and Science so that schools can provide adequate education for these children, and to make the necessary budget available,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Klaver, Mr Slob and Mr Pechtold. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-25]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u457	I have one more motion. I am very pleased that Mr Slob's motion on the budget that we have to settle for this year can, in my view, count on a majority. That motion was signed by me, too. I have another motion in this regard. I believe that the current system is unfair. If more refugees enter the Netherlands, according to the current system, this must be paid in full from the budget for development cooperation, i.e. the budget for the poorest in the world. The Prime Minister likes systematics. I am proposing to tackle this system of paying it out of the development cooperation budget. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the costs of first-year care for asylum seekers are financed from the Development Cooperation budget;]] [[Whereas these costs, and hence the cost of the development cooperation budget, have increased significantly in recent years;]] [[considers that this is undesirable;]] [[calls on the Government to adapt the system and to set a ceiling for the budgetary attachment of first-year asylum seekers to the Development Cooperation budget and to seek a different level of cover for other costs,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Klaver, Mr Slob, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Roemer and Mr Pechtold.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-26]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u458	Madam President. First of all, I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his reply. I would also like to thank all the other rulers for their patience to be here at these General Political Reviews; a long sitting. The refugee crisis was, of course, a prominent topic in yesterday's and today's debate. If people have seen the debate from start to finish, they will say: it is like the Netherlands! All the views on this issue have also been expressed in this Chamber. I believe that this is also necessary on such a subject. As a SGP, we are committed to a balanced course. If we simply lock the doors for all the people who are on the run, we fail in innability. It calls for our commitment to these people, first and foremost in the region itself, but also to those who are now coming to our country. However, if we open the door wide to anyone who is looking for a better future, we are equally unwise. Also the concerns about threatening integration problems should not only be taken seriously, they are also serious. In the past, for example, the influence of Muslim radicalism has been greatly underestimated, where Mr Wilders simply has a point. That has to be face to face. This requires alertness. There is no doubt that we will come to this by talking about it. I'm going to the budgets and the tax plan. The SGP has signed a number of motions which I will not explain here, including on the budget for Security and Justice. I myself would like to put forward three motions on subjects that we believe deserve attention because there is a real need for action in these areas, starting with the defence sector. Money is added, but that is not enough, and not just for future ambitions, as the Prime Minister stressed. It is sad what gaps have already been struck by the cuts. Elementary matters need to be put right: ammunition, spare parts, communications equipment, land robbers that need to be replaced and so on. Something is being done about that now, but more needs to be done. The urgency is great, hence the next, widely supported pressure-on-the-boiler motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that almost all international security analyses still show that the ambitions, permanence and the corresponding budget of the Dutch armed forces require a structural rethink;]] [[Considering that the Government has indicated its intention to focus on a positive break in the medium-term defence budget;]] [[Considering that the government has taken a step by allocating additional funds in 2016 and giving priority to strengthening the basic capacity of the armed forces;]] [[calls on the Government to take forward the follow-up steps outlined above in the context of the multiannual perspective, i.e.:]] [[further strengthening of basic preparedness;]] [[the reinforcement of the supporting operational units;]] [[targeted quantitative and qualitative reinforcement of combat units;]] [[the replacement of weapon systems;]] [[In other words, the government requests that the Van der Staaij motion be implemented (34000, No. 23) to continue vigorously in order to bring the level of defence spending into line with the level of ambition of Defence,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van der Staaij, Zijlstra, Van Haersma Buma, Slob, Wilders, Van Vliet, Van Klaveren, Klein, Krol and Houwers.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-27]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u459	Then I have another motion on the issue of the gap between single-earners and two-earners. This motion was co-signed by colleague Slob of the Christian Union and colleague Van Haersma Buma of the CDA. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in the case of an equal household income, earners pay up to five times more tax than two-earners;]] [[Whereas this may impede the freedom of choice and the provision of family care;]] [[calls on the Government to come forward with proposals to reduce this gap,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Slob and Mr Van Haersma Buma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-28]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u460	Finally, I would like to make a motion on family care. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that according to the National Insurance Panel, Mezzo's research shows that more than half of the carers are in financial difficulties or are even in short supply as a result of their care activities;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Chamber for the consideration of the VWS budget of the possibilities of providing better financial support for carers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Slob and Mr Van Haersma Buma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-29]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u461	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Prime Minister for his answers. He's spoken a lot and he hasn't said much. It has become clear that the cabinet has not found support for the necessary tax reforms. It has thus given itself a license of inability. The cabinet makes a ruling impression. The budget reserved for structural tax reforms is now being thrown into the crowd in hope of bliss. This cabinet's response to today's major problems, the refugee crisis and the climate crisis, is nothing but mop-up with the tap open, in which coalition partners cannot agree on the colour of the mop. The Throne speech states that the flow of refugees does not tolerate a wait-and-see attitude and that an integrated approach is needed that takes account of all relevant factors. The UN, NATO, IPCC, G7 and Global Military Advisory Council on Climate Change point out that climate change increases the risk of international instability, conflicts and insecurity by causing drought and famines and strengthening the circle of poverty and economic malaise. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that more and more people are fleeing conflict and violence that are at the root of deeper causes;]] [[noting that the flow of refugees requires an integrated approach that takes into account all relevant factors;]] [[Whereas experts and international bodies point out that not only religious violence but also climate change, raw material extraction, trade and tax policies and arms supplies contribute to the increasing instability in vulnerable regions;]] [[Considering that the United Nations expects tens of millions of climate refugees by 2020;]] [[calls on the government, the effects of climate change, trade and tax policies and arms supplies on stability in vulnerable countries and regions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Thieme, Mr Roemer, Mr Klaver, Mr Pechtold, Mr Kuzu and Mr Krol.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-30]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u462	The cabinet is going to pay for the refugee shelter from the development funds. This puts even more pressure on the budgets of Dutch development organisations. That's incredibly short-sighted. This creates the huge risk of increasing refugee flows from people who can no longer be helped. How does such a policy plan relate to the claim that the cabinet wants to seek more reception in the region? That is my question to the Prime Minister. In the speech of the throne, it says that a waiting attitude is intolerable. How does the cabinet prevent waiting? How does that relate to the fundamental contradictions between the PvdA and the VVD at this point? I'm getting to the climate. The court's historical ruling on the government's climate policy requires the government to take action. Since 2008, the added value of a climate law has been regularly discussed. March this year Finland, after the United Kingdom and Denmark, as a third country, adopted a climate law in the EU. Norway, Ireland and France are already working on it. There's been one in Mexico since 2012. Such a climate law is a framework law. It regulates and sets out the targets for greenhouse gas reduction, rather than the measures or policy instruments to be used. It's left to the government. A climate law strengthens a climate agreement or an energy agreement because government commitment shows, for example, that industry will also dare to make risky investments and innovations. The House of Representatives is given an effective control tool to monitor progress. This is also how we can prevent climate law cases. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that combating climate change is one of the greatest challenges of our generation;]] [[noting that the court has ruled that the Netherlands should do more to comply with international climate agreements;]] [[Whereas a climate law may be supportive in order to achieve the long-term objectives;]] [[calls on the government to come forward with a proposal for a climate law,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Thieme and Mr Klaver. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-31]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u463	Madam President. I thank the Prime Minister for answering our first-term questions. It is clear that after many sour years, this cabinet does not hand out the sweet. Hundreds of thousands of pensioners and benefit recipients give in purchasing power. We're gonna fight to fix that. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the reduction of charges of EUR 5 billion leads to an increase in purchasing power of 2.5% for employed persons and only 0.2% for pensioners in 2016, which makes pensioners not share proportionally in the reduction of charges of EUR 5 billion;]] [[whereas this does not refer to the "equal purchasing power development" which the government claims to represent;]] [[also considering that older people have shared in "the acid" of burden increase and are now entitled to a proportional share of "the sweet";]] [[calls on the government to ensure equal and fiscal equity for pensioners in the structural tax reduction of EUR 5 billion,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to fulfil the principle of "equal purchasing power development" for all sections of the population,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-32]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-33]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u464	A letter was sent today in the Volkskrant by Mr Van Marle. The title of this penetrating letter is As an older unemployed person I am tired of humiliation. It'll keep you quiet. The letter illustrates that combating older people's unemployment must be given the highest priority. I'll hand over the letter to the Prime Minister later. Older people's unemployment is a huge problem. That's why I'm tabling two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas older people's unemployment is a major social problem for which the government does not have a ready-made solution;]] [[whereas more than 150,000 people from 45 years up to the age of AOW have been unemployed for longer than one year;]] [[calls on the Government to organise, by the end of 2015, a national conference with employers, employees, UWV, elderly organisations, experts and other relevant stakeholders to pool and discuss all ideas and initiatives that can contribute only a little to solving this problem in order to achieve a targeted approach, including all Lower Parliamentary Groups,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-34]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u465	The next motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas persistent unemployment, including that of older people, deserves a stronger approach;]] [[Whereas the age limit for the reduction scheme for employers taking on an older worker with a WW, welfare or disability allowance has been increased from 50 to 56 years since 1 January 2015;]] [[calls on the Government to return the age limit for the said scheme to 50 years,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-35]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u466	Furthermore, we want to have the household allowance permanently removed. We hope that the PvdA will support that proposal this time. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Cabinet intends to introduce the household allowance for AOW beneficiaries as of 1 January 2018;]] [[calls on the Government to permanently withdraw the household allowance for AOW beneficiaries,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-36]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u467	Finally, I am concerned about the shortage of housing, especially for older people. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the shortage of housing, in particular for the elderly and those in need of care, is acute;]] [[Whereas the transition agenda for Langer has so far had insufficient effect on its independent living;]] [[Whereas more coordination and action is needed to achieve results;]] [[calls on the Government to take the lead in consultations with all the parties concerned so that good and structural results can be achieved in the short term, steering them and not shy away from unorthodox measures,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-37]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u468	Mr. Chairman. This debate makes one thing clear: in politics, The Hague, we are lagging behind the reality of society. We can see that in the refugee stream, for example. Society shows its heart. The relief actions for refugees are shooting like mushrooms out of the ground. The majority does not think that the borders should be closed at all. The Dutch sing welcome songs. The Dutch want to take refugees into their homes. The Dutch show their mercy, their solidarity. That makes me proud to be Dutch. I'm not proud of the way the cabinet treats the social minimums. It is true of reality, because it has divided that 5 billion in load relief so well. However, the only people who deserve a plume are the minima. After all, the social minimums are those who have really had to face and endure the crisis. It is now very important to show solidarity with each other. Where society shows its heart, the Chamber must not be left behind. All Dutch people must benefit from the economic recovery, especially those who have suffered the most from it. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the King stated in the Throne speech that for pensioners and people with benefits, purchasing power is maintained;]] [[noting that figures from the Nibud and from page 69 of Macro Economic Recognition show that this is not the case;]] [[Whereas, with the increase in the target of the highest tax base, the government has also opted for the allowance to higher incomes;]] [[instructs the government to come forward with a proposal for purchasing power for people with benefits and pensioners for the budgetary treatment of Social Affairs and Employment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-38]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u469	We need to help each other where necessary, and not rule out anyone. We must stand for our fundamental values: justice, solidarity, mercy, equality for all, even for those who are not yet Dutch, without double standards. The Netherlands belongs to all of us. Get used to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u470	Mr. Chairman. This cabinet is not the solution to the problem. This cabinet is the problem. Our freedom, prosperity and security are not increasing this year with this cabinet but decreasing. Also next year, our country will not be doing well: more than 600,000 unemployed, a public debt of 466 billion and a continued influx of asylum seekers. Next year, with an income tax of 52% and even a progressive capital tax in the foreseeable future, the Netherlands will remain a country of socialism steeped in. The Netherlands needs low taxes more than ever before. Income tax, box 2 tax and excise duty should be substantially reduced. This means much more purchasing power, much more economic growth and much more jobs. In short, low taxes lead to much more prosperity. In addition, we want to invest 1 billion more in police and security services and 5 billion more for our defence. The Netherlands is looking for a strict immigration and asylum policy. We have to take asylum seekers in our own region, not here, not in our country, not in the Netherlands. 5,000 asylum seekers per week is far beyond our absorption capacity. The asylum policy of this cabinet is totally irresponsible. The effects on both the short and long term are incalculable. This cabinet puts the Netherlands at risk under unchanged policies. I shall therefore table the following three motions for resolutions. The first is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that thousands of asylum seekers are currently entering the Netherlands per week;]] [[Whereas this has and will have a major social and economic impact on society;]] [[Whereas the Dutch absorption capacity is not infinite;]] [[calls on the Government to state the maximum number of asylum seekers that it considers the Netherlands can handle,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Klaveren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-39]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u471	The second motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the current influx of asylum seekers exceeds the absorption capacity of our country;]] [[Whereas the Cabinet has indicated that no permanent border controls should be imposed;]] [[whereas the arrival of asylum seekers in our country should therefore be discouraged in another way;]] [[noting that Denmark has given a place to discouragement in its asylum policy;]] [[noting that the Netherlands may discourage the arrival of asylum seekers in our country by reducing the allowances for asylum seekers and removing the priority arrangements for asylum seekers in housing and the reimbursement for recreational courses;]] [[calls on the government, following Denmark, to give discouragement a place in the Dutch asylum policy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Klaveren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-40]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u472	I'm coming to the final motion. In any case, I expect support from the group of the VVD. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government, the German Chancellor, at the extra European summit to stop its inviting words about refugees,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Klaveren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-41]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u473	Mr. Chairman. Free-minded politics is opting for participation by and as close to people as possible. Not centralism, but trust in the city and the county. Not for nothing are most local parties there. Together they are also the first party of the Netherlands. So I say yes to care decentralisation with customisation, but municipalities must be given financial space. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the cabinet had previously subscribed a scaling-up discount with the idea that municipalities would have to merge and that this would generate 975 million;]] [[Considering that two years ago the cabinet abandoned the attempt to scale up municipalities to 100,000+, without, however, removing this structural reduction;]] [[calls on the Government to refrain from the scaling-up discount for municipalities,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Klein. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-42]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u474	If the municipalities are reduced, they will create additional room for taxation. Mr Pechtold has tabled a very good motion on this. This also leads to a deterioration in people's purchasing power, because the burden relief we give here will then be taken away by the municipalities again. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that municipal charges are increasing as a result of additional discounts on the social domain budget;]] [[whereas the increases in municipal levies have a negative effect on purchasing power, but this has not been reflected in purchasing power figures;]] [[calls on the government to draw up a purchasing power review in which the municipal levies have been taken into account and to send it to the Lower House,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Klein. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-43]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u475	I don't need any more time, Mr. Chairman, so be it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u476	You didn't have much more. Thank you very much, Mr Klein. Before I suspend the sitting, there are three changes. At the Roemer/Zijlstra motion in part No. 8 are added some names, namely Pechtold, Van Haersma Buma and Samsom. In connection with this, the Pechtold/Van Haersma Buma motion in part No. 19 withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u477	The Prime Minister will now begin his second term, in which he answers the questions that remain open, to a number of commitments and responds to the motions tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u478	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to inform you of the following, as a result of my discussion with Mr Samsom on the collective agreement for the police. The Minister of Security and Justice will invite all police unions tomorrow for a discussion to reach a breakthrough in the police-cao deadlock. So that invitation will take place tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u479	That could be good news, although we still have to wait and see. In my second term, I already asked whether this is an open consultation, whether the cabinet is creating blockages in advance or whether principles are being used, such as the wage agreement that has already been agreed. Maybe the Prime Minister can go into that now. Is there a blockade in advance or is the cabinet actually opening that conversation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u480	Frankly, I have nothing to add to what we discussed in the first term. In particular, I would like to stress that it is not going to be helpful if we are on the employers' side, because we are all here; the cabinet is an employer and the parliament has now begun to negotiate in public. I note that this will take place tomorrow. I would say: let us have positive expectations of that. What I'm saying about that doesn't add up. Or maybe so, but I don't think that's wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u481	I think so, because the Members of Parliament have said in large numbers that a solution must be found. There can only be a solution if the person who's going to negotiate just opens up that conversation. I'm not saying there should be this or that, but I'm saying we should open up that conversation without any blockades. That's all you have to say. If that is not the case, then the enthusiasm for that conversation is quickly gone, because we all know what is happening. I would therefore like to hear confirmation from the Prime Minister of this open attitude, because the wish is almost universally supported. Is the cabinet gonna open up?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u482	I'm gonna repeat what I just said. I think this is really unwise. I thought Mr Roemer was actually trying to find a solution. I'm still holding up the thought of him wanting to. Words like "open," "blockades" are words of meaning. I have also experienced these things in collective bargaining in business, and now we see this on the government side. So all these words have meaning. If you really want to pull off such a stalled negotiation, then it doesn't make much sense if I reflect on all the terms Mr Roemer used. I note that the Minister will send that invitation to all the unions tomorrow. Let's assume that this is a success.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u483	So there's been an invitation. Do we know if the unions will respond to that invitation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u484	We're gonna wait and see, but I promised you I'd catch you up as soon as possible if there were any new developments. I thought that would be written, but this is faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u485	I sincerely hope that will happen, because I think it is incredibly important that the parties meet again. I also think that the cabinet doesn't just send out an invitation. And I think you too have no desire but to try to get out. That is why I say to the Minister of Security and Justice: move on now!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u486	Now the few other things that have remained remain, partly from the first term of the Chamber and partly from the previous term of the Chamber. I start with the training of refugees: how is it arranged? Refugee children are entitled to education. This requires a lot of schools, especially with the increase in asylum seekers that we are seeing now. In both primary and secondary education, there are, in addition to regular funding, special arrangements to provide schools with additional financial resources. On 2 June 2015, the State Secretary of OCW sent a letter to the House of Representatives. He discussed the existing arrangements and indicated that he would adapt existing arrangements so that they would be sufficiently flexible to cope with the flow of refugees and that schools would also receive sufficient funds for new entrants during the school year. These schemes cover the vast majority of schools. In some cases there is a special situation due to a very large influx of refugees, for example when a new asylum-seekers' centre is set up in the immediate vicinity of a school. In such cases, the Ministry of Education is working on customization to support these schools, including financially. As a result of recent concerns, the Ministry of Education, the COA, the Association of Dutch Municipalities and the Sector Councils are working together on additional measures to ensure that children are integrated into school as best as possible and to prepare schools for the new influx. The whole task involved is far from always financial, but above all practical. How can you respond as soon as possible to the arrival of new children in the classroom? Where do you get good teachers and experts? How do we ensure such communication between the municipalities, the COA and the schools that better anticipate these developments? In short: it requires the necessary, especially in practical terms, but we are helping schools to receive refugee children. The spokesperson of the Christian Union has asked whether the tax burden for single-earners is balanced against that for two-earners. In general, it is logical that in a progressive tax system someone with an income of €40,000 pays relatively more tax than someone with an income of €20,000; otherwise it would not be a progressive tax system. The example in which only earners pay five times more tax than two earners is an extreme example, which is not very common in practice. The facts are that the average tax burden for the sole earner this year is 24.7%, i.e. almost 25%, and for the two earner 21.6%, i.e. almost 22%. It is true, therefore, that only earners pay a little more tax, but not five times as much. Next year the tax burden for both groups will fall, with the tax burden for single-earners indeed falling less than that for two-earners. We regard this as a responsible development within all ranges. Mr Slob of the Christian Union has also asked whether there is a balanced relationship between the purchasing power development of chronically ill and those of non-chronically ill. In the first term, he asked about the Nibud. We have searched and found and discovered that the Nibud has looked at the purchasing power development of chronically ill. Mr Slob also referred to this. The Nibud has made a distinction between chronically ill who do not call on the Wmo and chronically ill who do. This shows that the purchasing power development of chronically ill who do not use the Wmo is similar to that of non-chronically ill. That seems balanced to me. According to the Nibud, the purchasing power of chronically ill people who do call on the Wmo is deteriorating. We know, of course, that the policy around the Wmo has been transferred from the Empire to the municipalities because municipalities are better able to provide customised services through the Wmo and the special assistance. That is also covered by the budget. The fact is that the Nibud has not taken into account the customization that municipalities can provide. Municipalities have an important responsibility in this respect, of course. Depending on customization, the purchasing power development of chronically ill can be more negative but also more positive than that of other groups. I think it's a good idea to use that nuance. I'm getting to the Green Draeck. That's a big step, from sick to a yacht and from the Christian Union to D66. Defence, in cooperation with an external expert, has found that the regular maintenance budget of €51,000, previously charged to the Defence budget on the King's budget, is insufficient to carry out the necessary maintenance. For this reason, a total amount of €95.000 is estimated for a multi-year period. The cover for this was found within the defense budget. So the whole of the state budget is not going to go up. I see that Mr Pechtold is standing at the interrupting microphone to ask a supplementary question, but I might be able to hold him off if I give him some background information first; that might be good. The external expert's report shows that every year at least nearly €60,000 excluding VAT is required for standard maintenance. I see Mr Pechtold laughing. Of course, we're all getting a little tired at the end of the day, but I'm just gonna read the whole story here anyway. The VAT included is €71,000. In addition, a total of €110,000 is estimated for large maintenance over several years. Experience from the Marine Company shows that annual expenditure on standard maintenance is not only incurred, but also needs corrective and additional maintenance every year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u487	I'm in Friesland sometimes and I see these boats there. I've seen footage of De Groene Draeck, too. I don't have a boat, but there are Dutch people who have a boat like that. I can't imagine these people spending a ton a year to support a boat like that. And then in 2005 €416,000 was spent for large maintenance. €416,000!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u488	It's a very nice ship!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u489	You can sail a whole fleet of them. Those are the amounts we have on the entire defense budget about... it's now getting close to the JSF!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u490	Cultural heritage.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u491	We also need to treat the royal family's budget seriously. Now I think the Green Draeck has given rise to a lot of fuss over the last ten years. Palaces that were too expensive, each time they exceed, amount to what we all said: this cannot be done! I like that we gave that boat to the last majesty at eighteen, but if we're stuck with it for this kind of amount for eternity, then I think it's a gift that I'm thinking of: give it all!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u492	I do not believe that that is a thought which, on the other hand, evokes a great deal of enthusiasm.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u493	I'd like to explain a little bit more about how it might be that...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u494	Yeah, I'm gonna say more.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u495	Oh, you have more explanations. Then I'm listening.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u496	I'm armed to the teeth. Mr. Chairman. I need a short break.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u497	Mr. Chairman. Is it conceivable that we should take this matter off in writing?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u498	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u499	Very well, thank you for understanding! I just needed a short break. I thought the transition from the chronically ill from the Christian Union to the Green Draeck was a bit too intense. In all seriousness, Mr Buma has asked a question about the European Council. I can tell him I'm going there, of course. I also said that I had contact with my German colleague this morning to see how we could use this European Council, apart from the question of quotas and redistribution, to settle all kinds of other issues. This could also fit very well in the construction process, with the JHA Council on Tuesday and the European Council on Wednesday. The question is then of course: what is the Dutch commitment? The Dutch commitment is the letter of 8 September, on which we held a debate last week and also discussed it in detail these days. Mr Krol has asked whether the household allowance is now finally off the table. It is true that older people have had to deal with several policy changes since 2015, including in the context of decentralised public administration. As little is known about the relationship between family care, the formation of new household compositions and income benefits, further research is appropriate. Therefore, the cabinet decided to postpone the introduction until 1 January 2018. Mr Slob asked a question about my speech on the occasion of the commemoration of the Japanese capitulation on 15 August. The speech I made on 15 August last on the occasion of the commemoration of the Japanese capitulation 70 years ago also prompted the VWS Committee of this Chamber to ask the cabinet for further consultation. In that speech, I regretted that the Indian community remained unaware of the lack of understanding among others about the horrors of war in Asia. In doing so, I have asked for continued attention to and an active reminder of this part of our history. It is precisely in view of all these feelings that I think it is important to conduct the discussions carefully and well prepared, in the knowledge, moreover, that the solution does not exist. The past cannot be undone and the feelings in the Indian community are diverse. Let's establish that, too. I think that consultation with the committee is the logical and appropriate place for this. I would particularly like to refer to that consultation. If Mr Slob agrees with me, then I shall have to deal with the various motions. The motion in part No. 6 by Mr Roemer and others on the Justice budget. We have listened carefully to the concerns in the Chamber. I have also listened carefully to the reactions of the group chairmen of the two coalition parties, Zijlstra and Samsom. At the same time, I note that this motion has no cover. I reject this motion because we support the budget. I would add that I have listened carefully to the comments made by the group chairmen of the coalition parties. The Roemer motion in part No. 7 is about hour-invoice attention. The government is asked to shape the investment in such a way that there is not an hour-invoice attention and to remove the planned austerity in 2017. I don't recommend that motion. There's no cover to cut the cut. However, I must say to Mr Roemer that we will do everything we can to ensure that care is not bureaucratic, with people's attention. I discussed this in the debate with a number of spokesmen on the issue of care. The motion-Roemer c.s. in piece No. 8 deals with consultation with business organisations on the second year's pay-back in the event of illness. This is addressed in the cabinet position on IBO-zzp, which will appear well before the examination of the SZW budget. I shall leave this motion to the House. The Roemer motion in part No. 9 I would advise against referring to the debate we have had on this issue. The motion-Van Haersma Buma c.s. in piece No. 10 is about the different courts. This costs 30 million structuralally. There's no cover in this motion. I do not think that we should finance empty spaces either. I shall come back to this subject in the motion for a resolution on item No. 22. It's touching the same theme. As the motion is now before us, I would like to dissuade her. I ask Mr Buma, his motion in part No. 11 to the General Financial Reviews. That gives us the opportunity to understand in the meantime with his talent about the precise design of this capital efficiency levy. Otherwise, I'm gonna have to dissuade the motion. I find her untimely now, but perhaps it is best to hold the motion until the General Financial Reviews, which will take place in two weeks' time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u500	I've been talking to our tax conscience for a while. I don't have that myself; I need to have a meeting for that. It is agreed; we will continue this motion until the General Financial Reviews.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u501	At the request of Mr Van Haersma Buma, I propose his motion (34300, No. 11), as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 40/94 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the common organisation of the market in fruit and vegetables. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u502	I really have to respond nuancedly to the motion-Van Haersma Buma/Pechtold on piece number. 12. The third point, focusing on increased investment in the training of employees through personal training budgets, is looked at. The second point, the adaptation of the WWS for multi-annual second employment contracts, is strictly contrary to the social agreement. Mr Asscher is looking, in consultation with the social partners, at whether there is anything possible. The first point is really contrary to the social agreement. Because the first point is really in breach of the social agreement, the second point is still uncertain and we are still working on the third point. Because of the first point, it would certainly be contrary to the social agreement. But once again, I would like to explain that we are discussing the second and third indents. Then I come to the issue of the Dutch innovation bank. The motion Samsom c.s. in piece No. 13 refers to this. I would ask the author to hold the motion until the budget for Economic Affairs is discussed. We support the objective of the motion. I think it is right to discuss them in greater detail during the budget debate, also because there is currently no cover for this motion. I have already discussed this in my first term in the debate on the interruption with Mr Samsom.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u503	The motion will be ill-spoken, but I would have liked it to lead up to the EZ budget, as an order now to come up with something better when we discuss it. That's why there doesn't have to be any cover at all. I'm just very curious about the creativity of the entire cabinet to come up with something beautiful later. If there's anything else necessary, we'll see about that. At least I'd like to start the process right now. There's not a day to lose.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u504	Then I would like to say: do not put the motion to the vote, because I must now discourage its adoption. Mr Kamp says that he now knows that this will be a major issue in dealing with the EZ budget and he undertakes to think about it. However, he will not be able to find cover for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u505	I'd like to be more specific. If I'm gonna withdraw a motion, I'm gonna have to come back with something.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u506	Mr. Kamp's windpower.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u507	That is good, the wind power, but then turned into paper, into a letter that will reach us by then, so that we can discuss it well in the budget debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u508	Agreed. Mr. Chairman. I understand that the motion has been withdrawn, but of course I cannot say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u509	Of course, I have to say something about that motion. I shall hold the motion until the end of the day, because of course there will be a letter in its place.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u510	At the request of Mr Samsom, I propose his motion (34300, No. 13), as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 40/94 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the common organisation of the market in fruit and vegetables. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u511	That's right, and if there's a letter, that motion won't be necessary anymore. The Wilders motion in part No. Fourteen I advise. The Pechtold/Roemer motion in part No. I leave 15 to the Court's judgment. It's good to investigate this. If the motion succeeds, the answer can be included in the letter which the Minister for Social Affairs had already promised more broadly on this issue. Also for the Pechtold/Van der Staaij motion in part No. 16 is the Court of Justice. The Pechtold/Samsom motion in part No. 17 relates to appropriate education. I would like to say a few words about this motion. As I said in my first term in response to several questions, the Secretary of State of OCW takes these signals extremely seriously and will inform the Chamber at the end of this month about the additional actions he is launching. Moreover, I have to say that it is only a question of whether this is directly a question of money. That doesn't seem to be the problem here. As far as cover is concerned, we are of course all thinking of D66 voters in a large leasing car when it comes to external hire, but this is just temporary workers. So be careful to cut in here like this. That cover is vulnerable. I see Mr. Pechtold getting up. That was entrapment, sorry, Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u512	My co-signator Samsom said we're just gonna put the motion to the vote and we're gonna see how that goes. But I thought that was a little too rough. So far, I'm doing it with the pledges and I'm holding the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u513	At the request of Mr Pechtold, I propose his motion (34300, No. 17). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u514	The motion in part No. 18, also from this duo, makes a lot of mess. Let me be honest: the cabinet cannot oversee this at the moment. I will only highlight one element: network companies must keep to their tasks and not compete with private companies. Besides, the motion isn't covered. So I'd like to suggest to the motion in part no. 18 to deal with the EZ budget, otherwise I must advise her not to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u515	I'll hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u516	At the request of Mr Pechtold, I propose his motion (34300, No. 18). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u517	I'm coming to the motion Slob c.s. in piece No. 20. I have just responded in detail to Mr Slob's first term on the issue of chronically ill and disabled people. Against this background, I would like to discourage this motion, apart from the question of coverage. The motion Slob c.s. in piece No. 21 calls for fiscal greening measures. It would be my suggestion to keep it to the General Financial Reviews and to involve it in the discussion there. We have talked about this before today. So my suggestion is to take that motion and deal with it there. Otherwise, she's really untimely and I have to dissuade her. It seems to me to be by far the best way to deal with this issue in the General Financial Reviews. I come to the Slob/Samsom motion in part No. 22. If I may interpret the motion in such a way as to look at the current state of affairs and not to wait until the current routes are completed in 2018, so that the mandate remains standing, then the motion is Chamber's judgement. Otherwise, it costs 30 million a year. If I can read that motion like that, I'll leave her judgment room. That is at least my interpretation of that motion. The motion Slob c.s. in piece No. 23 calls for proposals for additional structural resources. That motion is not covered and it is contrary to the current system. This morning, I think, we had a very extensive discussion before lunch. I say once again that if it is necessary to provide additional resources in spring or autumn notes, we will not leave people on the streets at the end of the day, and that will have to be done. However, as the motion now stands, I cannot help but dissuade her. The Klever motion in part No. 24 on the execution of the judgment in the climate case, I would advise against, also with reference to the debate we have had on this issue. That will not surprise Mr Klaver. The cabinet believes that this should be done very carefully and that we need to look at the time frame for the technical possibility, which can be legally designed in the Netherlands and so on. Among other things, we join the IBO-CO2. I'm dissuading the motion. The motion in part No. 25 is about training for children of refugees. I have already responded to this issue in the debate on another motion. On 2 June, the Secretary of State of OCW informed the Chamber about an extension of the existing arrangements, so that they are sufficiently flexible for the greater flow of refugees. In special situations, OCW provides customization. I've already told you all that. The motion is therefore superfluous and I therefore advise against it. The motion in part No. 26 hits the same system as the motion in part No. 23 I just treated. For the same reasons, I advise against the motion in part No. 26. The motion in part No. 27 is policy support. I'll leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u518	I notice a policy change with the Prime Minister. Most of the time, he dissuades motions when they're policy support. Now he leaves the judgment to the Chamber. That's useful to know for next time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u519	The motion in part No. 28 is about freedom of choice and the provision of family care. We have had a wide-ranging debate on this. The debate will undoubtedly return to debates on the tax plan. As the motion has now been formulated, I advise against it. That will be understood by Mr Van der Staaij in the light of what I said about it in the first term. The motion in part No. 29 lacks financial coverage. The municipalities are responsible for supporting carers. 100 million is available per year through the Wmo budget. We are currently fully engaged in motivating municipalities to work on a good support for carers. I reject the motion, also in the light of this afternoon's discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u520	This motion is about informing about the possibilities that would exist for a concession. To say there's no cover, I think it's a little premature. Maybe that could come out in that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u521	In that case, we agree that it must be done within the existing budget. If Mr Van der Staaij puts it in such a way that it is within the existing budgets, we can write a letter to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u522	So it's up to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u523	Yes. We'll explain in the letter what's going on. So it doesn't cost any extra money.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u524	Or is it a promise and can the motion be withdrawn with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u525	I think the motion can be withdrawn. That saves the moods again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u526	If it gets hard, you can make it easy. Just read what's in the motion and let's vote on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u527	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u528	Then we know that we will put a letter to it when the motion is adopted. We will also send him if the motion is not passed. We simply execute her by means of a letter in which we explain how the system works.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u529	But we'll vote on it!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u530	We're gonna vote on it anyway. I'll come to the motion in part No. 30. This is about climate change. Mrs Thieme and I have already spoken about this. If there are no policy points on these issues, I find it complicated for the Cabinet to make these kinds of commitments. It really seems to me to be a task of expert think tanks. The government shouldn't want to sit on that chair. I would also point out that planning agencies and the CBS regularly carry out sustainability surveys and that these issues are part of them. I'm dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u531	The motion is not about sustainability explorations or thinking tanks. It deals with the geopolitical consequences of climate change. It is also a question of trade policy which can be destabilising in vulnerable regions. We have had an interrupting debate on this subject. The Prime Minister didn't see those effects coming, he told me. That's why we filed this motion. We very much want the problem of refugees to have an integrated approach. This means that the root causes of refugee flows must also be considered. How come there's war and hunger? This has simply to do with climate change and trade policy. That is why I ask the Prime Minister once again for an appreciation of this motion, because I suspect he did not fully interpret it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u532	I have thought of nothing else since the discussion we had this morning during the little debate. I therefore come to the conclusion that there are not enough points of reference for the cabinet. I really think that if we are to have investigations done, that should be real investigations which we believe can ultimately be useful for government policy. At the moment, the cabinet does not see these points of departure. I also believe that there are plenty of other places where that investigation can take place. So I maintain judgment and advise against this motion. However, she has not yet left the table, because I assume that Mrs Thieme will put her to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u533	In the motion, the cabinet is not asked to conduct an investigation. There are already a lot of results from research available. These are international investigations. I mentioned them in the second term. The motion calls for the proper use of these research results and for them to be applied to the Dutch refugee policy. That is why I ask the Prime Minister once again to look carefully at what exactly is being asked of the government in this motion. It does not ask for a think tank to be set up or for research to be carried out. It calls for a comprehensive approach to the refugee problem, so it asks for exactly that whatever is in the Throne speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u534	I get it, but I say again that I would not find it fair to recommend such a motion or investigation here now, when I do not see how the coalition could ultimately find political points in such a'research investigation'. That is also not clear to me in the discussion that Mrs Thieme and I had. Moreover, I think Mrs Thieme has alternatives. Perhaps its sources are even more expert than the sources we can consult. So I'm maintaining my advice. In the motion in part No. 31 the government is asked to come forward with a proposal for a climate law. That is not the intention of the government. Therefore, I advise against the motion. On the content of the motion in part No. 32 of course we discussed this afternoon at length. I reject the motion and refer it to that debate. The same applies to the motion in part No. 33. I also refer to this afternoon's debate. I understand that Mr Krol says: I would like to put these things to the vote again here in the Chamber. But I do not think that this requires a very long explanation from me. After all, we discussed this this afternoon's implementation. I can say to Mr Krol that the question on which the motion for a resolution is based is no. 34 goes, our attention has to a significant extent. That's what we discussed this afternoon. Mr Krol opted for a conference in his motion. That's a bit of a formal matter. We're not much for that drug. We are not in favour of organizing all kinds of conference if we do not really have to. Because we want to do things. I therefore reject the motion because of the form chosen, but I would like to say again to Mr Krol that the idea behind it and the drive that comes out of it is also our thinking and also our drive. The motion in part No. 35 deals with the age limit. That is also what we discussed this afternoon. I then argued why we raised that age limit from 50 years to 56 years. Mr Krol says: I would also like to refer this to the Chamber. Of course, I fully respect that. He will understand, however, that I am against this motion. I am referring here to the good debate we have had this afternoon. The same applies to the motion in part No. 36. I have just responded, in my response to some of the issues that remain about the household allowance, to that issue. That is why I also advise against the motion in part No. 36. The motion in part No. 37 is about longer independent living. We have drawn up and deployed a number of lines. We maintain those lines and think they're good. That's why I advise against this motion. The motion in part No. Mr Kuzu (S). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Kuzu on his excellent report. We also discussed this in detail after lunch this afternoon. Here too, we have made different choices. I refer here to the debate we held this afternoon. Let us not repeat that debate now. I understand, however, that Mr Kuzu would also like to know from the Chamber whether or not she is following the government. Of course, I'm hoping for a happy ending. So does Mr Kuzu. But the outcome he hopes for and the outcome I hope for are different. The motion in part No. 39 concerns the appointment of a maximum number of asylum seekers. That is also what we discussed this afternoon. And here too, we do not agree on this point, but I understand that Mr Van Klaveren also wishes to refer this to the Chamber. On the motion in part No. 40 is what I'm saying. The allowances are already very limited. Asylum seekers are not given priority. Integration is important for status holders, so it is of course different for them. Asylum seekers aren't getting priority, so I'm gonna dissuade the motion. The motion in part No. 41 I also advise against. I have already responded to Mr Zijlstra's interruption this afternoon. May I refer to that? The motion in part No. 42 deals with the scaling-up discount for municipalities that fit in with the policies of decentralisation in the social domain. The initiative for these types of scaling should also come from below. It is an incentive to promote scaling up and mergers. It's supposed to be an incentive, and that's why I'm not recommending the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u535	I think the Prime Minister is getting two things mixed up right now. One is the discount in the social domain and the other is the scaling-up discount that has its basis in the coalition agreement. Part of the coalition agreement didn't go through. Otherwise, I must refer you to the VNG. Maybe it's okay if the Prime Minister has a conversation with the VNG. I think he knows the President well too. It is a warm supporter and gives room for this. I think it would be wise to discuss with the VNG about this weird, still existing scaling-up discount.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u536	This is because we believe that it is good for the implementation of decentralisation if the municipal scale is signed on a somewhat larger canvas than it is today. At the same time, we say that this initiative must come from the bottom up. Through this scaling-up discount we promote mergers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u537	That scaling-up discount is the opposite way. You're going to cut down municipalities and then you're hoping they're going to merge, when we've agreed that we're going to let the mergers take place from the bottom up, not by a punitive measure, but by real intentions. That is also the VNG's plea. All you need to do is to engage in good consultation with the VNG, with its President, Mr Van Zanen, to ensure that there is room for municipalities rather than a silly scaling-up discount for which there is no ground. Payments in the social domain relate to a very different budget. They're outside the scale-up discount. I do not think you should sell fairy tales, because then you do not do justice to the commitment of many congregations in this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u538	I don't think we agree. I don't think Mr. Klein is selling fairy tales or that I am. I don't think we agree. The cabinet believes that the scaling-up discount can help to promote mergers. We also believe that this would be wise in the context of the successful implementation of decentralisation. I see that Mr Klein feels differently. That is a difference of opinion. Let's see how the Chamber judge the motion immediately. I'm supposed to give an opinion, so I'm deceiving the motion. The motion in part No. 43 is not feasible for us, because municipalities have the space to fill in certain matters themselves. As a result, it also varies between municipalities. This is also not to be taken into account in purchasing power for individuals. So we can't do that. Municipalities may be able to do so on the basis of national purchasing power cards. They look at municipal policy and then see what that means. Where we have efficiently set up the departments in The Hague and have had to reduce this efficiency here and there, I would like to prevent us from rehiring a lot of capacity for this. I therefore advise against the motion, but it is not really because of its undesirableness, but simply because of its unfeasibleness. I think this could really be a matter for municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u539	I think it's just an intention. We don't even have 400 municipalities, so I think it would be wise to do it. This will clarify people's purchasing power position. We also do it with all groups, with point clouds and you name it. This is very easy to achieve. I think it would be very good if the government took the lead in this and did not let it depend on the various municipalities. My urgent appeal is to look at this again. It doesn't have to go through the Ministry. Perhaps the CPB can help very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u540	Then you have to ask 393 municipalities out. Then you have to knock things into a model. I do not see the added value of that. I am also very curious about these data, but you can also say to municipalities: do it yourself on the basis of national purchasing power cards. So you can turn it around. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to make a few comments. We had a long debate today and yesterday. I even assume that you intend to vote on the motions tonight, so the party is certainly not over. But we've had a long debate. There's been a lot of treatment. Very different subjects have been discussed, all of which have a direct impact on the daily lives of people in our country. The people who watched yesterday and today will recognize that too, I think. This is valuable and essential in our free society with a parliamentary democracy, with a strong parliament in which nobody is alone in charge. The cabinet therefore attaches the broadest possible support and to the consultation with the House of Representatives. Yesterday and today it has also become clear that there is rarely a problem in politics that can be solved with one push of a button, with one simple intervention. The best example of this today was, of course, the refugee issue, which we have rightly discussed for a long time. It is, of course, the most pressing and complex issue that will undoubtedly continue to be of great concern to us in the coming period. However, there are generally no one-dimensional solutions to the socio-economic issues that have arisen in this debate. That lies in the nature of the political company, of us as we are here as a parliament and government together. At the same time, the Netherlands can look forward to the future with confidence, because the basis on which we stand is broad and strong. It's wider and stronger than it was a few years ago. This applies not only to the economy, but also to our social system, our education and our care. This is a collective achievement and a collective success of the whole of society. We can build on that in the years to come. 70 years after the liberation of our country, the House of Representatives proves its essential role in our democratic process of consultation and decision-making at the threshold of the third century. I look forward to further discussions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u541	Thank you. I am pleased that the 200th anniversary of the House of Representatives has been remembered in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u542	I warmly invite the Cabinet to be present at the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u543	That's mandatory, too, I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-17-tweedekamer-6.u544	I warmly invite you! You make that commitment yourself, but I am very pleased that you are doing so. Before we vote, I shall suspend the sitting for half an hour, so that the various groups still have the opportunity to discuss it.
