ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u1	Mr. Chairman. Last Friday there was an article in De Gelderlander about the increased municipal taxes on electricity and gas infrastructure. Every user pays about €20 hidden taxes. This hidden tax, the precario tax, has long been a thorn in the eye of the Chamber. Motions have been adopted on this subject, sometimes even unanimously. It called for the law to be amended as a matter of urgency to abolish this form of taxation. As far as telecommunications infrastructure is concerned, this has happened. But, yes, because the Minister thinks he has the luxury of being able to afford to put this issue on the long track, the Chamber is always being kept on a leash. It has been over ten years since we talked about this. It was still manageable back then. For example, we are currently talking about EUR 80 million of precario in 2014 in the area of grid operator Alliander. That's 20 bucks a family. In 2013, that was 59 million and it will go up to at least 100 million. The bizarre thing about this tax is that people living in municipalities that do not charge or do not charge much will have to pay the charges of other municipalities. The electricity and gas managers pass on the costs and are legally obliged to apply uniform tariffs. I have four questions. Can the Minister explain why the bill aimed at abolishing the utility infrastructure precario has still not reached the Chamber? He has repeatedly used the spelling formula "as soon as possible," but can he now give a date? Is the Minister's refusal to submit such a proposal to the Chamber due to the fact that municipalities are underfunded to carry out the new decentralised tasks to the municipality? In particular, because households in the municipalities that do not levy do contribute to the taxes of other municipalities, my question to the Minister is whether he agrees with me that taxes should be transparent and fair. This hidden tax does not meet those conditions. If that's the case, what's he gonna do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. Precario is a general tax which municipalities may levy on objects under, on or above the ground. In principle, this is of course due to municipal autonomy. However, as Mr Klein says, the problem with precario on underground pipes for energy, i.e. for gas, electricity and heat, is indeed, in particular, the fact that it is passed on to users, but that it can also be used in municipalities where the precario is not charged. This means that people in neighboring municipalities actually pay for precario whose benefits land elsewhere. That is why it is desirable to change that. The revenue for municipalities is about 100 million euros. So you can't just say that you're quitting without thinking about the consequences. As part of the Tax Plan, about which Secretary of State Wiebes informed the Chamber on Princess Day, we also have this full on the table. We are now in conversation with the Association of Dutch Municipalities to come up with a tax plan with the intention to make a change in this precario.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u3	Isn't that a matter of dampening the well while the calf's already drowned? Municipalities have been able to do this for years. They have done so reluctantly, because the Chamber has said: there will be a ban on precario rights to pipes in the law. This means that municipalities have taken it very slowly. Precisely because each time people have been groomed and reluctant, municipalities have been forced to take action and increase taxes. In fact, they have deposited the precario rights with everyone. Isn't it much more important to make sure that municipalities lose that financial pain? The Minister does talk about the consultation with the VNG, but he has the problem that she will feel the pain. So you have to change that by, for example, increasing the Municipal Fund. In short, speed is needed, because the longer it takes, the more municipalities will have more revenue, the harder it will be to stop this tax at some point. This is not just about the tax plan, but actually about legislation in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Could the Minister therefore indicate a date on which precario duties on pipelines and utility infrastructure will be abolished?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u4	It is true that it has been pointed out years ago that something had to be done about precario on those pipes. We're working on that right now. That's part of the tax plan. The Secretary of State has already informed the Chamber of the ambitions and timing of the tax plan. That is why we are now in full discussion within the cabinet but also with the Association of Dutch Municipalities, to do exactly what Mr Klein is trying to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u5	Moving forward to the tax plan is a different discussion than the debate on precario rights, because the precario rights clearly refer to the Ministry of the Interior. So the Minister can quietly refer the change of law to the Chamber. We can then proceed with that. How we deal with the tax revenues of municipalities is another discussion. We must conduct these with Secretary of State Wiebes of Finance. That's two parallel trajectories.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u6	Extending the municipal tax area is fully a portfolio responsibility of both the State Secretary of Finance and the Minister of the Interior. Redesigning the municipal tax area, including broadening it, is on the table both with my colleague and with me. That's what we're working on right now. One part of this is the precario on the pipes in the ground for the reasons that have just been discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u7	Thank you for your answers and thanks for coming to the Chamber.
