ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-5.u1	Mr. Chairman. The TV program Kassa has repeatedly paid attention to the high cost of mediation for rentals. Landlords, mediators and real estate agents abuse property seekers. Last Saturday we saw a nice piece of this in the broadcast of Kassa. 26 million a year, tenants, house seekers, often students, have to pay extra. There are hundreds of euros per person. These costs were initially charged under the heading "mediation costs'. In order to circumvent the law and yet to recover unjustified costs from property seekers instead of on the landlord, administration costs are now charged instead of mediation costs. In the broadcast we saw that this also amounts to amounts from €350 to €450. What does the Minister think of this practice? How does he assess the behaviour of these mediators and brokers who charge costs to property seekers through a trick, when they provide no or hardly any consideration? How does the Minister feel about the fact that money is being made on the back of people looking for their homes in this way? I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. The law is clear about mediation costs. These can only be calculated on one side, at the landlord's premises or at the tenant's premises. These may be calculated on both sides of the House, but I intend to table a legislative proposal on the basis of which it will be possible on one side. Mr Monasch knows that. It is allowed to tax costs that have been made real in a reasonable way. It is therefore not prohibited to calculate administrative costs, although they must be proportionate to the time spent and costs actually incurred. I am talking to the umbrella organizations of landlords and the Authority for Consumer and Market, which has investigated these practices, as Mr Monasch knows. In doing so, we will examine whether we can further define the concept of "reasonability." I intend to be able to clarify the agreements I hope to make with both parties at the same time as submitting the law, which I hope to do before the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-5.u3	The broadcast also showed how an interviewer called a mediation agency and asked what is the difference between mediation costs and administration costs. The lady in question said that there is a big difference between them. The interviewer asked: what do you do differently now? Then it stopped. It's a trick to get out of mediation costs and it's called administrative costs. The Authority Consumer & Market could not even respond. There are already court rulings, but the ACM needs weeks to form its opinion on this matter. If the Minister is talking to the ACM, can he ask why this is taking so long? There are court rulings, we have the evidence that a trick is happening again, and the interviewee just falls silent on television because she knows she's doing the same thing she did before. I would like to hear if the Minister can encourage the ACM to intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-5.u4	I'm talking to the ACM. The core of the conversation, both with the ACM and with the dome of mediators, is the question of what are still reasonable costs. A free society is allowed to charge costs when providing a service, but of course you should not abuse people in a dependent position. The court rulings, as far as I know, were about calculating double costs. The law is clear about that. Again, I will come up with a tightening of that. I will continue the discussion with the ACM on this and inform the Chamber on both subjects before the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-5.u5	Thank you for that commitment. The Minister indicated that the law is coming. This process started in spring 2014. When can the Chamber receive that law? The Minister rightly says that in a free society you can charge costs, but in a free society you also abide by the law. It was clear from that broadcast that people are trying to circumvent the law in order to charge double mediation costs. My question, therefore, is whether the Minister sees any reason to tighten up the law even further, for example because of the practices that Kassa has shown.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-5.u6	The law, as it is customary, first went into consultation so that the parties who have to work with it can respond to the concept. That's finished now. This means that the bill is now going the usual way: to the Council of Ministers and the Council of State. So I have good hope that the law can come this way before the summer. The tightening-up means that the last allowed option for double mediation costs, i.e. in the case of room rental, will disappear. That made sense in the pre-Internet era. At that time, a mediator could do sensible work, especially in the event of scarcity of student rooms, by calling private individuals and asking them to make a room available. That model is no longer very credible. This will therefore be the subject of tightening up. I take this opportunity to see whether we can make agreements on administration costs, or under whatever name the costs are packaged.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-5.u7	I'm glad the PvdA is bringing up this point. I raised the key money myself once. That is something else, but it falls into the same category: the tenant is being knocked out of the bag unnecessarily when he is fighting for one of the scarce rentals. I have a feeling that the Minister is working on actions, but that it is still very theoretical and legal. In practice, this continues. Could the Minister also look at a way to stop these practices? Otherwise, every six months we stand here with new examples or fragments from television programmes that have shown that the rules are clear, but people can get out of it very easily.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-5.u8	Indeed, Mr Verhoeven has previously called for attention to be paid to the key money. That's actually a different name for the same phenomenon. When I talk about making agreements on a reasonable standard, the same applies to key money. It's not like nothing happened. The ACM has performed. This has resulted, among other things, in the withdrawal of a number of mediators. The fact that I come up with a law also indicates that I, as a legislator, take the responsibility to close the last possibility of double mediation costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-5.u9	I thank the Minister for his answers and his coming to the Chamber.
