ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u1	Mr. Chairman. Transfer of powers to the EU is an important issue, because the transfer of powers can lead to a loss of democratic control if it is not taken up elsewhere. Documents are too often classified. The European Court of Auditors cannot control and national parliaments cannot properly control the Council. We notice this very well, for example, in the openness of correspondence between the Netherlands and the EU. There has already been a lot of debate on the EU post-tax. It is about openness of the government through a WOB request from the Telegraaf, but also about openness of the Chamber when requested. I therefore have a very specific request to the Minister. The Telegraaf has submitted a Euro-WOB request and the government has submitted an opinion to the European Commission. Now other views have become public and we receive regular letters from the Commission. My request to the government is whether it intends to forward this view to the Chamber on the request for a Euro-WOB on whether or not to disclose the documents relating to the post-taxation. Is the Minister prepared to do so? Then we are talking about agencies, but I will leave that to my colleague in the VVD, who will table a motion on this matter. Finally, I would like to table a motion on the Court's recent report on emergency aid for euro area countries during the crisis. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the recent Court of Auditors' report "Emergency aid for euro area countries during the crisis" shows that it is unclear where billions of aid went to Greece and that democratic control of the euro area is inadequate;]] [[noting that the decision-making of the eurogroup takes place outside the regular processes of democratic control and accountability;]] [[noting that there is no independent external audit of the EFSF;]] [[calls on the government to come forward with a proposal within two months in the Netherlands]] [[for independent external control of the EFSF;]] [[for formal procedures in the euro group, including openness of documents and views of Member States;]] [[which can be introduced as a Dutch proposal after discussion with the States-General in Europe,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33848-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u2	Mr. Chairman. We talked about the transfer of powers from the Netherlands to the European Union, to the Commission, a very important issue. What is particularly important for the PvdA is what we do together in Europe and what we can do alone in the Netherlands. For us, Europe stands for a Europe that can tackle the refugee crisis together, a Europe that is working to combat unemployment, a Europe that closely monitors financial institutions and tries to promote a sustainable economy throughout the region of Europe. This does not so much require the transfer of new powers to the Commission or their retrieval; it requires, above all, a shift of attention and of priorities within the competences that exist in the EU. In order to achieve this shift, an active government and also an active Chamber are needed. They must influence the possibilities of European decision-making and make full use of the opportunities for influence. We are talking here, we would almost forget, about informing the Council of State of some time ago, from the beginning of last year. The Council of State makes it very clear that the transfer of powers does not go sneaky, but according to the rules of national law and procedures. We as a parliament must be clear about this and we as a parliament must exercise control over it. The Council of State also concludes that it is not necessarily incomprehensible that the perception that the transfer of powers is taking place in secret. That is why we must ask the government to understand the decision-making process in Brussels, because that is where our ministers and secretaries of state are at the table. Then it becomes clearer what the EU does and what the EU does not do, but above all what role we play, our own national parliament, and what tasks we have as a national parliament to control the government. Therefore, not a motion, but above all an assignment to ourselves: get to work!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u3	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Maij has already mentioned it: the opinion of the Council of State, which was also the subject of general consultation, says above all that it is up to the national parliaments to take up their role. As a result of the debate we had on the agencies, I thought: let us take action straight away. That is why I am tabling a motion on European agencies, also on behalf of the groups of the CDA and the Christian Union. Mr Segers could not be here because of other obligations. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are 33 decentralised European agencies;]] [[Whereas these agencies have been set up to support the work of the European institutions and the Member States;]] [[Whereas the joint approach for decentralised agencies aims to streamline the governance and functioning of the different agencies, but does not involve an overall screening of existing agencies;]] [[Whereas the Cabinet indicates that progress should be made in the accountability of agencies;]] [[invites the government, under the Dutch EU Presidency in 2016, to carry out a review of the decentralised European agencies and to look at:]] [[usefulness and necessity of the different agencies;]] [[the development of the Agency's budget over the period 2000-2015 and a cost-benefit analysis;]] [[possibilities for optimising democratic control of European agencies;]] [[and the most efficient implementation of the work of the agencies,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members of the Wout, Segers and Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33848-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u4	Mr. Chairman. The central point that the Chamber has also raised in general consultation is that it might be possible for the transfer of powers to take place sneaking through agencies. The spokespersons have made a number of comments on this and a number of proposals have been made to assess the extent to which this situation could be improved in such a way as to increase democratic control over these agencies. During the general consultation, I have already said that the creation of an agency is democratically legitimised in two ways. Firstly, the assent of the European Parliament is required. Secondly, it is indirectly legitimised through the bond of national parliaments. I also agree that it is necessary to keep the case under review even after it has been set up. The letter of approach which we sent to the Chamber on 1 July states, inter alia, that the decision to set up an agency must contain a horizon or review clause. It should also be accompanied by provisions on the dissolution of the Agency. Removal can be considered if an agency is underperforming. There are therefore a number of safeguards to ensure that the agencies do not go beyond their powers, so to speak. This is also through control of delegation and implementation. Therefore, according to the Dutch Government, there is no question of a sneak transfer of powers. I have some difficulty in responding to some of the issues raised, because they have not been discussed in general consultation and because they primarily concern the responsibility of the Minister of Finance. It is therefore a little difficult for me to respond to that now. For example, the euro group has been mentioned in this context. This group is, of course, not a council with agencies, but a special eurogroup, a special council of finance ministers. I would therefore like to begin with the Minister of Finance on the motion for a resolution on item No. 18 speak before I judge it. I hope the Chamber will understand that. I would also like to begin by discussing the question on Euro-WOB with the Minister for Finance. The Chamber knows that the position I am taking is a slightly different one. I refer to the correspondence between the Dutch Government and the Commission. However, I will send the Chamber a written reply to that specific question on the Euro-WOB. So that is what I am saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u5	Can the Minister also set a deadline for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u6	Yes. I assume the Chamber would like to vote on this, too. I will therefore send that answer to the Chamber before Tuesday 6 October.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u7	It would be nice if we got it on Monday, October 5. Then we have the answer before the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u8	All right, let's do this. I have every sympathy for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u9	I'd like to hold the motion for at least one week, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u10	At the request of Mr Omtzigt, I propose his motion (33848, No. 18). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u11	Good. So we will respond to that. I will also respond to Mr Omtzigt's specific request. I come to the request in the motion for a resolution on item No. 19, by Mr Van 't Wout, Segers and Omtzigt. It actually says: look again at these agencies and try to separate the chaff from the wheat. In this way, I can only interpret loosely what is requested in the motion. On the various aspects of the screening proposed in the motion, I would like to say the following. First of all, I would like to address the issue of usefulness and necessity. As is well known, decentralised EU agencies are set up to carry out a specific technical, scientific or control task within the European Union. The agencies play an important role in the preparation and implementation of European Union measures. With their technical expertise, the agencies ensure a higher quality of regulation. Thus, the agencies help the institutions to focus on the core of their policy tasks. In fact, the government agrees with all the points in the motion. As the letter states, this already involves an intensive process, namely the so-called joint approach. I would therefore like to see to what extent we can make this motion functional in such a way that it fits within what we actually intend to do, to get a little further along with it. First of all, I think it is appropriate to involve the points in the motion relating to the screening in the institutional working group set up for this purpose. Then we can introduce this directly into the European framework. I would like to do that except for the 2000-2015 budget. After all, that is not the case in the working group. I would like to propose that the conclusions of what has been discussed in the institutional working group should be submitted to the Chamber at the beginning of next year, and then that we consider what this means for a further evaluation. So we'll have an evaluation as you wish, according to the points, except for one. We will present them to the institutional working party so that we have a direct discussion with all the other countries. I think this will also increase effectiveness. I'll let the Chamber know about that. If there is any reason to review or have the matter examined on a number of points, it will of course be done by the government. Once again, I have taken note of the points. I am going to introduce it, and if there are grounds for doing so, a specific check-up can be requested. That's what the plan of action says. If the authors can share this interpretation, I would like to leave the motion to the House's judgement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u12	Mr Van 't Wout, can you nod in agreement or give an explanation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u13	The Minister began with a very good summary of the motion. It is indeed a matter of separating the chaff from the wheat. In the letter we see a good commitment from the cabinet. My view was that, in terms of usefulness and necessity, it was mainly about new agencies. One of the central points of this motion is to look at an institute such as Cedefop, which has been in Greece since 1975 and deals with the MBO. Is there an MBO in the Netherlands that has become a bit wiser in recent years? Let us simply put the motion to the vote and then see if we can find each other in the implementation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u14	I'd be fine with that. I understand very well what you wish for. I believe that the Dutch Government has an interest in this too. I had some doubts about the need for the Dutch Government to go through 33 agencies as the only Member State. I think that this is an enormous task which, administratively and administratively, takes a great deal of effort. This does not mean that we do not want to do so, but that it is so effective to include what is possible in the institutional working group, to report to you on it and then to actually carry out the checks that make sense. But I suppose we can work that out, given what's in the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u15	Thank you. That's how it stays: Judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u16	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-9.u17	The votes on both motions will take place in a week's time on Tuesday, 6 October.
