ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-3.u1	On 30 November last, Gerrit Holdijk, former senator of the Reformed Party, died at the age of 71. He was a member of the First Chamber from 3 June 1986 to 23 June 1987 and from 11 June 1991 to 9 June 2015. For 25 years he was a stable factor in this house. The image of Gerrit Holdijk smoking a pipe in front of the entrance to the First Chamber is iconic and will stay with us for a long time. But for much longer we will remember his sound legal input and his meek but steadfast character. On 17 November 1944, Gerrit Holdijk was born in Uddel, as the son of a farmer. After completing the training for the notary and law studies in Utrecht, he became an independent legal adviser in 1971 and in 1972 at the request of SGP party leader Abma, a policy officer at the SGP group in the Lower House. Gerrit Holdijk was the first to perform the role of policy officer for the SGP Group and would continue to do so until 2010, alongside his legal consultancy. From 1987 he combined this with the membership of the Provincial States in Gelderland. He also worked actively for the local electoral association, the study centre for the SGP and the magazine Zicht van de Guido de Brès-Stichting. In the Eerste Kamer, Gerrit Holdijk has repeatedly made legally sound contributions. His contributions to the plenary debate were always striking and heartfelt. For example, in his maiden speech, he said that politics can often indicate how not to do it, but that it is much more difficult to say how it should ideally. That statement characterizes the sober distance that he always managed to preserve to politics, although he was almost his entire working life involved. Let himself be stirred up by political considerations did not fit in with his independent, independent character. He himself said that he was only a lawyer in the wings of politics. Strong, principled beliefs had Gerrit Holdijk. This was expressed, among other things, when, after 23 years of membership, he first tabled a motion to strengthen the position of shopkeepers who are forced to open their shops on Sundays, and also when, in order to deal with the foot-and-mouth disease epidemic, animals were removed on a large scale. He never went for the publicity himself. On the one hand, because he didn't want to, on the other hand, because he didn't think it would fit with a Member of the Supreme Court. According to him, the Senate had to assess the quality of legislative proposals in a certain political and publicity context. Nevertheless, Gerrit Holdijk became subject of great publicity during the first Rutte cabinet. He had not asked for the bright, sharp light of the cameras and felt visibly uncomfortable. Nevertheless, he continued his work as a Member of Parliament undisturbed. He continued to assess legislative proposals on their legal merits. When he was asked if the increased attention had changed him, he replied that with so much pressure on him he remained on his own low to the ground. His unique position at the time of the Rutte II cabinet even led to the term "Holdijkproof": if a bill is Holdijkproof, it works well. Gerrit Holdijk was strongly convinced of the importance of cherishing the rule of law. In dealing with legislative proposals, he insisted on proper transitional rights and was, among other things, very critical of austerity measures restricting access to justice. He assessed legislative proposals from a conservative point of view and from the idea that religion, morality and justice are closely linked. His personal faith in his introduction was never paramount, but was always the final piece. Thus he once closed his input with the words: "We do not know what life is / Only that it is given / And that of this mystery / God is the beginning and end." At his farewell to the Chamber on 2 June this year, Gerrit Holdijk said that he had lived his membership of the First Chamber as described by Livius Roman politician Cincinnatus. He was consul in 460 BC and even twice called dictator by the Senate. Before that vocation, his life was dedicated to agriculture; we are still talking about Cincinnatus. If and for as long as necessary he was willing to serve the public task upon request. After his task was finished, he said goodbye to return to his field and ancestral estate. We know that Gerrit Holdijk experienced it as a mercy that after his heavy operation he was given the strength to complete his task here, so that he could then return to his ancestral inheritance. But we regret that his stay in his familiar surroundings should be of such short duration. His great merits for our parliamentary democracy and the way in which he performed his duties as a Member of Parliament are a source of inspiration and an example for us. May the gratitude for his rich life and the lasting memory of the special man he was, his relatives, friends and fellow party members be to support. I give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-3.u2	Madam President. Less than six months ago we said goodbye to Mr. Gerrit Holdijk as a senator in this house. A function that he indeed fulfilled for as much as a quarter of a century. The sad news of his death came not unexpectedly, but still very quickly. He was one of the last people in The Hague that I personally never stopped vousvoying. At the same time, I know few politicians as approachable and as disgusting as he is. It was that entirely own way of doing that gave him a natural authority, along with his great knowledge of things and his wise, sunk judgment. His pipe matched his thoughtful nature. A conversation or debate with Senator Holdijk was always worthwhile. He was principled and principled, but at the same time aimabl and not a sharpener. With his honesty, hypothermia of humor and clear language, he took people for himself, even outside his own circle. For example, he has meant a great deal to our country for many years in his own way. Gerrit Holdijk was not looking for the foreground, and certainly not for himself. In the luwe of the political company he felt the most characteristically at home. But when, due to political circumstances, he suddenly became the focal point of interest, he remained just who he was: a man without cards in the sleeve, straight forward and always crystal clear about his views. "I am so assembled that I prefer to be as independent as possible," he once said. A verdict that testifies to self-knowledge. What drove Gerrit Holdijk to the depths was an unshakeable faith in God. I liked the way he spoke at his farewell to the First Chamber about the meaning of the Veluwe farewell greeting "ajuus." That comes from "à Dieu": go with God. That road is his now. I sincerely hope that this thought will comfort his wife, children and grandchildren, his party mates and all other relatives. I wish them a great deal of strength.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-3.u3	I would ask you all to observe a minute's silence.
