ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u1	We are in need of the first-term response from the cabinet. I am happy to give the floor to the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. The debt problem is complex and versatile. Panteia's 2014 Late Payment Monitor shows that one third of households in the Netherlands have late payments. One in six Dutch households runs the risk of problematic debts, has problematic debts or is in a debt relief process. More people have problems with paying their bills, including the care premium. On 12 December last year, Secretary of State Klijnsma informed the Chamber about the government's concerns and the broad approach to reducing the problem. This problem does not go beyond the care sector, but it must be clear that default in the healthcare sector is only part of the debt problem. Solutions can therefore not only be found in the healthcare sector. At the same time, I also outlined this last year..... should be placed in a broader perspective in the health insurance system and be somewhat related. More than 330,000 non-payers account for 2.5% of insured persons. That number is almost equal to the number of contributors at the time of the Health Fund Act. But unlike in the past, a lot of efforts are being made to prevent the guilt of health insurers and people from ending up at the Zorginstituut Nederland. Healthcare insurers do what they need to do. They allow spread payment of one's own risk, as well as payment arrangements in case of late payment. The legislative proposal aims to help the government in the care sector to resolve this wider problem through a number of measures. In doing so, the main aim of the legislative proposal is to promote the outflow and to reduce the influx as much as possible. One of the important measures is, of course, the reduction of the administrative premium. A number of Members of Parliament have already referred to this. Instead of the standard premium, which includes an own risk component, we move to an average nominal premium, which is therefore lower. We can also identify groups that can drain out of the Healthcare Institute, facilitate the cancellation by a simple payment scheme and encourage insurers to take more preventive measures. There's a lot going on. Healthcare insurers carry out the process by sending the second and fourth month letters, as required by law. In many cases, health insurers have a more extensive debtor department than other private organisations, which are insured with late payments. Healthcare insurers provide insured persons with late payments and opportunities for spread payment and payment arrangements. They report these possibilities proactively so as to avoid late payments as much as possible. In addition, health insurers increasingly make agreements with municipalities and sometimes with other sectors on prevention and debt resolution. You can think of the collections for the minimums, but also of local customization, such as in Amsterdam. This includes, for example, payment arrangements where part of the debt is forgiven.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u3	There are indeed good initiatives, but we are also getting more and more signals from health insurers who do not make any payment arrangements at all or who say: you know what, you can pay next year. Then people get a payment arrangement that doesn't help them. How does the Minister feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u4	I think it is important that we all take our role to keep the debt problem as small as possible. Healthcare insurers are social enterprises that also have an important social role. They should therefore also take that role by offering payment schemes for the premium and at their own risk. At first this was only done by a few health insurance companies, but you can see that it is more common use than it is an exception. I like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u5	The question was: does the Minister also consider that every health insurance provider must offer a payment scheme?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u6	We have not legally regulated that health insurance companies should do so. As a minister, you can say it's in the law, so we're gonna force it. As a social entrepreneur, I think you should take your role. That includes payment arrangements. In order not to remain general, I also have a number of more concrete examples of what is going on. As a result of regional meetings, Menzis has made arrangements with the municipalities of The Hague and Zoetermeer. The basis for this is the Amsterdam methodology. CZ is in conversation with several municipalities. Concrete arrangements have been made with the municipality of Tilburg. Healthcare and Security is in conversation with the municipality of Leiden and with housing corporations about a cross-sectoral approach. Achmea has an appointment with the municipality of Amsterdam and is in conversation with other municipalities to make similar arrangements. VGZ is talking to several municipalities about pilots to limit the inflow into the withholding tax, to promote outflow and to extend the exchange of data for early warning purposes. Mrs Dijkstra was right when she said that you have privacy in that regard. We would like early warning but you also need privacy rules for that. However, within the privacy rules laid down by law and by which everyone has to comply, we are committed to making the most of the space to give early warning hands and feet. The Ministry of Social Affairs is in talks with health insurers and municipalities about the outflow of welfare recipients. Healthcare insurers take a positive view of the success of the intentions on this point. What are we doing? As ministries, we have taken the initiative for regional meetings. They're pretty steamy. We're on eight out of 12 by now. Within these regional meetings, cooperation between municipalities and health insurers should be facilitated and existing cooperation improved. There are also best practices to be exchanged. It is a tough issue, but insurers and municipalities still want to explore regional cooperation. I say with Mrs Bruins Slot that we want to make meters, of course, but if you look into it, the matter turns out to be very uncomfortable. In practice, however, we make meters. We would like it to go faster, but there are promising initiatives. If they work, they are taken over by other municipalities and other insurers. There is also a discussion with the health insurers about additional conditions for the default contribution. These are about the regular collection process, but they are also intended to stimulate the development of more preventive activities and to trigger the outflow. Mrs Bouwmeester asked about the collection process and whether progress was being made. Yes, progress is being made, although this is also a harsh matter. That's what we talked about last year. There is talk with insurers about improving the collection process. It also looks at how prevention activities can be linked to them, for example by writing off more outstanding debts in payment schemes that allow people to be unsubscribed, and by participating in the outflow of welfare recipients. A year ago, I was standing here with the first proposal. For that there was universal sympathy, also from the government, because otherwise I would not have made the proposal. Between the ideal image and practice, however, there is sometimes a world of technical implementation. I was already convinced but now I am even more convinced of the problems at the Tax Office and the SVB. You can ask a lot of systems, but you also need to know your limits. We need to know our limits together. The system is not so complex. But it's gonna be different when you're getting that up and down. In that sense, we have been a little bit recalled. It had to be simpler. That's the second bill. The second which is complex concerns implementation. We are talking about people who, by definition, are in a complex situation and who have to deal with a tough problem. There is also a high chain dependence of all parties for the exchange of data and information. When you make adjustments in a part of the chain, they sound all over the place. In the new bill, I did not focus on differentiation and customization when it comes to the premium. Actually, I'm looking for it in the effluent. Of course, I can differentiate according to the bill by saying that in the fine regime, for example, we do not apply 130%, but 120%. I can also look at the groups. Support recipients form such a group. How can we give special attention and regulation to welfare recipients through outflow as the first group? However, with the legislative proposal we are doing something very important. It can always happen that people can't pay, because misery can happen to all of us. We can now say that people who are not able to pay will soon be removed from this situation. If you are unlucky enough to get into a hopeless situation of debt but you do want to pay, you can pour out very quickly and settle with the health insurance company, which means that you will no longer have the penalty regime from that moment on. We are working on this arrangement, whereby after two or three years, if you have paid off your debts with the insurer, the debt at Zorginstituut Nederland will be cancelled. In this way, the problem is not reflected in the legislation, but make sure that the implementation practice does what we agreed on here last time. People who are just unlucky, want to get out of that situation and do their best for it, we can give a new perspective in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u7	We're a whole block away now. That arrangement will automatically come to the Chamber and then we'll talk about it. I have another question about the collection protocol. The Minister indicated that the practice is very uncomfortable and difficult. Last year there was a concrete proposal from social counsellors and debt relief workers. They have put forward ten concrete proposals for improvement, which could have just been implemented. What's so complicated that this didn't happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u8	I do not have these ten proposals for improvements in place. However, insurance companies only have data on care use and premium disadvantage. It is therefore very difficult to set up the protocol for target groups. There's a really big bump there. We do see that the protocol has been adapted to the requirements of the law and the requirements of the collection regime for insurers. The protocol is therefore more focused on general principles. You can also see that insurers go beyond the protocol in practice. Insurers who work with the protocol as a basis, develop it themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u9	The good news is that the benevolent insurers go beyond the protocol, because they take the points that go wrong in the implementation seriously. However, some of the health insurers do not. It would help if the specific points raised last year were included in the Protocol. Because they're not that complicated. Will the Minister, in consultation with the health insurers, once again point out to them that they can simply amend the protocol? Then it's settled.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u10	In the next consultation I have with health insurers, I will highlight the ten points to which Mrs Bouwmeester refers. I will ask them to amend the protocol accordingly. We probably received these proposals last time, or we will get them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u11	The Minister is only at the beginning of her reply and perhaps she will come back to this subject later, but I have heard her say a number of times that it is uncomfortable and complex. In nature, however, it is also very simple. We want a solution to be found for the people who have been in the penalty regime for so long that you can say that the scheme was not made for them. Some people have been in it for five or six years: the scheme was not intended for them. Minister Klink, who introduced the law, said that the regime was so frightening that there would be a huge outflow of 50,000 people a year which would eventually make the scheme redundant. Because the implementation is so complex, the Minister cannot differentiate it all too much. However, we all want to realise that outflow. Can't we agree that in one or two years the reservoir will be gone?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u12	I did not say that we accept it because it is complex. I said I'm looking for the solution in the implementation, because it's complex and we need to keep the systems intact, so we can still work with them and not stall them, like the SVB and the Tax Administration. Once the Tax Administration was the best working system in The Hague. So I said that someone who enters into a payment arrangement can get directly out of the penalty regime. That 30% will then lapse for everything that comes after it. That person can then pay off the debts in a scheme and if that happens within two or three years, the remainder will be forgiven by the SIN. In principle, we have taken the people who do, out of that heavy regime, and that was what it was all about. That leaves what we call the granite stock, people who've been in it for five years. We are, of course, also looking at this. One of the solutions we have come up with for this group of welfare recipients is to see what we can do to pull people out of that group. That is not exhaustive; it is just the group we want to start with. Some of those people are part of the granite stock and they've been in it for a long time. Can we not come to an arrangement for beneficiaries to withdraw them from that group? You start with that and on that basis you're going to see how you do it with other groups, because I totally agree: if you're in the Wajong, you're at the beginning of your life. Once you've been in a file like this for five years, it doesn't really give you much perspective. Mrs Klever mentioned people who work hard and maybe have three jobs to make ends meet. Shouldn't we be looking at that, too? Yes, only we see that it is complex and that differentiation at individual level was not possible. We're trying with groups now. Let's start with the first group. Those are the welfare recipients. Let's see how that goes and see if it's feasible. Based on the evaluation of that group, you can see how you proceed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u13	I will come back to that, because I think it would be good to expand that group. The Minister says: we do not accept the people who are in it; we want to do something about it. I'd like to have a clearer purpose. In two years, the reservoir, the granite stock or whatever we want to call it, will be gone. I have a table here, by the way, because we have been given a huge breakdown on the ground. It states, for example, that 150 people from that reservoir are considered to be directors-major shareholders. So we actually know a lot about these people and their socio-economic background, but we can't seem to convince them to get out of it, or by paying for it, or by offering them an arrangement. I would just like to agree, if it can't be done in the systems and if it can't be done legally, that in two years' time the 100,000 people who are in it from the start are all seen and as much out as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u14	Then we will ignore the responsibility of the people themselves. They're in and they're not getting out somehow. Their responsibility is also there, as well as we have ours. That's why we want to do what I just said. Instead of saying that we cannot deliver individual tailor-made solutions, because the systems cannot handle them, we want to see how we can get the group of welfare recipients out as the first group. I don't want to expand that group right away, because you have to see if it works, if the systems are right or if things go wrong. If it goes very well and it is successful, you can then take a second step. There are 60,000 people in that file who have never paid anything. There are people in the scheme for more than five years; that's 90,000. It's a serious group. I agree with Mrs Leijten that we should not accept this. We're gonna go jigsaw puzzle. This bill isn't the end either. It is a journey that we are entering into with each other and in which we are always trying to get a step further. As far as the distinction between non-willers and non-cannons is concerned, we have made a possibility. The non-willers remain in the regime and are first with the 30%, but we can actually help those who want to get out. We can pull them out of the system pretty quickly. How many municipalities don't have collective insurance? There is a handful of municipalities without collective insurance. In any case, this is unlikely to become an obligation at the time of outflow. This is currently being discussed in the working group on outflow, which includes municipalities and health insurers. Almost all municipalities have collective insurance for the minima. The study on municipal poverty and debt policies, which I sent to the Chamber in the autumn, shows that 93% of the municipalities work with this instrument. Collective insurance is not only desirable for minima. The municipality also benefits from this. With collective insurance, the municipality can in a cheap way avoid that minima are affected by unexpected, high care costs. It also reduces the risk of the emergence of debts. We don't have any signals that municipalities take out very expensive insurance. However, the premium may be higher if, for example, all kinds of additional rights are regulated, if one's own risk is eliminated and the premium is paid off, or even if there is dental care in it. If you look at average, you can see that the collective insurance we're talking about here is significantly cheaper.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u15	The Minister talks about collective insurance offered by municipalities. Do they only apply to people with benefits? Or are they also accessible to people who have a minimum wage or who are slightly above the minimum wage?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u16	In my view, it is mainly benefit insurance, but it also covers some 110% of the minimum wage. Oh, I hear they're up to 120% of the minimum wage.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u17	Does it apply to all collective insurance schemes that municipalities offer that people on a salary are eligible for up to 120% of the minimum? Or is that different from one municipality to another and is it certainly not the case that everyone with a minimum wage is eligible for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u18	It's different from one city to another. It is also a growth process. Years ago, municipalities didn't have this. Now you see that more and more municipalities, even almost all, now have collective insurance. One always checks whether this collective insurance is adequate, and whether there are groups of people in the municipality who need to be otherwise supported. Of course it's a municipal scheme. So one municipality does it, sister, and the other municipality does it this way. More and more collective insurance is emerging where the statutory minimum wage plus 20% falls in. It has been asked whether I would only make it compulsory for the municipal regime to be followed in order to prevent the penalty regime if we know that the arrangements are all optimal. The scheme is, in all likelihood, not made compulsory, not even when designating groups that may be released from the administrative premium.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u19	If we know that not all health insurance companies cooperate equally actively and voluntarily, what is the argument not to make the scheme compulsory?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u20	Is Mrs Bouwmeester talking about collective insurance in municipalities?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u21	Yeah, that's what it was about. Mrs Bouwmeester, please explain your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u22	Thank you for repeating that, Mr President. It is about the general scheme of health insurance companies, which I asked a question about just now. We can only ask questions on the basis of cubes. That's why I waited nicely. Why does freedom remain with health insurers?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u23	On the contrary, this legislative proposal reduces the freedom of health insurers. Mrs Bruins Slot asked if I could make three regimes, because I would now have two. Actually, I already have three. I have a zero regime, where insurers get nothing at all. I also have a low regime, where the insurer gets money out of the pay-as-you-go scheme when he does things. I have a high regime for insurers who work incredibly hard with municipalities and debt relief. They get extra money. So it will be a three-stage regime, in which you will get a distinction between insurers. This includes the payment scheme that Mrs Bouwmeester has just asked for. It is then a question of whether you offer the insured person a payment arrangement. If you don't, you won't get compensation. You'll be in the zero regime. There's an insurance company that doesn't participate. That's ONVZ. This insurer will therefore not receive any compensation either. This bill contains stimuli that were not there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u24	Mrs Bouwmeester, you have already had two interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u25	One question was to clarify your point, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u26	Very briefly, then.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u27	I think this is a good proposal. However, the question is why it is accepted that ONVZ simply does not participate. What does that mean for those insured by ONVZ who get into trouble during the year and cannot switch? That's not so social, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u28	No, but that obligation is not in the law. So it turns out there's one insurance company who's not in on it. Therefore, it does not receive any compensation from the scheme. The insured person who sits with this insurer is, of course, simply offered the form. We have the legal obligation in the second month letter and the fourth month letter. Of course, an insured person gets it. Sometimes, however, it happens differently. I went to see how this happened in Enschede myself. There the insurer, the municipality, the debt relief, as it were, the whole chain is looking at how this can be done better. So that's how some insurance companies do it. One insurer is more regionally oriented and can do so better. The other insurer can do less good because he doesn't have the potential for that. However, I think it is important that it should happen. You can also see they're all doing it now, except for one. It has been argued that the 30% fine should be used to pay. I don't want to regulate that legally. Mrs Leijten and Mrs Dijkstra have tabled amendments on this subject. We have opted for the agreements that are made between insurers and municipalities about the outflow. So we do not choose to differentiate in the law, but we do make a kind of arrangement that includes the following. For the people who leave the scheme, the 30% penalty will immediately expire. This will allow them to pay off their debts. In addition, the remaining debt at the Healthcare Institute will lapse. In fact, therefore, we have chosen to do so. The scheme which Mrs Leijten is now advocating would mean that there is no incentive whatsoever to pay the premium. If we do not impose a fine on them at all and if we tell people that they can use that 30% premium to pay off their debts, then there is no incentive for people to pay their premiums properly. That's what we need to be careful about. Then there is no difference between the people who pay that premium and the people who do not.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u29	I understand what the Minister is saying. She's looking for it in the next step, so when people come out... However, when it comes to whether this happens in a good way, people are completely dependent on their congregation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u30	No, because we're working out these arrangements right now. They will then become generally applicable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u31	What's that gonna be? Will that be a ministerial arrangement? Then how is the Minister gonna take care of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u32	I believe that this will go through a ministerial arrangement. Yeah, I see the officials nodding. So that's the practical solution I've sought for something that you could also regulate in the law. However, if you regulate that in such a general way in the law, you remove the incentive. I think that's negative. I'd like to keep that incentive in place for the people who don't want to pay. But I would also like us to make arrangements for those who are unable to pay, so that they can get out in a good way and not suffer the 30% penalty. They'll just get a real 0% fine. For what is ultimately left, we are now making an arrangement. Is it gonna be two years? Is it gonna be three years? We're looking into that now. In the end, that arrangement will be established. If after that certain period you still have something at Zorginstituut Nederland, that will expire. That way, people eventually get perspective again and they can put an end to it at some point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u33	It will not be Mrs Dijkstra's intention to argue for no incentive to pay the premium. I don't mean to. We are looking for a solution for the people who are caught in that penalty scheme and in that debt. They can't pay off the debt because of that fine. Now the Minister wants to settle this through a ministerial arrangement, which will apply to all those who want to, but cannot pay because of debt problems. During the execution test, however, Zorginstituut Nederland stated that this is actually very difficult to establish. According to the Zorginstituut Nederland, this can only be determined at individual level. Is it, then, part of this ministerial arrangement that everyone is assessed individually? Will everyone be tested before they are covered by this regulation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u34	No, people just go into the scheme and then meet the conditions of the scheme. This regulation has not yet been drawn up; we are still busy discussing it. You could agree in that scheme that people pay their premiums properly as soon as they are covered by the scheme. They must therefore pay off the debt they have accumulated from their health insurance provider. We agree that of everyone who has paid off his debt at some point, the remaining debt at Zorginstituut Nederland also lapses. This will happen after two or three years, depending on the way in which we are going to shape this scheme. That arrangement applies to everyone; there is no selection. Anyone who is benevolent and wants to be covered by that arrangement is accepted. From that moment on, he or she will no longer have the 30%.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u35	I think it sounds like what we're talking about. But the Minister blames us that by using the fine to pay off, the deterrent effect of it disappears. I want, above all, the non-cannons in that arrangement. Furthermore, I understand that this scheme is also open to the category that has not wanted to pay for a while, and I would point out that it is difficult to make that distinction. The scheme is therefore intended for anyone who is in the penalty regime and wants out. For them, the 30% penalty expires, but it goes to the redemption. That arrangement would then be ministerial rather than legal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u36	Yes. We're not gonna look at the past. As soon as someone wants to get out and commit to the scheme, he or she will be covered by that scheme. I've just got to straighten something out with Mrs. Bouwmeester. At ONVZ you will be disbarred after a month of non-payment. Then you go to another health care provider who's also on that route. The second and fourth monthly letters therefore lapse. Mrs Bouwmeester was already surprised when I said that, and that was right: I had said it wrong. It's good to make that right. They have 2% of the market and they do not; all other insured persons do. Since there is an acceptance obligation, the insured person will then be with an insurer who is automatically in such a scheme and who may or may not receive compensation for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u37	This raises more questions than it answers!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u38	That was my fault, because I did it wrong first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u39	Thanks for the correction. Actually, it's an unwanted, yes even perverse incentive for a health insurance provider to be able to disloy someone unilaterally because it's a tricky pay-per-viewer. I find that complicated. There are health insurers who are taking very good steps and the cabinet is also taking very good steps. Do we accept that one health insurance company says: but I'm out of the game, because that saves me money, or what can be behind it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u40	What we are proposing here is very much aimed at prevention. We want to reward health insurers when they do prevention. I think that is an important point in this legislative proposal. This insurer may not be able to meet this requirement. Then you have to disloy someone before a second month of late payment occurs, because after that it is no longer allowed and he or she will come for you. This insurer chooses to do so. The damage he incurs is on his own account, so that there is no right to compensation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u41	So you've lost a "wrapped" insured person, who then, I assume, can choose which health care provider he wants.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u42	Yes, because we have an acceptance obligation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u43	That's a nice way to get rid of your health care provider. That's one way of looking at it. Well, I have tabled an amendment on this, so I will not go into it further.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u44	For a moment I thought Mrs Bouwmeester's second question was about what I wanted to ask. What does the Minister think about the fact that another insurer is dealing with people who cannot or do not want to pay their bills?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u45	We have improved the existing situation for those insurers who are making all these efforts. Because they weren't compensated for that before. That was actually wrong, because a number of social insurers are putting a huge amount of energy into this process, also from their social role. In this bill, we wanted to reward it. You'll see who's left behind. That's right. Mrs Bouwmeester and Mrs Bruins Slot asked whether this could not be made visible. That's what's gonna happen. I'm going to ask the NZa if these three regimes can be displayed in the Insurance Monitor. Then you can see which health insurance company is in which regime.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u46	Does it therefore become clear which insurers and which regime they are dealing with?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u47	Yeah, so it says "regime zero." Let's not call names, "insurer X." Do people in an administrative regime also have to pay their own risk? The administrative premium is purely a method of calculation. If the insured person uses care, he must also pay his own risk. That's what he gets care allowance for. This question is also before the court in the context of proceedings against the Zorginstituut.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u48	Mrs Leijten, I am hesitant, because we will be very out of time. If you can keep it brief and concise, that would help.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u49	Everyone is legally obliged to pay their own risk. I don't want to argue about that. The point is that the calculation premium was an average use of one's own risk. Now that we have the nominal premium, that's gone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u50	Yeah, that's why it's lower. Instead of the incentive scheme for insurers who invest a lot with the municipalities, should we really not fine insurance companies in this bill if they do not? So it's actually turned around. The insurers actually already have a fine in the form of the risk of loss of contributions in the first six months. Insurers, although they do not receive that premium, must insure those people. That's, actually, on the other hand, the incentive for the health insurance company. There has been talk of the outflow versus the inflow, with the exception of 2012. The influx is indeed greater than the outflux, but I would point out that, of course, we have had a very serious economic crisis. That crisis has really hit people hard. You can see that very well in these kinds of figures. As Mrs Leijten pointed out, we do not have any figures on the people who live in institutions and who do not know that they are in the regime. People in institutions are often represented by directors and the like who represent the interests of those insured. So we have no idea. The question is what you could do with it if you had an insight into it. These people handle their own financial affairs or others do that for them. Those who do this for them should be aware of this. I think we have already talked about measures aimed at people on low incomes. We are, moreover, taking measures in this legislative proposal which are beneficial to all those who pay the debt. Because we have based the calculation system on the average nominal premium, we have already brought the amount down anyway. For non-customers, we are now in the process of developing an arrangement, which will be set up through a ministerial arrangement. This will give everyone the opportunity to actually escape that fine. Of course, the bill also allows the minister or cabinet to fix a lower fine than that 130% in the case of ministerial regulations. There is physical control of persistent defaulters, because the bailiff pays a visit if not paid. The Zorginstituut has 70 bailiff offices covering nationwide. Those bailiffs go to people's houses. Healthcare insurers need to make an extra effort to ensure that people who are longer in the scheme can drain out. That's what I'm talking to them about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u51	I had asked for physical checks on people who didn't pay their care allowance. A bailiff sent by a health insurance company who comes to the door...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u52	By the Healthcare Institute.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u53	Okay. It's about someone going in there, checking if there's a car or looking in the fridge, for example. Then you'll see soon enough if someone has money to pay their care premium or not. This can also be done by linking files: does anyone have a car, does anyone have traffic tickets? That way, you can really go after it to see if someone can't pay their health care premium or doesn't want to pay it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u54	I'm less at home in that than the Secretary of State, but I suppose a bailiff will look at what you own, what you've got on your doorstep and what you live in. Perhaps the Secretary of State could go into this in more detail, or perhaps you are entirely satisfied with this answer. A bailiff rings the doorbell, "Would you like to pay? No? Oh, then I'm gone." That's not how it works. A bailiff's gonna do some research anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u55	Mrs. Klever, I suggest we wait for the Secretary of State to respond. Then she can answer this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u56	Okay, then I'll hold off on my follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u57	We actually had a debate last year on merely giving acute care to persistent defaulters. Mrs. Klever hasn't changed her mind. Neither do I, I can tell you. So we're doing the debate a little bit again. In Switzerland, people have actually tried to provide only acute care for people who do not pay their care contributions. Eventually, it turns out it doesn't solve anything, because it's gonna be more expensive. After all, if you delay care, the care you eventually need becomes more expensive. Eventually, that leads to more costs. Basically, it doesn't solve anything either, because unpaid bills end up with caregivers. After all, there you come with your heavier, acute question. We didn't choose to do that. Besides, what is acute and what isn't? You can keep whole papers about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u58	What's acute, I'd like to leave it to the doctor's discretion. The minister says it didn't work out in Switzerland. Now I do not know the Swiss system, but the intention is not to deny people care, the intention is to give people an incentive to pay the care premium. If you don't pay your care allowance now, you're just gonna get all the care you need. For the group of people who can but do not want to pay, there is no incentive to pay contributions. How terrifying is this measure, according to the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u59	The percentage of defaulters in Switzerland is as high as here. The deterrent effect has thus not led to fewer contributors. Apparently, it's not that effective. I understand Mrs Klever's reasoning, but it must be effective. If it turns out that the costs are ultimately higher and that the measure is not dissuasive enough, at least I cannot infer from it, because the Swiss percentage is as high as the Dutch version, I think we should just not get started.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u60	Short, Mrs. Klever.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u61	I think it is a little short-sighted to refer to the Swiss system of which we do not really know the details. This measure is not intended for people who cannot pay. However, there is a very large group of persistent defaulters who do not want to pay and who also have no incentive to pay. Even with the relaxation proposed by the Minister, those people are not going to pay. You have to deal with these people somehow and stimulate them to pay. Then there must be an ultimum remedium, in the sense of "if you really don't pay, you just don't get care." People are gonna pay. Now there's just no incentive.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u62	I sense a repetition of moves.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u63	I feel really bad about that. If you don't pay something, you don't get it. Alone, this is concern. What's acute? If you have an acute heart attack, you'll be in the hospital. We all think that's acute. Is it acute that you have to take pills after that to stay out of the hospital? No. Then you won't get the pills and you'll be back in the hospital in no time. We've all had those discussions. In the end, the conclusion was: we are not going to do that. What we do do with this bill, which is to do everything we can to get people to pay. If they don't want to, we should actually let them pay the bill. If people can't, we'll give them new regimes that will allow them to flow out. But you cannot find the solution you are looking for in your proposals, Mrs Klever. If there was a proposal that would work, I'd be happy to take a look at it. But at least it doesn't work in Switzerland. We discussed the issue of immigrants who paid for it in detail last time. When it comes to information, prevention and solutions, you have to look closely at what is working for which target group. This is not something we can establish here in The Hague, for which you need municipal policy and cooperation between municipalities and insurers. How do we approach the Wajongers? Then we do it in a certain way. They're on the Internet a lot. I'm just saying something. So we'll do it on that route. How do we approach immigrants who are not paying? We'll do that in a different way, because then we'll be able to reach them better. So you have to have a diverse policy to reach all groups to get back to paying premiums. The VVD proposes, by amendment, to set the band at 110 to 130. The amendment again sets out in the law how high the administrative premium should be, but provides sufficient scope to use the amount of the premium as a policy instrument. I leave the opinion on the amendment to the House. I shall come back to the other new amendments later. We have been asked how many less contributors there will be and what number is acceptable. That's a difficult question. I think everyone should pay their bounty. It may be hard in life, but it must take a short time and be resolved quickly. We are very committed to prevention and making it easier to get perspective again. I cannot make an exact statement on this. I do expect that the only tens of thousands of people will care, otherwise we will not have to make this effort, but I will follow that through the Insurance Monitor. I'll share that with the Chamber. How are we going to shape even more prevention? I have just indicated that there are a lot of preventive activities: information provision, collections for minima, opportunities for distributed payments. This bill allows and rewards even more preventive measures. I think we should always do reconnaissances on new things we can do. We also need to spread best practices widely. The effect of the second and fourth month letters is high. 40,000 second-month letters and 15,000 fourth-month letters are sent every month. There's a huge drop. You can see that the second month letter has a strong preventive effect in practice. Mrs Bruins Slot asked about the numbers in this context. I said I'm holding it at tens of thousands. I find it difficult to make specific statements on this because it is really wet fingering, but we would not use this if we thought it would do nothing. There are many parties involved: municipalities, ministries, health insurance companies, but also all kinds of people in debt relief and so on. The effectiveness of the withholding tax is a constant focus, both in the regular administrative consultation and in practice at the healthcare institute. There's another bailiff check on people whose files are at the CJIB. Twice a year a check on income is made at the UWV. We continue to focus on this, as is my positive response to Mrs Dijkstra. I'm here to talk about the privacy aspects. We will, of course, respect the law, but we will also see with early warning how best practices and within the law can do the best we can.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u64	I wasn't fast enough at the interrupt microphone to respond to the previous answer. The Minister says that the withholding tax is still in full focus. I also asked whether this would be monitored annually. Is it gonna stay that way?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u65	Yes. Twice a year a check on income is made at the UWV. There's a bailiff's check on people whose files are at a collection agency.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u66	That's structural, too? That's how it's gonna stay?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u67	Yeah, that's a structural focus and focus point. Mr. Chairman. It has been asked whether I can comment on the appeal in the case that took place in February 2014. That matter lies with the court. There is still no idea when treatment will take place. Can it be made clear how good health insurers are doing in terms of reducing it? I have already reported that I will mention those three categories in the Insurance Monitor. An investigation has been requested to use the storage on the administrative premium for debt repayment. I don't have an investigation. I said in response to amendments that I do not think it is desirable, because we have an alternative in practice. The next question is how we can promote greater cooperation between municipalities and health insurers. Can a covenant be concluded? Should we not take more preventive measures? We have concluded a cooperation agreement between the umbrella organisations of, among others, municipalities and health insurance companies. It is now important to give concrete substance to the cooperation provided for in that covenant. For example, additional conditions are laid down in the non-payers' contribution for health insurers. The cooperation of health insurers is also encouraged. Activities such as regional meetings also help municipalities and health insurers to find each other. The ministries of VWS and Social Affairs work closely together in preventing and reducing debt. The Ministry of Social Affairs is particularly involved in the role of the municipalities. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Employment is committed to the prevention and early warning of debts and calls, wherever possible, for attention to be paid to cooperation with health insurers. I see that, apart from all these actions, health insurers and municipalities are finding each other ever better. We know that there are people who do not appear to be indeterminate. I don't want to talk about guilt, but it could go wrong on all sides. It often goes wrong because people do not contact the insurer until they register to solve the case. There are certain groups to be defined. Speaking of which, foreign students form such a group. You'd better anticipate that and get this taken away. In practice, there are three default contributions regimes, if you take the zero regime with you. What have we done to pay the effective measures interest? The Health Insurance Line actively provides information and mediation in order not to become a ungrateful care premium. Over the period 2013 to 2016, we have made over 2 million grants available for this purpose. The Health Insurance Line looks up the right channels. We have created a good website for this. Do I have an understanding of the extent to which health insurers are active to be the first to ring the bell in debt building? Does the NZa have any insight into that? Healthcare insurers therefore send those second and fourth month letters in case of early payments of the care premium. This includes adequate information for the insured on the possibilities for spread of late payments, as well as on the necessary debt relief provided by the municipalities. In addition, health insurers have extensive debtor departments that assist insured persons with late payments by telephone. The NZa checks whether all required steps as included in the Health Insurance Act are being carried out. The NZa reports annually on the implementation of the Health Insurance Act including the implementation of the non-paying scheme. The House of Representatives receives this report. There are reports at macro level, but Mrs Bouwmeester is right: we can name those three groups per insurer in the monitor by allowing us to tailor the funding to those three groups. What are the criteria for outflowing? For the scheme where I can designate groups, the broad consultation between health insurers and municipalities has just begun. Criteria are, for example, whether someone has a long-term benefit or whether debt relief is possible. The route also looks at other types of criteria such as the possibility to withhold the benefit and to pay it to insurers. I expect to have more clarity about this arrangement in the autumn. It's about getting out of the penalty regime and getting into the scheme. I have more clarity about this in the autumn. I am now discussing with insurers and municipalities how we can make this work successfully. We are thinking, for example, of a limited period of two or three years, of forms of deduction and direct collection and of taking into account capacity. The question arises as to when people are eligible for the final remission of the residual debt. These and more precise conditions are now being discussed. I will include this in the compensation scheme later this year. The question is whether the designation of a target group is feasible. We have now indicated that we are in agreement on the target group of welfare recipients. I want to start with this group. I'd like to see how that welfare group is doing first. Then I want to look at possibilities for other groups. For the implementation of the arrangements, I would point out that we must start small and not do everything at once. This is necessary in order to ensure that the arrangements run smoothly. Furthermore, I have been asked about the level to which I would like to fix the administrative fine. Moreover, I can only adopt them with a ministerial arrangement once the bill has been accepted by both chambers. If I want to establish a reduced penalty regime and allow this regime to enter on 1 January 2016, I have to set the premium eight weeks before that. If I want to be able to establish a lower administrative premium for 2016 this bill must have been dealt with by the Upper House in October.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u68	I would like to come back to a target group scheme for people on welfare benefits. I think it is very good that this is being looked at, but we also know that there are people with other benefits, people with disability benefits or people with a Wajong benefit, who are in a similar situation. I call on the Minister to broaden the group. There's gonna be startup problems. There will be hooks and eyes that need to be solved, but the group can be expanded from day one. Then this can be included in the solution, instead of taking place after one or two years.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u69	The point is that you put together such an arrangement in such a way that you have the right criteria, so that the right group is included. For that, you have to work out the entire trajectory. I want to start with a specific group and then see how it goes and if it works. Is it successful or not? We can already include all kinds of groups, but I'm a little afraid of SVB or Tax Administration problems. I want to keep it under control so we can do it with a proper trajectory.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u70	I understand that, but I'm also looking at the Secretary of State for Social Affairs. I believe, in fact, that people who receive welfare benefits and who have been found unable to work, or those who have disability benefits or Wajong benefit, who are reasonably comparable benefits, can be the same target group as those who benefit from welfare benefits. That's why I call these two groups. I understand very well what the Minister means. You should not include all groups of young, old or However, this is a question of benefits. So there's already a relationship. We know that the perspective on the labour market is nil. I think it is a shame to leave a group of people in that scheme for another or two years, when we know that their problems are the same. We all agree that they should actually be freed from that arrangement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u71	We do not have a difference of opinion on the substance. If you make such an arrangement, you want the groups to get out. Can I do it like this? We're in agreement on the welfare recipients. We can see if it is very easy to link a Wajong group to it, because for example there are easy criteria for it. We'll see if it doesn't get too complicated. We will look at this with a positive eye, taking into account its feasibility. We do not disagree on this in principle, but I do want the regulation to remain enforceable. I want maximum effect. If we can easily link a Wajong beneficiary to it, we have one group that is easy to get along with. If there's any kind of complication that makes it tricky, we won't do it. That's my proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u72	In my term, I have called on the Minister to give priority to tax-paying people who are working hard and who are nevertheless unable to make ends meet and who cannot pay their health insurance contributions. I therefore call on the Minister to involve that group in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u73	Of course, that group is very difficult to define, but it is an important group. We cut the premium. This is a measure that will benefit this group. What is also important for this group is that, if they want to, these people will quickly enter the other practical regime where they do not have to pay for that storage. So they can very easily get rid of that 30% if they come into the regime we are discussing with insurers and other stakeholders. So that really offers a way out for that group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u74	But of course this also offers a way out for that group of people on welfare benefits. I see now that the Minister wants to take measures that only apply to people with benefits and not to those who work hard and who cannot make ends meet. The Minister says that it is very difficult to define that group, but of course you could also opt for people who are below a certain minimum wage or not for those who have benefits. You can also define this group in that way, so that the people who work hard and pay a lot of taxes are also included in these measures taken by the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u75	I think it is important that people who work hard, pay taxes and come through bad luck in such a regime should be helped out of it quickly. By lowering in this bill the standard premium they have to pay and ensuring that they can get out of that fine quickly in a practical way, we are really helping those people to get out of it. We cannot easily define the group. I do not rule out that we will ever be able to do so, but for the time being we cannot establish criteria for defining this group. Soon you will get to the previous bill that I submitted that Zorginstituut Nederland has said is impossible. So I would like to start with this group and keep in mind the question of how to link vulnerable groups to it. I have largely commented on the amendments in writing as far as they have been tabled before. A number of amendments were tabled later. I hope that I will be as complete as possible in my response to those amendments. To amendments which I cannot discuss because I do not have them, I will come back later, but I hope that I will be able to deal with them all in this way. I have already responded to Mrs Dijkstra's amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u76	Could you mention the number of the amendment, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u77	It is a question of the amendment to item No. 34, of which I have said, that will remove the incentive. I'd like to keep the stimulus and give people a perspective. In fact, I have come up with a practical solution for this, and that is why I do not recommend this amendment. I come to the Rutte amendment on item No. 42. I said I'd leave that judgment to the Chamber. This is the amendment proposing a range of 110% to 130%. In the amendment to item No. 43 by Mrs Bruins Slot is proposed to redirect the care allowance. I myself am very much in favour of this, but the Tax Administration could not deal with all this because of the fraud with the care payments, rent payments, etc. that has come up. He has taken an important measure that does not allow this to happen. In this amendment, I should like to say in my own words that this is a potential preventive measure which will increase the possibilities for combating late payments. I myself am very much in favour of this. The amendment builds on the exploration of the Healthcare Institute, the CJIB and the Tax Administration/Applications about the possibilities available to do so. In the optimal scenario, the Tax Administration pays the health care allowance directly to the health insurance provider. I'd love to, but that's gonna be really hard. That is why other scenarios are now being explored. The implementation technical aspect is incredibly important because it must be possible. It is discussed with the Healthcare Institute, the CAK and the Tax Administration as to whether it could be done through the CAK. I can't tell if that's gonna work and if so, on what time. If the conversion of the healthcare allowance to health insurers is feasible, this amendment can regulate this. My preference would then be for a ministerial arrangement rather than a General Administrative Measure, because it is mainly a technical implementation issue, but I leave the opinion on this amendment to the Chamber. So let there be no misunderstanding: I think it is very good, but we still have implementing questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u78	I am very pleased that the Minister has indicated that it is an important instrument. I have also deliberately made it a can-determine because you cannot implement it immediately in all situations. You have to be able to deliver customization in this. I can imagine the Minister saying that it should be a ministerial arrangement with regard to technical feasibility. So I'll take a look at that in consultation with the Legislative Office. My general question is this. Does this amendment give the Minister sufficient room to implement the solutions she is examining? Is the legal basis now well defined in such a way that all the solutions it now has in a row can be implemented within that amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u79	I assume so, where I leave the opinion on this amendment to the Chamber. If not, I will return to Mrs Bruins Slot. I think this is something we both want, but it's a technical problem. We both want it to be feasible, sound, non-fraud-sensitive et cetera and so we are looking for the best. So I say yes. If it's not, I'll be in touch. Then I come to the Bruins Slot amendment to part No. 44. That's about the experiment. I do not recommend this amendment. The legislation on defaulters is over the experimental phase: the provisions in question have been in place for some time, have been evaluated and are now being strengthened where necessary. There is no reason for experiments that could not be carried out within this law. There's a lot going on. We can see that this is now going well in practice and that best practices are being taken over from each other. This amendment makes it very complex, while, on the contrary, keeping the complexity as low as possible in this scheme, in order to ensure that it remains viable. That is why I reject the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u80	The aim of the CDA Group is also a law that is enforceable. With this experimental clause, the CDA Group wants to contribute to this. The various amendments tabled by my fellow Members show that there are still really different ideas about how to deal with this administrative penalty regime. I would therefore have liked the Minister to explain a little more precisely what she thinks is complex about the wording of this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u81	In the opinion of VWS lawyers, this amendment does not add anything to what is already possible and what is already being applied in practice. A person who outsources is immediately no longer covered by the administrative premium scheme, but pays the ordinary premium to his health insurance provider. This is the practice in Amsterdam and Weert, among others. It's not in the legal provisions of the Health Insurance Act that would hinder outflow. It is on the one hand in practical problems and on the other hand in policy considerations that health insurers or municipalities make in order to achieve that structural outflow. A working group is in the process of identifying these types of conditions for the outflow of recipients of assistance. For example, it concerns questions such as whether or not a person should be covered by a collective insurance scheme, how is debt forgiven, how much can someone repay, what insurance companies are eligible, what data should be exchanged and is it allowed to do so? The amendment does not take account of these considerations, all of which are outside the sphere of the Health Insurance Act and which cannot be resolved by this amendment either. If this amendment does not add anything and complicates matters, I would say: let us discourage it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u82	The approach of the CDA was indeed that on certain points you could do something about the administrative penalty regime. That is the primary argument for tabling this amendment. Am I to understand that the Minister doesn't think this is necessary at all? Or does she see any benefit in that? Which one is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u83	It's not necessary, because it's already possible. I shall now turn to the Bouwmeester amendment to part No. 45. This amendment links a pending procedure to a ministerial regime for the designation of groups that may be released from the administrative premium regime. I leave the opinion on this amendment to the Chamber. With this, I have provided an opinion on all the amendments. I had already done so in writing for the previous amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u84	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to thank all the spokesmen. It is new for me to speak with the spokesmen of this committee. A number of specific questions have been asked to me, and I would like to address them. I hope and expect that there will not be too many duplications. First of all, I would like to stress that all the spokesmen have said that the debt problem is, of course, not just tailored to what we are discussing today, but very broad. I would like to say once again that I am working with a large number of fellow executives to provide relief on all these fronts, also in close consultation with the municipalities. That is what this debate is about, of course. The lead lies with the municipalities. It is therefore a matter of encouraging the municipalities and also supporting the interaction with health insurers by the directors in this case, the Minister of Social Affairs and the Secretary of State for Social Affairs. Let me just say today that I welcome this debate. Because this proposed legislation is now under discussion, you are of course offering solace. I like that very much. I see that we are always taking steps forward on all these fronts. I am also pleased to note that the Chamber sees the added value of this. I'm saying this very carefully now, but that's fun. Early warning and prevention play a major role in this debate. If there is a delay in the payment of the care premium, the health insurance provider is encouraged to let people know. Fortunately, that happens more and more. I believe that Mrs Leijten also said that it is very difficult for someone with a very small wallet, who already has debts, to choose between paying the rent, the care premium or gas and light. So it is very good that this early warning is on the table. It is also good that health insurers are encouraged to address late payments early. This has already been discussed with my colleague. In fact, the wider possibilities to flow out earlier contribute to the faster resolution of the whole debt problem. In short, that's nice. The spokesperson of the VVD has asked how to prevent people from re-entering after they have been discharged. It is, of course, incredibly important that the working group of municipalities and health insurance companies identify precisely what is needed to prevent the influx of welfare recipients from the administrative regime. This is important for health insurers, but it is also important for the people who are involved. Municipalities can contribute to this by making agreements with the health insurance companies and, for example, by withholding the premium and paying it from the benefit. You can also see that this is happening more and more. I would just like to make it very clear that I cannot impose this on congregations. However, I can encourage this, and I do so with everything that is in me, because I see the added value of it. In addition, it is of course important that municipalities look at the individual. Some spokesmen, including Mrs Klever, have said that they are not just welfare recipients. All groups in society may have to deal with debts. We have actually seen this in recent years, especially in the context of the economic crisis. The point is that municipalities also help these people. You can see in practice that municipalities take the policy freedom to support people with an income of up to 120% of the minimum wage. They're workers, too. So they are not just beneficiaries of benefits, but they are also low-income people. These can be helped by the municipalities. It is good to underline that. The Minister also addressed this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u85	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for pointing out that she continues to bring this problem to the attention of the municipalities, with everything she has in her mind. That is a valid point. I asked a specific question. I notice that municipalities have a great deal of interest in debt issues. Payment of the care premium is part of that. I was just referring to the people who are pouring out of the administrative regime, an annoying but safe environment in which people are sure that the premium is being paid and reflowing back into the normal regime. Those aren't always beneficiaries of benefits. That group may be extra vulnerable and needs extra attention for a while. Can the Secretary of State undertake to draw specific attention to this group in her talks with municipalities on debt relief? So that's the group that just came out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u86	Sure. This group has almost always had similar problems. Almost always, this group also has to do with a broader debt problem. So these people aren't just in debt to the health insurance company. In short, this group is already in debt relief. That brings me to a question from Mrs Bruins Slot. She asked me: does a community not only monitor the outflow, but also what happens to people when they get out of debt relief and when they get better again? That is, of course, also very important. I'll get back to you on that. So I can say yes to both questions. I come to a question from the D66 Group. Mrs Dijkstra asked if the best practices are followed by other municipalities, because good example is a good example. I can say yes to that too. We see that around the integral debt relief municipalities no longer all invent the wheel, but that they also take over from each other. I also promote good practice and knowledge exchange. We organise platform meetings for municipalities about business cases, prevention and early warning, which I was just talking about. There's another one in May. In addition, weekly practical examples appear on the website effectiveluithulp.nl. During my work visits I see that this also pays off. I see that municipalities develop and learn from the lessons and successes of other municipalities. For example, I have seen the beautiful way of doing things from Amsterdam in the context of prevention. Then I'm talking about getting there early. This approach is also used by the Groningen Credit Bank and the municipality of Assen. So you can see that the stick is indeed being taken over. This strengthens my confidence that this will also be done in the area of cooperation between health insurers and municipalities. That's already happening, by the way. I will continue to encourage this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u87	Someone responded to this debate by e-mail. Of course, it's also being watched at home. That person wrote: I am in such a situation; it is not that I have not paid my premium, but I do see that most of the large municipalities are set as an example. That person noticed that they manage to do it there, but that so little is happening in the smaller municipalities. I would like to know from the Secretary of State if she can say anything more about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u88	Sure. A number of spokesmen have asked for this. At the moment 93% of all municipalities in the Netherlands are already in the process of offering collective health insurance to the people we've been talking about all morning or afternoon. A very limited number of municipalities do not yet do so. As far as I am concerned, this debate leads us to take a look at this limited number of municipalities. These are very small municipalities, for example the Wadden municipalities, but that does not alter the fact that you have to strive for 100%. I have already said within my own department: we are going to see if we can actually make it 100%. After all, the high added value has already been proven.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u89	Then my question to the Secretary of State is whether she also has the tools to ensure that it is 100%.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u90	Of course, you can always excite city leaders. I have a lot of 06 numbers in my phone from aldermen fighting poverty and debt relief. So I can always use it. But for the sake of clarity, I cannot force municipalities to do so, because this is about the policy freedom of municipalities. It is also good to emphasise that we, as a cabinet, have a structural extra 100 million in order to be able to do this in the fight against poverty. 90 million of them go to municipalities. As you can see, municipalities sometimes also use these resources to provide relief on this issue. That's what I wanted to say about best practice. The Group of the Party of European Socialists has asked whether people are sufficiently familiar with all the regulations designed for them. If someone is familiar with municipal debt relief, then of course it is first examined whether someone really makes use of all the regulations that apply to him or her. Very often people do not know enough and very often you can, of course, increase someone's income. Moreover, this is not only the case in the case of debt relief. When people contact municipalities, including welfare benefits, customer managers at the social services can always check with the customer in question whether he has already made use of everything he is entitled to. So I can answer this question that that is certainly the case. For the sake of clarity, however, I should like to mention that people who are in financial difficulties are still waiting too long or too long sometimes out of shame for them to knock. If I may, I would also like to use this debate again to call on people who come into contact with debt to go to the municipality as soon as possible, including to prevent it, to get those debts resolved, because the longer you wait, the more difficult it becomes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u91	The call is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u92	I fully endorse that call, "of course," I would almost say. I do wonder whether research has already been carried out into the familiarity of this scheme: the transfer of the WTCG and the Cer to local level. Everyone I talk about has never heard of it. If you call municipalities, they don't know what it's about. So there is a major discrepancy between what the Secretary of State says now and the signals from practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u93	The debt relief workers know, like no other, what resources people can avail themselves of. As the Chamber is aware, we are in the process of broad decentralisation. I do this together with my colleague Van Rijn. We also want to equip the district teams, the employees in the municipalities, as it is so beautifully called, so that they can provide a good insight into what people and families are entitled to at the kitchen tables.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u94	Of course, there are also ordinary people who do not have debt relief. They're floating around somewhere and they still have a problem. Would the Secretary of State and the Secretary of State at VWS like to look closely at how she can see whether people know about this arrangement and how there are signs that this arrangement is not as well known to us? That is what I would like to link with the research done by the Minister of Health with GPs on avoiding care due to the cost of care. GPs look at how big the target group is, who they are, what's causing it, you name it. Maybe it can take into account the local scheme, which is there, but apparently unknown. Maybe those investigations can be linked. This regulation would not keep people who have no money away from care and from debt.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u95	That's exactly what we're trying to do by looking at what people are entitled to almost individually. Together with these people, we make that very clear. This allows you to capture a lot of things in the prevention and early warning.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u96	What's the position of homeless people in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u97	Roof and homeless people, of course, often have a point of contact, especially in large municipalities, in central municipalities. This expertise is certainly present at that window. The CDA Group asked how the Participation Act works and whether it contributes to the prevention of such problems. I can say yes to that, too. That's two-way. As I said, municipalities with this collective health insurance can mean a lot for minima. That's lucky, too. That goes on the basis of the Participation Act, Article 57. In this way, municipalities can indeed pay the care premium directly. That is what we have enshrined in the law. In addition, on the basis of the Jobs Agreement and quota, we are really trying to get people to work. The employers have said that they will create 125,000 extra places. If people are employed, they will at least have the minimum wage and are no longer in benefits. This will, of course, make it easier for them to pay their health insurance contributions. The added value of the Participation Act, which is linked to it, is therefore two-fold.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u98	Then it is important that as many people as possible have access to this collective health insurance. Evil tongues sometimes claim that if the herd becomes too large for municipalities, the requirements for access to collective health insurance are made more stringent. Does the Secretary of State recognize these signals?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u99	Under the previous cabinet, municipalities were allowed to offer this to people with an income of up to 110% of the minimum wage. We let that go. Municipalities can now decide for themselves how much percentage minimum wage they offer such a policy. The majority of the municipalities are up to 120%. And sometimes they even go up to 130%. That gives the citizen courage, I would say.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u100	Can I translate that in such a way that the Secretary of State says that in recent years we have seen a development in which collective health insurance is opened up more widely? Is there any figures underneath that support this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u101	I have just said that 93% of the municipalities are in the process of offering such a collective policy, often up to 120% of the minimum wage. In that respect, we have that insight. It is also because health insurers, of course, make good agreements with municipalities in the regions concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u102	I see that Mrs Bruins Slot wishes to interrupt again, but we have agreed that the interruptions go in two.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u103	My question may not have been properly formulated...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u104	But...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u105	I meant the number of people.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u106	That's a clarification.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u107	We have, of course, an understanding of the number of beneficiaries of assistance. I could look into whether we can also see how many of those welfare recipients are offered this policy. I don't know if we have that information. Maybe I can come back to it in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u108	I'm a little confused. I was worried about that question, too. How many people get such a collective health insurance through the municipality? On Mrs Bruins Slot's question, the Secretary of State's answer is only about welfare recipients, while she herself said that people are also entitled to a minimum wage of up to 120%. How many people are we talking about in total? That is what I would like to know, if necessary in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u109	I replied to Mrs Bruins Slot's question in the context of the welfare recipients, because she also asked for the Participation Act, and of course this includes assistance. I have already said that municipalities can offer this policy to anyone with income up to 120% of the minimum wage. That can be a benefit, but it can also be a wage.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u110	I would like to know that number, because that of course reveals an underlying problem, namely that the care premium is far too high and is no longer payable for many people. Anyway, that's more for the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u111	I think so too, but that does not mean that we speak with one voice. Mrs Klever has asked a question which she actually asks me with a detour, a U-turn if I may say so through the Minister: what exactly is the role of the bailiff in these cases? I don't think I'll tell you anything new when I say that the bailiff gets a verdict from the judge first and then tries to acquire the resources of the person concerned. If there is no response from that person, the bailiff can look at the income and the assets through the UWV policy administration. Then, if there is still no payment, he can confiscate the source of income or the assets. This can also be accompanied by a visit to the house. In addition, it is good to note that looking at what is in the house is very little in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u112	The point, of course, was that there should be far more checks on people who do not want to pay their health insurance contributions. The Minister refers to the bailiff, but we want physical checks that answer the question whether people really can't pay the premium or whether they don't want to. You'll see soon enough when you send an inspector out. You can first make a risk analysis to determine which groups are in most of the defaulters. Then you can send an inspector to see if it's people who don't want to pay or who can't pay. People who do not want to pay must, of course, be treated much more firmly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u113	I have a lot of contact with my colleague in the field of security and justice. We have these instruments for a reason. They are also legal instruments. I answered the question about the bailiff to point out that people who didn't want to pay must be incredibly behind their pants. We agree on that. I think it is an excellent path that the health insurance companies and the healthcare institute in the Netherlands are taking to find out the resources. So we have good agreements about this in this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u114	The execution test shows that people who do not want to pay are not identified. This requires an individual approach and the Secretary of State is not going to do so. I advocate sending inspectors out to identify those people. We have to keep the healthcare system affordable all of us, and if some people don't want to pay for it, the others pay more. Is the Secretary of State prepared to use the individual approach for people who do not want to pay?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u115	The Minister has already addressed this in detail. I would like to emphasise once again how we have dealt with this in the Netherlands, including in the case of judicial collection cases, including by the bailiff instrument. Furthermore, I believe that the Minister has given an exhaustive answer to this question. The CDA had asked another question about aftercare. The CDA is afraid that the aftercare is not delivered properly. We've started an investigation into aftercare. Maybe the Chamber doesn't know that yet, but we're in the process of evaluating the Municipal Debt Aid Act. The Court will receive this evaluation in 2016. This kind of thing is part of it. If there are concrete signals that aftercare is not delivered properly, I would like to hear them. I don't know them, but I'd like to know if they'd be there. Mrs Bruins Slot also asked about the position of the Tax Administration as a preferred creditor. I often get this question and have also discussed it many times with Mr Wiebes. Of course, the IRS is preferred. He always is as a creditor, even in the event of bankruptcy. However, we are currently looking in an inter-departmental project group at simplifying the unhindered footage. The Tax Administration is in the process of taking an execution test on that. I promised to come back to the Chamber immediately to tell you whether or not I will incorporate the cost-sharing standard into the premium-free foot as soon as the execution test is there. This can complicate the batter-free foot as such. One of the things is that the cost-sharing standard still needs to be introduced in the unhindered foot. With all the partners, we're looking at how we can shape that. One of the points of discussion is that the cost-sharing standard still needs to be introduced in the unhindered foot. The Tax Administration is now in the process of taking an execution test on that. I promised your Chamber, in another setting by the way, that I would immediately return to the Chamber when that execution test is in place, to tell the Chamber whether or not I incorporate that cost-sharing standard into the unwound foot. This can complicate the batter-free foot as such. That's what I wanted to say about the IRS. The Minister has already addressed this in detail. I would like to emphasise once again how we have dealt with this in the Netherlands, including in the case of judicial collection cases, including by the bailiff instrument. Furthermore, I believe that the Minister has given an exhaustive answer to this question. The CDA had asked another question about aftercare. The CDA is afraid that the aftercare is not delivered properly. We've started an investigation into aftercare. Maybe the Chamber doesn't know that yet, but we're in the process of evaluating the Municipal Debt Aid Act. The Court will receive this evaluation in 2016. This kind of thing is part of it. If there are concrete signals that aftercare is not delivered properly, I would like to hear them. I don't know them, but I'd like to know if they'd be there. Mrs Bruins Slot also asked about the position of the Tax Administration as a preferred creditor. I often get this question and have also discussed it many times with Mr Wiebes. Of course, the IRS is preferred. He always is as a creditor, even in the event of bankruptcy. However, we are currently looking in an inter-departmental project group at simplifying the unhindered footage. The Tax Administration is in the process of taking an execution test on that. I promised to come back to the Chamber immediately to tell you whether or not I will incorporate the cost-sharing standard into the premium-free foot as soon as the execution test is there. This can complicate the batter-free foot as such. One of the things is that the cost-sharing standard still needs to be introduced in the unhindered foot. With all the partners, we're looking at how we can shape that. One of the points of discussion is that the cost-sharing standard still needs to be introduced in the unhindered foot. The Tax Administration is now in the process of taking an execution test on that. I promised your Chamber, in another setting by the way, that I would immediately return to the Chamber when that execution test is in place, to tell the Chamber whether or not I incorporate that cost-sharing standard into the unwound foot. This can complicate the batter-free foot as such. That's what I wanted to say about the IRS.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u116	In this context, I have another question concerning my amendment on the health allowance. Is the Secretary of State confident that the introduction of the amendment will not create unnecessary complications for the unwound foot?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u117	You can tell those two apart. It's an apple and a pear, if you don't mind my saying so. The unwound foot really needs to be established before you start working with someone in debt relief. What I am trying to do now, together with my colleagues in the cabinet, the Tax Office and the Justice Department, is to keep that batter-free foot as lean and mean as possible, to put it in good Dutch. We can see that fixing that foot is very complicated, because you have so many different parts. That's one thing, one trajectory. Mrs Bruins Slot's question has already been answered by the Minister. It is true for the whole cabinet that it would be nice in itself to be able to offset the healthcare allowance immediately, but I think that the Minister has given a good answer on behalf of the entire cabinet and also on behalf of the Tax Administration. I'll see what's left of me. I do not have to go into the amendments anymore, because the Minister has already given them all an opinion. Then I came to the end of my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u118	Thank you. Then we have come to the end of the first-term response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u119	Can I add one more thing? I just got the answer to a question from Mrs Bruins Slot. How many people are in a collective health insurance scheme for minimums in the Netherlands? That was the question, by the way, from the side of Mrs... Oh, now I've lost that name. I'm sorry. The lady from the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u120	Clever.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u121	Klever, if you'll excuse me, we don't always have to deal with each other. It's 560,000 people all over the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u122	Thank you. Then I'll suspend the meeting for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u123	Mr. Chairman. The Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport boasts that her policy is the motto: from systems to people. Today we are talking about a very resilient system that knows limits in its implementation. I may not quote the Minister in full, but nevertheless: the system is not really capable of dealing with that human dimension. I asked the Minister for a reflection on that, but she is going through that. I think this is an important observation. There are so many people involved and it's so complicated that, if you want to change something that is politically widely supported, the system hinders it. It should be the other way around. If we decide something, systems must be able to be of service to it. Apparently, it hasn't. Now the Minister has found something on that. She says, "I can change the system tremendously, but most of all, I want the outflow to change. People who are now in the penalty regime because they haven't paid the care premium for six months because they can't, or because they don't want to, have to pour out anyway. They should not be permanently in a regime in which they pay 30% of the premium. I like that. That is a good step and we welcome it. People who pay the bounty are out of the regime. They're paying off their debt. After a certain period, the remaining debt lapses. So it's actually some sort of rescue route aimed at lagging behind in the health insurance premium. I do have some questions about that. This would be settled through a ministerial arrangement. I would ask the Minister to discuss this with the Chamber. We have been working on this bill for a long time, or on improving this regulation. I think it's okay if we take note of it. Can the Minister state that there is no legal inequality? Can it indicate that it is not the willingness of the insurer or the municipality to participate, but that this is at least available to anyone who reports? How do people report for the scheme? Maybe it's an issue of elaboration, but should people raise their fingers? Are they gonna be reminded of this? Are they being escorted here? With regard to the question of whether we are still seeing the regulation, I know that Mrs Bouwmeester of the Labour Party is in the process of making an amendment. It already has an amendment, but it may need to be extended by the fact that we are still seeing the regulation. If that happens, I am happy to support that amendment. Perhaps, however, the Minister can simply agree with us that we are still seeing this at all and that, if necessary, we can also judge it. There will also be people who do want to participate in the scheme but cannot participate in it. This is the case, for example, when they are in another debt relief process and there is little left per month. Or is the payment of the care premium always included in a debt relief process? I'll take a look at the Secretary of State for Social Affairs. Of course, it would be a shame if one route crossed the other and actually made impossible. There will be people who want to participate in this scheme, but who simply do not have the means to pay the care premium. So what are we gonna do? Then how did these people get out of trouble? Those are all questions that arise with me. They may need to be taken into account in the development of the scheme. If the Minister and the Secretary of State can answer that already, I'd be happy to hear it. We have tabled an amendment which states that the fine must be applied, or should be partly used, for repayment. We'll keep that up for now. It remains, of course, that there are people in the penalty system with a possible hopeless situation if that fine remains too high for debt relief. Maybe they don't fall within the discharge control. That is why we are holding up the amendment. If the Minister says that this overlaps or conflicts too much, she will, of course, have plenty of room in the second term to convince the SP. The Minister spoke about target groups that need to flow out. That is a point that is still being worked out. A plan is now being carefully drawn up aimed at the first target group, namely those who receive welfare benefits. A plan is carefully made so that systems don't get confused; all at your service. However, we must also do this right. There are more people with benefits. They are entitled to benefits for another reason, for example because of incapacity for work or because of a condition which they have already suffered at birth or during their childhood. Then it's called Wajong or WIA. People with benefits like this can't have a job perspective either. They may also be in a hopeless situation. I think it is good that the Minister wants to take this and look at it positively. However, I would also like to hear from her whether she can still inform the Chamber about this so that we can watch. If you are in the penalty regime for three years and you also pay three years, you pay €1,000 fine for €600 debt. That fact should create the deterrent effect of this regulation, but people will eventually be confronted with it. Mrs Dijkstra was well aware of this in her first term. We have talked about paying that fine and the obstacles to the debt relief. It would be very bad if there were a target group scheme, while people who actually fit in couldn't get in because we're just introducing a little too cautious. I had tabled a motion on this, but I will drop it because the Minister wants to look at it in a positive way. That's good, of course. I've made two other motions. The first one is about collection costs. I asked whether it would be possible to charge the health insurance provider for the collection costs incurred during the first six months. Of course, people are to blame for six months. They'll have to relieve them. They can also build up a debt at Zorginstituut Nederland because there will be collection costs. However, a health insurance provider also charges for collection costs, which he might have been able to avoid if he had dealt with it in a different way. I think it's okay if we don't stack debt on debt. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that people's debt, in addition to back-up premium payments, often includes high collection costs;]] [[believes that health insurers are responsible for preventing people from entering the administrative regime;]] [[considers that a build-up of debt is undesirable;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that when a person is notified to the administrative regime, the collection costs incurred are borne by the health insurance provider and not by the notified person,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33683-47]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u124	It has always been said that it will have such a deterrent effect if people are fined 30% on top of their premium, that this scheme would become unnecessary by itself. That was said during the defense by Minister Klink of the bill in the Chamber. There is nothing less true, however. We see that there are more people in the scheme every year. There's a lot more people in the scheme than they're getting out. A so-called "propulsion lake" of nearly 100,000 people has emerged. They have actually been in this arrangement since the beginning. This arrangement was never designed to be endless. I kind of challenged the minister and asked her to come up with a plan to solve this. That's where she went. That's why I'm filing the next motion. As far as I am concerned, this motion is a means of finding a solution. So if the Minister sees room to move with, or if she wants to meet another deadline, then I'm prepared to take a good look at that. I am concerned that we are also simply setting targets. They're in the motion I'm about to file. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is a so-called reservoir of nearly 100,000 people who have been in the administrative regime since its inception;]] [[considers that a permanent stay in the administrative regime has never been the intention of the law;]] [[calls on the government to draw up a plan to drain the reservoir of nearly 100,000 people by 1 August 2017,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33683-48]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u125	Two short points.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u126	Shortly, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u127	I asked what the municipal collective schemes look like. We know 560,000 people use it. But are those nice insurances offered to the citizens? One buys off its own risk, the other has additional insurance. It's all mandatory. Is that what comparative research has been done? If not, is the government prepared to do so? It seems to me that municipalities can learn from each other. I would not agree with the idea that these are not good arrangements. I think it has a charm in itself when such a scheme is offered to low-income people. A little in the style of the Animal Party, I conclude with: we also believe that there should be an income-dependent care premium. For then we will be rid of this huge monstrosity, this huge scheme, with all good intentions, all the consultation tables, all the obligations and all the shuffling with paper and care allowance to get people out of a pay-as-you-go and the penalty regime. If people pay contributions according to their capacity, and if they can pay them, then we will see that all the non-customers who have entered the scheme as a result of the economic crisis no longer have any problems with paying the care premium.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u128	Mrs Leijten and I will never agree on the usefulness and need of an income-dependent care premium. We think that is a very bad idea, the SP believes in it. I'm sure it's all there. But if you now know that people at the minimum level in the Netherlands have been fully compensated for any increase in the premium and any increase in their own risk for years now, Mrs Leijten knows that since the arrival of the basic insurance scheme these people have been paying the same net amount every year, what is the difference for this group between their income-dependent care premium and the current system? Net cannot make any difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u129	We wouldn't have seen that there are far more low-income people in the pay-as-you-go scheme than high-income people. If you pump around with the care allowance, we say: the 5 billion you pump around for the lowest incomes can be solved by reducing the care premium accordingly and increasing income-dependently. We've passed that on, the plans are there, it can be introduced. Three quarters of households continue to pay or improve the same contribution. We've discussed that a lot. But what matters most to me is that it saves a lot of bureaucracy. Do you know what it is? If you have a low income and you have to pay all your fixed expenses at the beginning of the month, after which several additional supplements will come in later, then those surcharges are meant for something, but then you stop the resulting holes. That is why I would like to take a positive look at the CDA proposal, although I am not sure if we are going along with it. We also see, of course, that stopping other holes, even if the care allowance is perhaps meant for a care premium, is sometimes also necessary, for example, if stopping that hole means that you are not put out on the street because you can pay your rent. If there is also a voluntary element in the CDA proposal, we are totally in favour of it. In this way, we would like to solve the problems that people have with paying the healthcare premium. I would remind Mr Rutte that people on low incomes pay a quarter of their income to care, which is correspondingly higher than those on high incomes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u130	Another very long story to talk around the facts. The net contribution for people at minimum level has not increased at all since the arrival of basic insurance; it has been the same for many years. Mrs Leijten's plan does not change anything, except that people in it no longer receive a health allowance which, in her view, is used for other things, of which act.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u131	That can happen, because that is the reality for households who have to tie one end to the other. It wasn't a standard comment at all. You may notice that, but this is the reality for people who really have to close one hole to another. At the minimum level it will probably be the same on paper, but if your rent has risen, if the minimum wage has fallen and if the social minimum has fallen...that's all happened since Rutte was there; I'm talking about the Prime Minister, the nameake of this MP.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u132	You were finishing up; therefore I thought it was going well, within the time. Can you finish now, please?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u133	So you can see that this will, of course, cause people at the minimum level problems. I would point out, moreover, that an income-dependent care premium is also very advantageous for middle-income people who are no longer receiving the care allowance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u134	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank both directors for answering the questions. The PVV Group supports the measures aimed at improving the system of non-payers, but calls for explicit attention to be paid to workers with a minimum income, whether employed, self-employed or self-employed. We attach great importance to the commitment that this group should also be looked at to ensure that it can flow out more quickly and not just look at welfare recipients and other people with benefits. People who pay taxes should not be disadvantaged as far as we are concerned. Furthermore, the PVV Group considers that the measures on the hard core of the defaulters and measures on immigrants do not go far enough. I shall therefore table two motions for resolutions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is a hard core of defaulters who have not paid a care premium for years and refuse to cooperate in a solution;]] [[Considering that these persistent defaulters are abusing our healthcare system because they are now receiving all the care;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that persistent contributors who spend more than two years in the pay-as-you-go regime and refuse to cooperate in a solution are only entitled to reimbursement of acute and medically necessary care,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that immigrants are three times more likely to be unpayable than natives;]] [[calls on the Government to take targeted measures to deal more effectively with ethnic delinquency,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Klever. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33683-49]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Klever. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33683-50]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u135	As I have already said, I am thinking here of the targeted use of inspectors for house visits and the linking of data files, but we also welcome any other approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u136	Mr. Chairman. Many thanks to the directors for the comprehensive answer in second term. This was the second deadline, and we are now working on the third, but we are nevertheless grateful for the comprehensive answer. I must say that I have really received adequate answers to my questions. That's good. It is very good to note that the cabinet is firmly committed to ensuring that the healthcare premium is paid by everyone. The penalty regime at the Zorginstituut is a necessary evil, because not paying should not pay. At the same time, however, very important steps are being taken to ensure that people can flow out as quickly as possible and that those who are committed to paying their premium return to a normal regime as soon as possible. That is a real step forward. There is also a specific focus on debt relief for that group. This is pure profit, because in this way debts will be repaid as quickly as possible, the parties concerned will have a perspective and there will be a normal relationship between the health insurance provider and the contributor. We are very much in favour of this. I am also very pleased that the Minister supports our amendment, which really provides a legal guarantee for the use of the average nominal premium. At the same time, the amendment provides a decent band within which the fine premium can be determined. Finally. The VVD supports the specific focus on the problem among the beneficiaries of assistance. We, too, would like more people to be able to use that focus, so that group could get bigger. For the time being, however, we think that the most important thing is for us to guide this very large group and to keep an eye on the problem of implementation. We have seen too many times in recent years that we have lost our good intentions in combination with complex implementation. We cannot allow this to happen with this law and the prevention of debts surrounding the Health Insurance Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u137	Mr. Chairman. I thank the rulers for their first-term response. The question is what period we are now in. However, today, at least in two terms, we are discussing the amendment of the bill. The minister said that a third of the people are late in payment. The influx is still higher than the outflux. We are all very concerned about this. It is partly linked to the economic crisis, it is said. Yet you can see that the percentage has been the same for years. It's been around 2.5% for years. The Minister said that the measures contained in the bill should lead to a few tens of thousands of contributors less. Can it make an effort? We attach great importance to the fact that something is really going to change, large-scale. Would it not be good to agree that we should evaluate this, should the law be introduced? Then we can see if it gets us what we want. I come to the best practices. The health insurance companies take action together with municipalities. There's a covenant. As I understand the Minister, the practical details and the additional conditions are still to come. Can she keep us informed of the state of play? As far as D66 is concerned, everyone should be given the opportunity to get rid of that administrative fine. Debts still have to be redeemable. We wanted to deal with this in our amendment. The minister says you shouldn't do that in the law, I'm going to do that in execution. I'm really sensitive to the Minister's argument. I will therefore think very carefully about whether I will withdraw the amendment or not. At the moment I am inclined not to withdraw it, because I do want the Minister's guarantee that if we do not include it in the law, it will be implemented and that everyone will be treated equally and involved in it, just as it would be if it were incorporated into the law through the amendment. But I think we both want to achieve the same thing. The Minister further states that she will respect privacy. I expect nothing less from the Minister. She's looking at early warning and possibilities. I would like to know from her when we can clarify this. We're working on it. How are all these files linked? D66 thinks privacy is very important. When can the Minister tell us more about the state of play?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u138	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank both directors, the Secretary of State and the Minister, for the answers they have given. If there is anything that has emerged clearly in this debate, it is that in the case of defaulters, it is often people with a very complex debt problem. People filling one hole with another. People who have been in trouble because of family conditions, because of divorce, because of the loss of work. You can't always expect people to pull themselves out of the swamp like a Baron von Munchhausen. It is therefore a good thing that people are helped with this problem and that we do so effectively. I believe that the Minister is quite right to say that health insurers have a social duty to do so. That's what the CDA thinks. That is why I find it impossible to believe that there is at least one health insurance provider who does not have enough work to do on this issue. There's gotta be another way. We talked about this a year ago. Then we found out that what we wanted in the law, making a distinction between non-cannons and non-willers, was technically not feasible. In the written preparation and debate today, I noticed that the Minister has really been looking for other ways to achieve this. I am very curious to see what criteria will come up for what is a good payer who is allowed to pour out. That is why I find Mrs Bouwmeester's proposal to link up a veil there, even sympathetic. For example, the Chamber can think further about it and consider whether the Minister is taking good steps in doing so. I am also pleased that the Minister supports the CDA amendment in order to allow people's care payments to be offset by the care premium. I have indeed made a determination of this. I think it is very important that this can happen in order to prevent people from getting into more trouble. You have to stop people from entering the penalty regime. But I can also see that sometimes there are situations where you have to put a brake on it. In that light, I was very pleased with the answer of the Secretary of State, who said: "No, no matter what we do, we respect the unwound foot. In other words, we respect that people must have a certain minimum standard of living. That's the money they get from the state. We won't ask for anything more back than that." I think this is a very important guarantee that lies below, because this means that we can carry it out responsibly. Of course, I also have a few questions. I thought the Minister was a little reluctant when it comes to the 10,000 people who were wrongly caught in the penalty regime. The minister says that sometimes people don't pay attention. I found the example given by Mrs Leijten very appealing: someone is demented and ends up in a nursing home, the director may not pay the bill a number of times, and they are therefore lagging behind. I think there are a variety of causes that lead people to get into this. Over the past two years I have encountered a number of cases of people who have told me that it has taken them so much effort to prove that they were unjustly unpayable. Sometimes they had to call a lawyer or send letters to six agencies. I think we should pay a little more attention to this so that it does not occur as often as possible, but also so that it is clear what is causing this to go wrong. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that almost 10,000 people were wrongly reported for the administrative fine last year;]] [[considers that it is very complex to prove that the insured person has been wrongly notified for the administrative fine;]] [[invites the Government, with the Health Insurance Institute and health insurance companies, to consult on the most common causes of unfair reporting of defaulters, to formulate solutions and to inform the Chamber about them when the next Insurance Monitor is published,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bruins Slot and Mr Bouwmeester. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33683-51]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u139	Mr. Chairman. There's one more thing I notice, including in the Insurance Monitor. The CDA considers it important that we pay more attention to this. It is about the fact that the young people between 18 and 25 years old and the young adults between 25 and 30 years old are, in my opinion, those who are already very mature and are never going to pay a premium of around 80,000. That average is twice as high as in people over 30 years of age. This has something to do with the start that young people have to make with paying the care premium. I'd like to pay more attention to that, because you're entitled to care, but this also means you have a duty to pay the premium. What can the Minister do to identify exactly what is happening there? Finally, I have a question for the Secretary of State. She said very clearly at the end of the first term that there are 560,000 people in the collective health insurance scheme. Did I get that correctly? Are we talking about 560,000 people in collective health insurance? What percentage is that of the beneficiaries? So I don't quite understand what the Secretary of State said. I believe that today, in this debate, we have been able to take an important step towards achieving a more effective law of indemnities. Thank you for this pleasant debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u140	Mr. Chairman. We have taken good steps today by talking about preventing people from becoming ungrateful of the care premium and allowing people with a debt to flow more quickly. We cannot often mention how annoying that is for people. I have a motion, an explanation of an amendment, and I would like a commitment, all within three minutes. I shall begin with the motion concerning the fact that not all health insurers participate in the collection protocol. An insurance company says he's not in on it and he's shifting it to someone else. In my opinion, this also involves indirect risk selection. That's what the next motion for a resolution is about. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that any insured person is entitled to assistance in the event of late payment of the health insurance;]] [[Whereas health insurers who withdraw from participation in the debt collection protocol and immediately dispose of insured persons in the event of a late payment thereby pass on defaults to other health insurers;]] [[Whereas the transfer of non-payers to other health insurers is a disguised form of risk selection;]] [[calls on the Government to agree on an obligation for all health insurance companies to participate in the Protocol debt collection scheme of non-payers Health Insurance Act,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Bouwmeester. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33683-52]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u141	We have tabled an amendment calling for the ministerial arrangements to be sent to the Chamber. The Minister has made some very important proposals. These relate to groups that are allowed to pour out earlier, the level of the penalty regime and the fact that you go from the penalty regime to the health insurance provider. All this is aimed at paying the premium without being in debt for up to days. We want this arrangement to come to the Chamber in good time so that we can look at it quietly and assess it, because we are now talking in fairly abstract terms about the Minister's good intentions. We'd like to have a look at it. The amendments have been distributed. Finally, I would like to get a commitment. The Minister conducts research with the general practitioners into care avoidrs, people who say they do not want to receive care due to lack of money. The first question is when the results of this study will become available. The second question is whether this study can take into account the extent to which the scheme for income support for health care costs at local level is known to these people. This requires cooperation with the Secretary of State. It may be that people say that they do not know these regulations, that they have no money and that they have told the general practitioner that they have no concern. Can this be merged? When will the Chamber get the results of this investigation? We must prevent people from avoiding care and building debts. They must have the care they need.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u142	The second deadline has ended and we will continue to respond immediately by the cabinet. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u143	Mr. Chairman. The spokesperson of the SP Group stated that from systems to people with this law is not very successful. I think this is working very well. We have a system that we want to meet as much as possible in order to avoid default. We have a legislative proposal in which we have made a great deal of effort in this regard. However, we see that a law cannot solve everything and that is why in practice we deal with things that we cannot solve by law, because we put people at the centre. In the end, that is the result of what is at stake. So we are not being restricted by a system. Mrs Leijten asks whether the regulation I am making cannot pass through the House of Representatives, also because I have left Mrs Bouwmeester's amendment to the opinion of the Chamber. If the Chamber wants to take a look at this arrangement, then we can do this. However, if the Court votes earlier on this law and there are amendments to it that will double the rules, then they will also be in the law. I recommend that we look closely at the regulation and the amendments. Of course, I did not discourage these amendments for nothing. Mrs Bouwmeester has tabled another amendment, and I would like to take this with me at once, which regulates a veil on the ministerial rules governing the amount of the fine. I would really advise against this amendment unless the House does not mind that the regulation does not enter into force on 1 January. If I have to put this forward, even though I really have to ask the First Chamber for an emergency in order to introduce a lower fine premium on 1 January, I must convince the First Chamber to adopt all that law in October, otherwise I cannot reduce the fine premium by 1 January. If I have to preside over the regulation, we run the risk of a later introduction, because after the adoption of the legislative proposal we will have to wait for another month. Then it just can't be arranged anymore. I can, of course, write to the Chamber what I intend to do and that we have discussions on it, but there is no way of getting back to it. I really don't want to recommend that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u144	We are getting a lot of legislative proposals out of this, whereas those legislative proposals have already entered into force. So what exactly is the objection to the amendment? I think the First Chamber can agree perfectly with the law. However, we would like to know what the ministerial arrangement looks like. So there would only be a possible delay on that part. In my view, this delay does not apply to the entry into force of the whole law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u145	But that part is important. With this ministerial arrangement, I say that the fine premium will be less than 130%. I can't tell if it's going to be 115% or 120%. This is a cabinet decision after the entry into force of the law. I regret that we cannot reduce the premium by 1 January.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u146	Mr Rutte's amendment lays down the legal basis for the nominal premium. If the bill is adopted, it will be settled at least by 1 January.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u147	It's already in the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u148	Surely the Minister can ensure that, in my view, the ministerial arrangement has announced several ministerial arrangements which are already in the Chamber during the proceedings? In my view, therefore, it is not the Chamber that may cause delays, but rather the progress made by the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u149	No, because this proposal has to go through the parliamentary process. There is indeed a veil on the ministerial arrangement which sets out the groups. That is not a bad thing in this case, because we are not dealing with the fixing of premiums, which must be settled eight weeks before 1 January. We are therefore subject to different deadlines. If that arrangement is to be dealt with in the Chamber in November, it will not affect its entry into force. It does not affect the entry into force of the law, but it does affect the penalty premium. That is what this amendment is about. I think the deadline is too short, but I am not saying that I do not want to discuss it with the Chamber. However, we have to wait for an official veil for three weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u150	It's my amendment, so I'm gonna go ahead and ask for it. The Minister has made very good proposals, but just to be safe, we would like to take a look, also because we waited a year for this to be dealt with again. Why should it take a very long time for the Minister to determine the penalty regime? If the Minister decides quickly, we can get it to the Chamber soon. If it is also a very desirable system of fines, it can go on. So I don't understand the fear of delay very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u151	First, there must be a law that allows me to preside over a ministerial arrangement. There's no law unless it's through the Upper House. So I have to wait for that. I hope the First Chamber is very fast and that she has completed the legal process before the summer, but there is a change of the First Chamber. So I'm afraid that's what it is and not unwillingly that the First Chamber can't handle this before the summer recess and that it will be afterwards. After all, it takes a while before you have completed such a journey with questions and answers. If that is in October, the ministerial rules should be adopted directly on the basis of that law, because the premium must be fixed eight weeks before it starts. December and November you have to subtract from that. That premium should therefore be fixed in October. However, I can only do that if the law is there, because I cannot now fix any other premium on the basis of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u152	In my contribution, I asked what the Minister's intention was. How does she intend to fill this out? I would like to add some image and sound to that, but that did not happen and the Chamber would actually give the Minister carte blanche. However, we think this is so important that we do want to keep our finger on the wrist. If the Minister tells us what she intends to do and how we will see it in the future, or if there is another alternative, then I am fine with it. I do want the law to come into force on time, but if we tear down the procedure now, the Chamber will lose all grip, and that is precisely not the intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u153	The point is, it costs money. In this country, you always have to sit around the table with the Minister of Finance. So I can call a percentage here, but a cabinet decision has to be taken, because it costs money. So I can't just call it a random percentage here. That is a cabinet decision, and it must be taken in an orderly manner before I can discuss it with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u154	Maybe there's a way to find a solution. I'll just pass it on to Mrs. Bouwmeester and the Minister. Of course, you can choose to attach to this amendment a date of entry into force one year later than the date of entry into force of the law. The Minister may have carte blanche the first time to determine the percentage, but at the time when the law is in force for a year, the percentage is ultimately put forward. Let me put it this way: it is a bit artificial, but I think it should be possible, legally, for this amendment to come into force at a later date. This allows you to handle this, but not the first time, and the bill can proceed quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u155	I think that's possible, but I'm not sure yet. I think you can just let it come into effect a year later, but the Chamber is keen, just as I am, that we lower that premium. That is, after all, the possibility offered by this law. It would be a shame if I missed the opportunity to settle that before 1 January. If the Chamber changes this in consultation with my people in a year later, it will always be involved in subsequent adjustments, but it will miss the first. As soon as I've established that premium, of course, I can communicate about it, but I can't do that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u156	I think we're all in agreement. Mrs. Bruins Slot has made a very nice suggestion. I'm gonna go with the Minister's expert officials and see how we're gonna sort this out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u157	I come to the people who do want to pay, but who can't because they're on a different path. In all debt relief routes it is also about the premium. The health insurance premium is always part of that. So it doesn't matter whether it's friendly or legal debt relief; this is always contained in it. As I understand it, the amendment on that group is maintained. I have already indicated that I will introduce this regulation here, but it is now also in the amendment and I am fine with that. Can't I expand the group? I said I'm looking at that with a positive eye. Can I inform the House of Representatives if I decide to do so? Sure, I will. Then I'll come to the motions. The motion in part No. Mrs Leijten's 47 requests the Government to ensure that when a person is notified to the administrative regime, the collection costs incurred are borne by the health insurance provider and not by the notified person. This would mean that the people who pay the premium would also have to pay the collection costs of someone who does not pay the premium. That does feel like double injustice to me. Apart from the fact that it is contrary to the legislation on collection charges which regulates that the collection costs are on the debtor's account, I also find it just wrong to have the collection costs of someone who does not pay also paid by people who pay their premium. In her motion in part No. 48 Ms Leijten asked the government to draw up a plan to drain the "strip lake" of nearly 100,000 people by 1 August 2017. I'm not against this motion. It also bothers me that we already have to talk about a reservoir and that there is such a large group of people in it. What I can do is specifically let us see what we can do about this. So I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. Furthermore, it has been asked whether the municipal collective schemes are good insurance. Yes, those are generally better insurance than non-collective schemes, because otherwise many people would no longer choose it; they would choose to ensure themselves individually. So this collective insurance must be so interesting that people are also considering getting into it when they are on welfare. A competition has not been conducted because there is also competition-sensitive information. By the way, if you put these arrangements together yourself, it turns out that they are generally very well put together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u158	I understand that the various municipal agreements with health insurance in relation to collective insurance for minimums have not yet been listed. It is only this year that it really took off because many municipalities are using the money to compensate for care costs for minima. However, I would like to ask whether the Minister can not have it listed, for example by the Dutch Healthcare Authority, which oversees the Health Insurance Act, but also insurance packages. I am very curious about good examples and some less good examples. I do hear a lot of different sounds about the level of premiums and the offer in the package. I think we can all learn from it if we get that straight. At the end of the year we are always reported on all kinds of things that health insurers do. If we get an overview of this, we might be able to learn from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u159	I'm a little hesitant, because we're already doing a lot of research. So we're actually asking the NZa to make an extra effort, while you can see that collective insurance is generally more favourable than packages where people have to insure themselves individually. There are also often routes in which the individual insured person is covered with his own risk. Area arrangements are often involved. So it's often very nice insurance. Of course, I can have it asked for, which is not the point, but the point is: where do you want the NZa to target its capacity? The NZa can, of course, inventory this and get the information together. This means that the capacity used for this is not available for other things. And what's in it for us? We're at regional meetings together. There we talk to insurers and municipalities, where we compare best practices, where we try to learn from each other. I don't see one-two-three of why we should be doing this investigation right now. I'm not saying you should never do it. I just don't see enough reason to get this straight, because if I ask the NZa, it can't focus on other things.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u160	It's always a little complicated to choose when you don't know other priorities. I have previously asked questions to the Minister about collective insurance, which I feel is not so advantageous. I know from the insurance company involved that he has a very good appointment with another municipality. There's a big difference. Also in order for municipalities to learn from other municipalities, I think it would be useful to put it together. If we can't do that this year, maybe we can do it in another year. However, I do not think it can hurt at all, because it also has to do with equality of law for citizens.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u161	I suggest we do a sample. You're gonna need less capacity and we're gonna get a visual. We commit a sample so that we can get a picture of what it looks like. Mrs Leijten spoke of slipping paper and concluded with the words: if people paid according to carrying capacity, we would not have this. However, people pay according to capacity. The lowest refund insurance with the care supplement costs about a tenner per month. If you compare that with the health insurance fund at the time, we all had it examined, then you can see that the payment has decreased relatively, while the payment for higher incomes has increased relatively. There is a huge amount of money paid for health insurance in this country. However, we disagree on this and I do not think that we can find a solution to it now. Mrs Klever has tabled two motions. She says you shouldn't put workers behind you. I totally agree with her. This bill contains many measures that are important for tax-paying employees or small self-employed persons, such as a lower premium. That's also an opportunity to get out of trouble. So this is a positive proposal for them too. On the Klever motion in part No. 49, in which it states that only acute medical care is to be paid for to people who have been in the system of paying for years, we have discussed it extensively. I advise against this motion. I think it doesn't matter in terms of percentage and cost, although you would initially expect otherwise. The Klever motion in part No. 50 goes on to take targeted action by the government to deal more effectively with ethnic destitutes. We will. We have targeted measures for young people, targeted measures for immigrants, targeted measures for welfare recipients. We have targeted measures for all the groups we think are having problems with. We are looking at how to reach these groups with information, information and policies. We focus on all kinds of groups, including ethnic groups. This motion is unnecessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u162	Almost half of the defaulters are immigrants. You can also see that percentage is rising. All the Minister does is give information. But these are people who also receive assistance, care allowance and rent allowance. So education alone doesn't get you there. Is the Minister also prepared to go after those defaulters much more? They're three times more ungrateful than natives. And certain groups are much more likely to be unsubstantiated. So you're not gonna get there with all the information, are you?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u163	I agree. That is why I believe that we should keep this fine in place. It shouldn't pay to be unpayer. That is why I have advised against the amendments which seek to adapt in this area. I think there should be a difference between people who pay their contributions. People who don't get a fine. It's part of that bounty. So it's not a non-binding matter. You've got a lot of stuff going on. You have agencies on your neck, you're dealing with debt collection agencies and bailiffs. It's not just gonna happen. Mrs Bruins Slot was right to point out that a frightening number of young people, or young adults, or what to call them, between 18 and 24 years old and between 25 and 30 years old do not pay the premium. We must also approach these groups specifically. Those groups must also feel that it is not without obligation not to pay.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u164	For example, the Minister is going to speed up the flow of welfare recipients. There are also those immigrants. I'm just missing an approach that's focused purely on immigrants. Almost half of the number of defaulters is ethnic. I can see Mrs Bouwmeester coming to the interrupting microphone. Let me just mention the figures. Moroccans are five times more unpayable than natives, Turks are four times more unpayable than natives, Surinamese are seven times more unpayable than natives and Antilleans are even ten times more unpayable. One out of seven Antilleans is depayer. Then you won't get there alone with information!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u165	No, you're gonna need a fine regime, too. And we do. Then you're gonna have to deal with that, too. Then you shouldn't let that be noncommittal. But Mrs Klever does not have the solution either. What would be the solution? Mrs. Klever says: then you only give acute care. But in countries where that happens, it turns out that this doesn't matter at all. It doesn't matter about the number of contributors and it doesn't matter about the costs. So you take a symbolic measure. We are all looking for effective measures. If I can find them, I'll apply them. This bill is not the end. It's a trajectory. If anyone has effective proposals, I am very open to them. But I haven't heard them yet. Everything that is effective, we try to apply.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u166	I've made a proposal. I've been talking about inspections and house visits...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u167	Mrs. Klever, we're doing two-way interruptions. You've already interrupted twice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u168	I have a question for the Minister. Does it wish to confirm that it is not going to pursue an anti-allochtonist policy in this country, as proposed by the PVV, but simply to ensure that all defaults are prevented and that all defaulters are removed? Will she confirm, on behalf of the cabinet, that they are throwing away the suggestion that we are going to beat immigrants far more than the rest of the people who live in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u169	In my opinion, everyone in the Chamber agrees that we must act hard against anyone who does not pay the premium when he or she can. It doesn't matter whether you're young or ethnic, there's just got to be some hard action. With this legislative proposal, we want to offer a perspective to people who have fallen into a certain situation because of bad luck in life. So I am not prepared to put away a group of people because they are part of a certain group; I want to encourage people who do not pay to pay. Mrs Dijkstra asked whether we should not evaluate whether the scheme had the desired result. I agree. We need to stay sharp on it. I think it is important that we evaluate at a fixed time, but I also want us to keep our finger on the pulse year by year and keep looking for improvements, new ideas and best practices that we can take from each other. Mrs Dijkstra also asked whether I would like to keep the House informed of the implementation of the regulation. I'm prepared to do that. I have already given my opinion on the amendment. There has also been talk of clarity regarding the linking of files in the context of early warning. If there are any developments in that area, I will report them. I don't know exactly where we stand with file linking and what we're running into. If things are new or different, I will at least ask whether we are paying particular attention to privacy, as Mrs Dijkstra has asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u170	I would like to return to the arguments by which the Minister rejects my amendment. I have indicated that I am sensitive to these arguments, but I still wonder if it will have the same effects in its effect. I asked the Minister to go on with that. She says we're gonna put it into practice and you don't want to settle it in the law. I would very much like to have some kind of assurance that an arrangement will work out as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u171	That arrangement is for everyone. That arrangement is not for an insurer. Someone doesn't have to belong to a thing. No, the scheme is for everyone who meets the criteria. We're in the process of establishing that. Once we've established that and we've made the arrangement, I'll bring the settlement to the Chamber. That's what I promised. Then the Chamber can say if that's what she wants. Then the Chamber has an extra deposit and she can look into it, although we don't settle it in the law. In the Bruins Slot/Bouwmeester motion in part No. 51 the government is invited to consult with the Dutch Health Insurance Institute and the health insurance companies in order to find out the most common causes of unfairly reporting of malpayers, to formulate solutions and to inform the Chamber about them. I didn't want to get past that too easily. I said we should be a learning organization. I think so, so I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. If there are solutions to bottlenecks, we certainly need to take stock of them, so I'll leave that to the Chamber. We have been asked whether there is enough attention for young people. Yeah, there's a lot of attention for young people. But we also have to stay sharp and be as sharp as possible so that people aged 18 do not start to pay a premium. I totally agree with Mrs Bruins Slot. I feel the urgency, too. Those are people at the beginning of their lives. We shouldn't raise them as debtors. I support the call on the matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u172	The pronunciation is, of course, very nice: I support the call on the matter. What else can the Minister do?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u173	I just made an extra 2 million euros. So I'm not doing nothing. I think this is something we should oppose. We cleared that money. We have given additional funding to the health insurance line in order to better approach that group, including by going on social media, where the group is located, but also to specifically involve the top twenty municipalities. These are the municipalities where most of these young people live. So we have this in our sights. I support what Mrs Bouwmeester says. We have already put policies on that. If there's a tooth in it, it's got to be, but we're on top of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u174	I hear in the Minister's reply that she is indeed working hard on it. We're getting the insurance monitor. I thought this monitor was a lot better than the previous one, also because it better explains which problem groups are still there. My request is to pay particular attention to this in the next monitor. The Minister put the starting point right: these are young people at the beginning of their lives. If they start with a late payment and large debts, then they come out so very difficult.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u175	Yeah, I'm telling you. In the Bouwmeester motion in part No. 52 the government is invited to agree on an obligation for all health insurance companies to participate in the Protocol debt collection scheme of non-payers Health Insurance Act. This motion I must advise against. European legislation does not allow us to force insurers to do so. It is also contrary to Dutch law. They're allowed to disloyal. Therefore, there is an agreement to coordinate with Zorgverzekerings Nederland and with the NZa. It is indeed one insurer with a small market share. I understand where the question comes from, but in view of European and Dutch regulations it is not possible to impose this obligation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u176	Of course, I do not want to table a motion that is not legally enforceable, but imagine that you think this is downright antisocial of that one health insurance provider. It has, of course, an element of risk selection in it. If you tell the whole of the Netherlands that you are a health insurance company X and that you never help your customers with payment problems and debts, then you move it all to someone else and you also do risk selection, because you know that a particular target group never comes to you. That is in fact contrary to the prohibition of risk selection. The background to this motion is that we really want to deal with it. What can we do?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u177	I think that we have taken a lot of measures from that question to deal with this as best we can. It's one health insurance company, but all the other health insurance companies are all on the routes. For the insured person, it doesn't matter much, because it goes to another health insurance provider, who has an acceptance obligation. We have done what we can within the framework within which we must operate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u178	That's a clear answer. I can go puzzle with that myself. I do have a follow-up question. Can the Minister have the NZa look at this way of showing a lack of service? To what extent does this fall under a disguised form of risk selection? The investigation is ongoing. This seems to me to be a simple question to take along, because if it is, action must be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u179	That's a long way to go for the NZa. During ongoing investigations we have added new research questions. I'll be right back to the next request for a new research question for an ongoing investigation. I can respond to that request in a different way. In this investigation, it's very difficult to bring anything. The NZa comes with results. I'm gonna ask. If it is possible, it is possible, but let us not create a delay. I have already made the request in December, and I would not be surprised if people are already upset. Maybe it can still be added. Then there is the request to include in the health care study the extent to which income support schemes are known. That investigation has been delayed, so this question can still be taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u180	We were supposed to be informed about care avoidrs last summer. That became four reports, three of which were not on the subject and one was a sample of young people, who had little to do with care, because they were not ill. At the time, the Minister promised that this study would appear before this summer. Now I hear it's delayed. When will it be finished?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u181	There are two different issues. One is an investigation into the avoidance of concern which I promised at the November budget debate at the request of Mr Otwin van Dijk. That research consists of three parts. Two parts have already been received by the Chamber and, in accordance with my promise, it will receive the third part before the summer. The third part will deal with the question of which care has actually been used in the second line. In addition, I promised an investigation that I would carry out with the LHV. It's not like that. Many MPs said that the LHV has signals and that I had to go into them by starting an investigation together with the LHV. I promised, but the investigation is delayed. So the results will come later. The investigations that I have promised in connection with the budget procedure are just coming in time. I'll take the question into the latest investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u182	We have had a lot of discussion about whether these investigations are going to indicate whether people have avoided care for financial reasons, because they are looking at macro-expenditure on healthcare costs. You don't necessarily have to look at care-avoidance. It's the last investigation that's relevant. Previously, the Minister replied to Parliamentary questions that the general practitioners might have a different perspective on reality, because they see many people who do not care. The problem would not be that big. With this she has somewhat got herself in trouble with the general practitioners who have been ringing the bell for two years. I am very sorry to hear that this investigation has been delayed. It might also show a little bit of what priority it has.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u183	That is an opinion of Mrs Leijten and not a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u184	The motion in part No. 52 I'm moving in because she's not enforceable. I'll think of something else. I'd like to know when the investigation with the LHV is over.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u185	The investigation will be completed by the end of the summer. It'll be ready in October.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u186	Well, then we've got a problem. We asked for that investigation back in October, and the Minister promised. She said she was gonna sit down with the GPs. We were very pleased with that, because we think it is an important signal. Now it turns out that we only receive the research report a year later, while the general practitioners say that they can get to work much earlier. I don't quite understand. The problem is, however, that the budget will be adopted in the summer. If you get a research report after the budget, you can wait another year. I would like to ask the Minister to continue and produce the report before the summer. The investigation has already been requested in October and has been promised. I really want it to get there sooner, because we just need it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u187	This is an investigation that has been initiated in good consultation with the LHV. It's complex, because you have to agree on what you're going to measure and what you can derive from it. That's why it took a little longer. The budget will be discussed in November. If the research report comes in October, it can simply play a role in the budget process.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u188	Since the Bouwmeester motion (, No ) has been withdrawn, has ceased to be the subject of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u189	Mr. Chairman. I have a limited number of questions to ask. It was asked whether the resolution of the payment problems surrounding the care premium has always been included in the debt relief process. If there is a debt regime, it is possible to get out of the administrative regime. Of course, in a friendly debt settlement there is always the resolution of the arrears, as well as the resolution of the arrears of other debts. There is always a good solution to this. For the sake of completeness, I would like to say the following to Mrs Klever. In my first term, I said that the total amount involved was 120% WML. I meant to say 120% social minimum. That seems clear to me, but I'm just saying it for the Acts. The final question to me was asked by Mrs Bruins Slot. If there are indeed around 560,000 people in the collective health insurance, how many of them are in the welfare system? That's about a third of it right now, so roughly 180,000 people. Those were the questions that remained for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-6.u190	Then we have come to the end of the second term. The motions, the amendments and the legislative proposal will be voted on next Tuesday.
