ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-7.u1	I have already welcomed the Minister for Education, Culture and Science to the Upper House. I shall open the debate and give the floor to Mr Atsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. For the sake of shortness, Bill 34109, described as the Heritage Act, lies ahead of us. It is not the first time this has been discussed in this Chamber. We've had two written rounds. In advance, I would like to thank the Minister for the detailed answer we have given to what the Chamber has put forward. When I say comprehensive treatment, I will go along with what happened on the other side of the Binnenhof. When we talk about cultural heritage, we talk about a lot of what we care about and what is important. Just look at what there is here in this room to recognize and, above all, to appreciate about cultural heritage. Look at the Binnenhof itself, but also think of the short debate we had here a few weeks ago on the purchase of the Rembrandts. That too is cultural heritage and deserves all the attention. He got it right, by the way. If I may ask the Minister, through the President, what is the current state of that heritage, especially in terms of maintenance and management, I am happy to do so. The Heritage Act can count on our support. I say that in advance; we only have three questions. The first question I would like to put to the Minister in this connection concerns the possibility of appealing and appealing in relation to the sale of documents, including documents from the region. We have seen the attention of the VNG and the IPO in particular. We would like to hear from the Minister to what extent it intends to be able to respond to the concerns expressed by the other governments in this matter of concern. Secondly, the CDA Group asks how the Minister views the AMvB for exceptions in excavations and in particular what has been put forward by what I call, for short, the Archaeological Association: concern about the derogation. It seems to us right that the Minister should go into that aspect in a very specific way. The maintenance and management of collections is indicated in the answer to the questions and in the reply that sufficient resources are available within the regular budgets. However, if we allow the signals to work well on us, there are a large number of national museums that are very concerned about the management and maintenance they need to guarantee. They wonder whether this can be financed from the regular budgets and whether the future resources available will be sufficient. In short, the concern on that point seems significant. In fact, it only seems to be getting bigger if we allow the signals of the last few weeks to work well on us. There are at least 10 major institutions that have turned to or turned to the Minister. We would like to know from the Minister whether this concern, which is right, is that there are not enough resources to guarantee what the institutions have been holding, namely the proper management and maintenance of the art collections.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-7.u3	I give the floor to Mr Schnabel. But first I press the bell, because Mr Schnabel is making a maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-7.u4	Mr. Chairman. On the opposite side of the pond, I can see it from here on the other side of the pond, is Museum Bredius. I'm chairman of the foundation that runs the collection. The City of The Hague is the owner of the collection, which was given to the city in 1946 by Abraham Bredius' testamentary order. It is a very precious collection, a great heritage, symbolic of Dutch heritage. These include more than 200 paintings, including works by Rembrandt and Jan Steen and almost 400 artefacts: antique silver, Chinese and Meissen porcelain, crystal and furniture. In the will, Bredius stated at the time that the collection must be shown permanently in the museum he himself founded. Nothing gets out of the house and nothing gets sold. You can say that almost 70 years ago Bredius had a visionary vision. Heritage must not become a stray property. It is indeed only a few weeks ago that we in this Chamber, for a lot of money, found it good from two precious paintings that disappeared abroad in the nineteenth century, hoping to get back the portraits of Maerten Soolmans and Oopje Coppit. Like Mr Atsma, I hope that the Minister will be able to tell us something about the fate and situation of Maerten and Oopje at the moment. In other words, are they home again? It is a special moment for me and a great honour in this Chamber and in this Chamber, of which Mr Atsma also said that, in the terms of the Heritage Act, it is one of the most important ensembles of our country, to devote my maiden speech to what the Netherlands is happy to do with pride and to give us its own identity for and in the world: an exceptionally rich past with a cultural heritage that has been admired for many generations and has also been so long wanted. Eventually we didn't have much at the end of the nineteenth century. The Dutch museums hardly counted paintings by Rembrandt a hundred years ago, just to put that symbol back on. What was ours, between 6 million and 9 million paintings made in the seventeenth century alone, had now become the property of many throughout the world. That makes it all the more necessary to keep in mind that what is now or is again ours must remain the real property of all of us. The D66 Group welcomes the bundling and adaptation of rules in the field of cultural heritage, which will be established in the Heritage Act. However, after the written examination of the questions put by this Chamber, the Minister will not be surprised that my group still has a number of questions and concerns. I hope that the Minister with her answers can and will take away those concerns. When examining the draft law in the Lower House, particular attention was paid to the regulation of the protection of heritage.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Although in the practice of decollecting museums at present under the guidance of the LAMO agreements there is rather a transfer of objects to another museum or party, or even destruction of objects that are in very poor condition, the focus in society is, of course, mainly on situations where the sale of evidently valuable cultural goods is being considered. The almost secret sale of an important work by Marlene Dumas by Museum Gouda, the attempts to auction large parts of the collection of the World Museum in Rotterdam, the Dutch art owner Mondrian of the municipality of Hilversum and the unholy idea ever of the Hague Gemeentemuseum to sell an important work by Picasso, are still fresh in memory and will not soon be forgotten. Let us be honest: in all these cases, the expectation of a high yield has been to a large extent decisive for the idea of being able to sell, in some cases not even with the intention of making the proceeds to the museum where the piece was located. The concern of organisations such as the Rembrandt Association to maintain the protection of works of art and cultural objects in public possession against alienation cannot be separated from the concern for the temptation of large money. Strictly speaking, the municipality of Amsterdam, bad at cash, could decide not to sell the Nachtwacht, its property, either from the Empire or from the Rijks. This seems unthinkable, but in the 1930s the Rijksmuseum itself was able to purchase a number of important paintings, including by Rembrandt, from the Hermitage in St Petersburg. That was important in order to obtain money for the Soviet Union at the time. The bankrupt city of Detroit was also planning to reduce its deficits with the proceeds of works of art from the Detroit Institute of Arts, one of the most important art museums in the United States. Better safe than sorry. This has given rise to further proposals to cover the procedures relating to alienation with additional safeguards, in particular in order to better protect works of art of regional and local interest. Apart from that, the task of the First Chamber is to ensure consistency in the proposal of law. At this point, there is something to note about the very procedures relating to alienation. Article 4 (17) of the Erfgoedwet mandatory "Our Minister" is that, by the way, the only minister in charge of cultural goods? (b) Deputised States or the College of Mayors and aldermen to publish a proposed decision on alienation. Other legal entities governed by public law, such as universities, their museums and collections and water boards, do not have that obligation. Article 4 (18) then provides for the request of advice in the event of alienation, in principle only if the Minister, Deputy States or the College of Mayors and aldermen consider it necessary. In view of the fact that they are required to publish the proposed decision, other parties may, of course, also press for advice in these situations. It is noteworthy that Article 4 (18) also provides for the request of advice by a legal person governed by public law. However, since these legal persons do not need to publish a proposed decision earlier, this means that it is easier for them to refrain from seeking advice, especially since an opinion that makes alienation difficult, and only such an opinion, must be notified to the Minister. Nowhere in the relevant Article 4 (21) states that the Minister himself is obliged to publish the opinions of Article 4 (18). A negative opinion shall only have a suspensive effect of thirteen weeks according to the law in relation to the alienation, unless the Minister can or would like to exercise the heavy power over Articles 3 (8) and 9 to designate a cultural object as protected. That's a very tough step. I would like to ask the Minister why the cumbersome procedures provided for in Article 4 have been preferred if they are not to be judged effective. Only in extreme circumstances will the Minister be able to stop himself from being a very strange figure and other parties wishing to alienate cultural goods from doing so, or at least to put the foot against it properly. Would the Minister not consider finding a better way, in the light of this little effective procedure, to protect cultural goods, especially regional, local or public-law bodies, better than at present against alienation? I come to my second point. In practice, the greatest risk of alienation of truly important cultural assets appears to occur in the case of private art property that has sometimes been included as loan for decades in the collection of a museum and is also maintained and managed at the expense of society. In recent years, a lot of money from funds, private individuals and the government has been sitting in the preservation of a number of works from the Goudstikker collection for Dutch museums. This applies both to the Rijksmuseum and to the Dordrechts Museum as well as to Museum Bredius. The owner's right to recover the property and then sell it elsewhere for a price whose height is also determined by the museum's recognition of quality and authenticity cannot in itself be contested. But would it not be appropriate, in view of the works of art designated as protected cultural property under Article 3 (7), to build up a fund which can be used when the loan is likely to be terminated? Really important works of art for the Netherlands Collection, which can already be seen in the form of loans or come on the market from private property, are almost always very expensive and ask just in case of an auction to be able to decide the possibility in the very short term. In the case of Maerten Soolmans and Oopje Coppit, a revision of the budget of the Ministry of OCW was necessary to enable the purchase. Does the Minister see, in the context of Chapter 7 of the bill, the chapter dealing with the financial aspects, the possibility of re-establishing a substantial national fund for cultural heritage? For my third point, I shall go back to Chapter 7, in particular Articles 7 (1) and (2) and Article 7 (7), which in fact mainly regulate subsidies to museums. The law leaves detailed rules for subsidies to the Minister. There is already a lot of work going on and some of it already with new rules to determine subsidies. I ask the Minister to ensure that, when laying down the detailed rules, the costs of collection management for museums are determined by a real level playing field. At the moment, this is not because the museums differ quite a bit in the way in which they have calculated the costs of collection management in the past. In fact, for the future, a 2011 fiscal system, which was not intended for this purpose, is used as a basis for determining the subsidy for collection management following the introduction of the Heritage Act. Is the Minister aware of the unrest and concern that this has caused in the Kring Rijksmuseums? It would be a pity if the introduction of the Heritage Act would place them under a bad star. Finally, I would like to draw the Minister's attention to a very new problem in the field of heritage, which may also be linked to the Nature Protection Act, which we will be discussing later this afternoon, and which will also have to be seen later on in the Environment Act. The earthquakes in Groningen have shown how important it is to see monuments, such as medieval churches and capital farms, not by themselves but also in their surroundings. It is more than likely that in the coming years in North Groningen much will be demolished and replaced by new construction. It is clear that the official monuments will be restored if necessary, but they threaten to become historical exotics in a 21st-century environment due to the large scale of the changes. Under the new Heritage Act, does the Minister see opportunities to maintain a historically grown identity? Is there enough provision for a possibility of making connections in this kind of situation for the Netherlands between the Heritage Act, the Nature Protection Act and later the Environment Act? I look forward to the Minister's answers and I invite you all to visit the other side of Museum Bredius.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-7.u5	Mr Schnabel, congratulations on your maiden speech. It is not a coincidence that you pronounce it in the treatment of the Heritage Act, but your personal wish. The subject also suits you, given your great love for art and your involvement in important cultural institutions, such as the Royal Concertgebouw Orchestra, the Dutch Open Air Museum in Arnhem, the Catharijneconvent, Boijmans Van Beuningen, the Prince Bernhard Cultuurfonds and Museum Bredius. Allow me briefly to outline something of your background. You studied sociology in Utrecht and for some years in Germany with the sociologist Niklas Luhmann. You got your PhD in 1982. You started your working life in 1975 as a researcher at the Vereniging Stimezo Nederland. Then you became head of research at the Netherlands Centre for Mental Health. You have combined this with an extraordinary professorship of clinical psychology at Utrecht University for six years. Since 1992, you have been a full-time professor and have set up the Netherlands School of Public Health; a postgraduate training in social medicine. In those years, you have frequently called for attention to spiritual well-being. For example, in your book entitled "The Resistance Mental Disease" you argued for a first aid for the mind, to stimulate self-development and individual autonomy. Of course, Freud's psychoanalysis was also included in the book. You later indicated in an interview that you are fascinated by Freud's ability to connect seemingly completely separate things logically. In your opinion, his analyses have led to a new approach to psychological problems that has remained valid to this day. The ability to make sharp, surprising analyses is your own. It was among other things that feature that led to your appointment as director of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau in 1997. You have held this position for 16 years, making you the personification of the SCP with its thorough research into the well-being of the Dutch population and its advice for sound policies. You wrote the final word of the reports of the SCP yourself. You were a self-appointed "specialist in generalization." The Dutch society continued to amaze you. In your opinion, this society is characterised by the five i's: individualization, computerization, informalization, internationalisation and intensification. These and other analyses were widely carried out, including in your columns for NRC Handelsblad and Het Financieele Dagblad. Without having studied it further, I dare say that there is no one in the Netherlands who has reviewed as many dissertations in as diverse fields of science as you. You also managed to combine all this with a large number of side functions, such as membership of the Central Advisory Council CBS, the Scientific Board for Government Policy and the Board of Commissioners of Shell. In 2013 you handed over the baton to former Prime MP Kim Putters and again dedicated yourself fully to your professorship of social and cultural policy at Utrecht University. Even now, however, you can combine this with the membership of various advisory councils, such as the Platform Education2032, and of course the membership of the First Chamber. An article about you in Trouw once said: "Prof. dr. Schnabel does everything quickly: read, think, write, speak." I think that is a striking observation, and I am sure that this feature will be useful in your further contribution to the work of the Chamber. I wish you every success in doing so, and I shall suspend the sitting for a short moment in order to give my fellow Members and myself the opportunity to congratulate you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-7.u6	Mr. Chairman. Where are you from? Who's your father, who's your mother? This is how Jörgen Raymann starts his interviews with guests in his program. I think it's a wonderful question to start with: who's your father, who's your mother, what's history? Where you come from is not the hometown or the country, but the history of your ancestors. Our history may be the most important thing for politicians. The past teaches us not only what the mistakes we should learn from, but also what our values are and how we have developed over the centuries. That determines our current culture. It determines how we relate to each other now. We're not careful with our history. When I take the history lessons that my children receive, I find that there is so much more to tell, about the downside of the VOC mentality, about our role in slavery, about the Dutch influence in South Africa and also about World War II. Securing our history is done by guaranteeing our cultural heritage, big and small, national and local, and above all by indicating it. We see that this heritage is sometimes easily handled. It is translated into value, as in the purchase of works of art. A law that demonstrates the importance of cultural heritage should therefore do more than look at its value for money. She's supposed to provide frameworks for how we secure our history. The SP Group would like to thank the Minister for her answers in the written round of questions. We are here today because the SP Group still has a number of concerns about the Heritage Act. Not so long ago, it became clear how important it is. There was great commotion at the time about the purchase of two Rembrandts. During the debate on this subject, I asked the Minister: how can we prevent this in the future? The Minister told me at the time that that would be regulated by this law. That is the pressing point we want to make today: is it now well arranged? Do we have the frameworks and sufficient resources to maintain them? I would like to begin with the concern of the Council of State, which says that it is not guaranteed in the event of alienation that the Minister is informed. Since this is a public sale, the Minister can no longer intervene afterwards. The Minister replied to a question on this point that the government responded to this opinion by adding to the proposal an information obligation in case the opinion shows that it is a cultural property or collection of particular cultural historical or scientific significance which is irreplaceable and indispensable for Dutch cultural property. The question now arises which is irreplaceable and indispensable. I would like to address the national and local importance of cultural heritage in my speech. I'll start with the last one. The Minister stated in her reply that a government would have to legitimise itself democratically. Moreover, she says, a government will not be guided by money when it comes to an important heritage. Mr Schnabel has already mentioned a number of examples. In 1987 I lived in Bussum and Hilversum was the place where I volunteered. The good understander already knows: in 1987 there was also noise about a heritage, this time about its sale by the municipality of Hilversum. It was composed of two lines of Mondrian, which the municipality of Hilversum had decided to sell to the highest bidder in order to enable the restoration of Gooiland. In the end, Mr Brinkman refused the purchase as a minister in his role at the time. Here it was the Stedelijk Museum that rang the bell. That was possible, because the painting had already had a neglected wandering and ended up in the Stedelijk. It could be said that the child had finally found a good foster parent, who also wanted to fight for him. If the painting hadn't been at the Stedelijk Museum, who would have called the bell? If someone fails to comply with the obligation to provide information, or if the advice is that the object is not of particular cultural or scientific significance, what can the minister do if the heritage is sold? Does the Minister have any opportunity to say that the procedure has not been followed properly and that the sale is therefore void? In the case of a private-law agreement, the Minister already has fewer possibilities. The argument of interest for the Dutch heritage is therefore all the more relevant here. As I said in my questions to the Minister, there are many examples where regional or local interest prevails. The Minister chooses a different regime, but what can now be local interest can be national interest tomorrow. The Minister reassures us by saying that there is a good look in the field. However, the field indicates that, precisely when it comes to it, there are insufficient safeguards to ensure that there is no unwanted detainment. We want to be able to conduct an administrative procedure, and that is precisely not what the legislative proposal provides for. The Minister argues this choice by saying that such a thing is a strange duck in our legal system, by the way, not an unknown stranger duck, because it happens occasionally. In doing so, it has undoubtedly reassured this Chamber, given the number of speakers. However, the Minister does not discuss the desirability of a procedure that is easily accessible. It's unusual, but that doesn't mean it's impossible. What substantive arguments does the Minister have for not setting up such a procedure? Following questions asked by Mr Schnabel, I ask what happens when a private individual sells documents and does not follow the procedures. In fact, this law is about taking and taking those responsibilities. There is also concern in the archaeological world. We see that finds of national interest are entirely left to the responsibility of municipalities. There too, the national direction stays away. Where the Minister still has a certain role to play in protecting the alienation of valuable heritage, she leaves it all out of here. Archaeological finds, which not only have historical value for our country, but also worldwide, fall under the financial and executive responsibility of the municipality, which, I say, is so unlucky to find such a thing within its borders. Fortunately, last Thursday, an amendment was adopted in the House of Representatives that makes money available for a fund for archaeological finds. My group very much welcomes this. We had asked the Minister for this earlier. The Minister said at the time that she felt that the private sector should set up such a fund. In my group's view, now that the responsibility lies with the Empire, there is a new opportunity to look at the framework of this law in these archaeological excavations. There are many municipalities that are doing well, but there are also many that are not doing well. That's not unwillingness, it's lack of knowledge. Our group is therefore surprised that no scientific knowledge is required when deciding on scientific research. The minister says everything is well secured by the province and the municipality, but the reality is different. This has not been properly investigated in the evaluation of the law on the preservation of monuments. I therefore ask the Minister how she supports her statement on this issue. The lack of frameworks was already present in the law on the preservation of monuments. Why did the Minister not seize this opportunity to present these frameworks now, as she has done for most of the cultural heritage? Here too, the Minister refers in her reply to the citizens concerned. The AWN, the volunteer association for archaeologists, would like to do this, but is now forced to agree with her through administrative procedures. The lack of knowledge leads to poor cooperation with municipalities. Does the Minister intend to include in the implementation of the law the obligation for a municipality to hire expert knowledge in an archaeological find or ground? Then there's a comment about metal detectors. It seems to be an extension of the policy, but it is a limitation of the current policy of tolerance. The biggest challenge we have in the field of metal detectors is to report what is being found. It is now feared that the report will be in breach and that will also be the case after the amendment of the law. It would be good if we could report as an honor. Does the Minister agree with me that we should do everything in our power to encourage this report? This can be done by making notifications easier, for example by reporting places where the finder is rewarded with a story about his find and the explanation of history. The AWN has good ideas for this and also the infrastructure to set this up. Would the Minister like to talk to the AWN to see how this can be further developed? The AWN believes that the regulation of the detectors will be obstructive. It looks like the good ones are going to suffer from the evil ones. Can the Minister explain once again why she has opted for this arrangement and how she is going to monitor its progress? I would ask the Minister once again to look at the handles she has given to the frameworks. My group is not reassured that the implementation of this law offers sufficient opportunities to protect our heritage. We call on the Minister to respond to the SP Group in this respect so that we can conclude positively the discussion of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-7.u7	I inform the Chamber that, at the request of the Labour Party, I appointed Mr Vreeman as a member of the Committee for the Interior and the High Colleges of State/General Affairs and House of the King (Biza/AZ) instead of Mrs Beuving.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-7.u8	Mr. Chairman. Every day we can see how fragile our heritage is, especially in the international context. I am talking about damage and destruction of cultural heritage, especially in Syria at the moment. But we also know it from other countries. So we also know that heritage, if stolen, is thought of as the Westfries Museum, is very vulnerable. Fortunately, we have a lot of heritage in the Netherlands. It is also important that we take good care of that. We are also concerned about this international context and, of course, I am trying to make my contribution to protecting cultural heritage, but I cannot make a law for that, and I can do that for the Netherlands. As mentioned above, the Netherlands is rich in cultural heritage. It is present everywhere in our society, not only in obvious places such as museums and our historic inner cities, in this building or by this pond and on the other side, but actually everywhere: on land, in the soil and in our traditions, rituals and stories. Cultural heritage is the source of the story of our history and that of the Netherlands. Mrs Gerkens rightly said this: the history of ourselves too. It makes the past visible and thus strengthens our cultural and historical awareness. Because of our cultural heritage, we feel connected to each other and to the past. As a result, we also derive a significant amount of our identity from it. Cultural heritage provides anchor points to understand the present and to think about the future. It provides a reference framework for present and future generations. Cultural heritage is important in science and can also form a basis for scientific research. Moreover, cultural heritage has an important economic value. Every year many tourists from the Netherlands and abroad visit our museums, historic inner cities and monuments. It is therefore important to see cultural heritage as a source of income for the rural and local economies. But more importantly, that protection. That makes the present bill clear. It shows how we can better protect and preserve our heritage, who has what responsibilities and how it is monitored. That may seem self-evident, but it has not always been. Protection of and care for heritage dates back to the nineteenth century. Then Victor de Stuers wondered in his interesting article "Holland on his narrowest" about the neglect of the national cultural heritage and the poor layout of Dutch museums. The government has played a role in this, but also many private initiatives. Through many years of commitment and commitment, caring for our cultural heritage has become a well established and widely endorsed interest. Much of that protection is now laid down in a law, often with additional protection. Having said that, I would like to address the more specific questions that have been asked. Most of them relate to alienation in collections. Mr Atsma and Mrs Gerkens referred to the appeal to alienation proceedings and the relationship with VNG and IPO. This has to do with the existence of a separation between private law and administrative law in the Dutch legal system. Both jurisdictions have their own system of procedural law and legal protection. The alienation of property by a government is a private law act. Administrative legal protection doesn't fit in with that. This is contrary to the system of legal protection in the Netherlands. There is no law in which administrative appeals are open to sale by a government. Governments are constantly carrying out private-law actions, many of which have a major social impact. Think of the sale of land to a property developer for housing. All of these acts are not open to appeal to the administrative judge. I see no reason to break the separate system of administrative and private law in the case of the alienation of cultural goods. I also note that IPO and VNG have, for the same reason, pointed out to this Chamber their objection to the possibility of appeal. In the case of the alienation of cultural goods by public authorities, it is primarily the social debate that is important. This is about creating social support for the decision. The public debate is supported by a careful decision-making procedure involving independent advice on cultural goods of particular interest. In all other cases, everyone has the opportunity to express an opinion. It is then up to the democratic decision-making process between government and parliament to reach a balance. So the cabinet also follows VNG and IPO's plea, I say in particular to Mr Atsma. Mr Schnabel asked for a response to the concerns, including from the Rembrandt Association. He referred to the care of Rembrandt's paintings that could be alienated. I acknowledge that the Rembrandt Association has expressed its concern, including about the willingness of patrons to make donations when the protection of cultural goods is inadequate. I would add that I take these concerns very seriously. The Rembrandt Association has been working for 132 years to strengthen and protect the collection. The reinforced alienation procedure in this Heritage Act will, in my opinion, lead to a careful decision-making process that will be more acceptable on transparent and identifiable grounds. The protection regime, as included in the present legislative proposal, is adequate and stronger than in the past. The protection regime is transparent to stakeholders and strengthens government care in dealing with collections. In my opinion, this will also benefit future donors of collections. Of course, I am prepared to pay attention to this in the evaluation of the legislative proposal. But I say again: we are going beyond the present situation. Mr Schnabel also asked about the difference in policy among the various municipalities. Rule 4.17 calls for a committee to be set up. Another possibility is the obligation of a view, whereby people can let people know what they think of the intended alienation. In the case of bodies governed by public law, there is only a committee. Mr Schnabel asked if this was not too effective. Is that enough to protect cultural heritage? Again, this law gives more protection than we already have. The question is how do we shape this in such a way that there is proportionality. We must not create unnecessary bureaucracy. The original bill only included rules on estrangement by municipalities, provinces and the Empire. Amendment provides that the request for an independent opinion in the event of the alienation of cultural goods which are reasonably relevant at national level should also apply to other legal persons governed by public law. I think that was a good proposal from the proposers, because the other legal entities governed by public law can also have important objects that may belong to the national cultural heritage. Examples include universities and the Academy, but also an organisation such as the Central Bureau Driving Certificates (CBR). According to the explanatory statement, the amendment looked at the additional burden on these legal entities governed by public law. The question has therefore been asked whether this should be subject to exactly the same rules as for municipalities and whether it is not enough simply to set up a committee here. The question of opinion referred to in Article 4.18 relates to a subject that can reasonably be of national interest. Then that burden would be limited. These legal persons have, in particular, objects of interest to the institution and have limited possession of items of national interest. If the legal persons governed by public law also have to disclose the alienation of any other object and take the view into consideration, the burden on those organisations may increase considerably, while they probably do not have many items of national interest. In my view, this would not correspond to the proportionality of the additional burden the proposers were aiming for and, above all, to a great deal of additional bureaucracy. I therefore agree with the fact that the disclosure of any object that is alienated only applies to municipalities, provinces and the Empire. This means that we have an additional general protection compared to the current situation. The amendment from the House of Representatives also applies to bodies governed by public law, but in a proportionate manner. Mrs Gerkens asked if the field of work had sufficient instruments to carry out control in the event of alienation. The alienation of a cultural property in public possession must be placed in a democratic context. The board shall be accountable to the relevant parliament for any possible alienation. In this debate, the Heritage Act lays down frameworks and conditions to ensure a careful procedure and balance. The obligation to publish and consult stakeholders are involved in the decision-making process at an early stage. It should also be borne in mind that many cultural assets of public authorities are managed by museums and other heritage institutions. They may also express their concerns about alienation to the public administration. In this way, the city council, the Provincial States or your Chamber will be placed in a position. Failure to comply with a legal procedure is grounds for destroying a decision on alienation. Mrs Gerkens also asked how to determine whether a cultural asset is of local or regional importance. How is that protected? Let me point out that culture is dynamic. What we see as culture is a dynamic process. It can change over time. So Mrs Gerkens is right: something that can be of local interest or local cultural heritage may be of national importance a hundred years later. I would just not like to draw the conclusion that anything that may ever be of national interest should be given that framework or designation in advance. Then we would build a huge system with each other and never really go back to alienation. That is why I have mainly included procedural conditions in the law. This will create a transparent decision-making process, which will ensure a clear public debate. Everyone can then make a sound or a countersound and there will never be alienation without careful consideration and a debate on the social aspects of it. The social aspects can be weighed differently for a municipality, a province or the Netherlands as a whole. In the event of a lack of clarity about the value of a cultural object, the obligation to seek independent advice is appropriate. This may also include whether something is of local-specific, regional-specific, provincial-specific or national importance. The obligation to publish ensures that interest groups are involved early in the debate on alienation, while also highlighting the local and regional importance of heritage. If the obligation to advise or publish is not fulfilled, the democratically elected body may address the administration or the Minister of OCW may proceed to destruction. The act then took place in violation of the law. Mrs Gerkens mentioned the example of a private protected cultural property that is sold and in which someone does not follow the rules. The short answer to Mrs Gerkens' question is that in such a case there is a criminal offence. Then prosecution can occur and the decision to sell can be destroyed. I come to the questions that have been asked about archaeology. Archaeology is the discipline of the story. Only when the story of finds is told, will archaeology live and it becomes meaningful to the present. Fortunately, the story of archaeology is becoming increasingly important, as witnessed, among other things, the opening of the House of Hilde in Noord-Holland. That provincial depot presents the archaeological story as a journey of discovery. Another example of this is the success of DOMunder. At the Dom in Utrecht the story is shown under the Dom and thus centuries of history of the city of Utrecht. In doing so, the maximum focus is on the experience of the past with modern techniques. Involving the environment of archaeological excavations is becoming increasingly common. The first National Archaeology Days were a great success this year. At 70 different locations in Noord-Holland, Zuid-Holland and Utrecht, 80 archaeological organisations organized over 90 different activities for more than 23,000 visitors. Mrs Gerkens asked whether we should not ensure that every municipality has archaeological knowledge and that there is an archaeologist everywhere. I am not so afraid that this knowledge is not present, given the great enthusiasm of archaeological organisations and the importance that archaeological heritage has for a municipality itself. This is also about proportionality. It seems to me that it goes too far to lay down rules and tell every church that they must have an archaeologist. My Cultural Heritage Agency tries to support municipalities as much as possible if they have questions. This state service also discusses how municipalities can be supported if an archaeological find is made in a municipality.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-7.u9	I agree with the Minister that it is impossible to appoint an archaeologist for each municipality. That's not what I asked. At present there is no obligation to involve an archaeologist in the mandatory scientific advice if there is an excavation or if there are archaeological grounds. My question was whether the Minister would consider involving at least an archaeologist in the opinion if something was to be scientifically investigated. It doesn't have to be an archaeologist from the county. It could also be an archaeologist hired from outside.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-7.u10	I'll be right back to the scientific research. There's a lot going on. However, the evaluation of the municipal archaeological development process found that the system, as it is now decentralised, functions well. Municipalities are obliged by the Awb to take well-founded decisions, including in respect of archaeology. This means that, if necessary, expertise should be hired to make careful decisions. I do not think that an additional obligation is necessary for the moment. It is up to municipalities to further develop this. I now come to the scientific research. This is actually about what we do when special finds have been made. This means that municipalities must respect the implementation of the Malta Convention when making such a finding. This in turn means that municipalities have to take into account expected archaeology in the early stages of the spatial process, with the principle that the disruptor pays generally working well. Sometimes there is a special find, as recently in Dalfsen. It also raised the question of whether there are sufficient possibilities for thorough scientific research in exceptional finds. In response to questions from the Chamber on the law on inheritance, I announced that I will explore the possibilities for supporting in-depth scientific research and inform both chambers about this next year. As far as scientific research is concerned, therefore, the question of how municipalities deal with it and when they use it can be raised. In dealing with the Culture budget in the Lower House, I explained that I agree with the need for an exploration, but that the Empire does something to support municipalities and is involved in scientific research. Look at the Dalfsen case. Dalfsen would receive a contribution of between €75,000 and €150,000 from the RCE Harvest programme for Malta. The Rijksmuseum van Oudheden and the municipality of Dalfsen are also talking about possible collaboration in research and presentation. Mrs Gerkens already referred to the amendment adopted by the House of Representatives on 3 December. This will free up an amount of €250,000 once for a fund or grant scheme for archaeology, to which municipalities can claim to cover the additional costs associated with excavation, scientific development and public presentation of individual archaeological finds of international interest. Mrs Gerkens also asked what we do with special finds, coincidences, in a municipality. Then we will do everything we can to support municipalities in the first steps: what should you do if you think you have made a special find? This is mainly a task of the Cultural Heritage Agency, which is developing an app for this purpose, so that we can also use modern digital resources to serve people as well and as quickly as possible. Mr Atsma and Mrs Gerkens also asked for a response to the request...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-7.u11	I find the Minister very quickly ignoring the point I was trying to make in my speech. You can already see a great deal of confusion between archaeologists and democratic municipal councils, because there is a lack of archaeological knowledge among the latter. The administrative procedure is now often chosen. My plea was to make sure that municipalities are obliged to obtain archaeological advice so that this knowledge is preserved and perhaps a lot of bureaucracy can be avoided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-7.u12	I think I have argued that I think we are doing enough. We have a system that has been evaluated. This has shown that the legislation is working well, also because it is organised on a decentralised basis. We have also established under the General Administrative Law that municipalities have to take well-motivated decisions, including with regard to archaeology. Local authorities should also, where expertise is needed, hire that expertise in order to be able to take that careful decision. In my opinion, given the evaluation, that is enough for now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-7.u13	The AWN, the Association of Volunteers in Archaeology, argues precisely that this part has not been specifically investigated and that it does not see this in the evaluation either. I do not think it would be helpful if we were to play a well-known non-fiction game here, so perhaps the Minister could do a hand-out by saying that she would still consult with the AWN on how to secure this well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-7.u14	I'm always willing to consult with the AWN. I should also like to respond to Mr Atsma's question on the request of the AWN to reconsider the exceptions in the ban on excavation. This shows that we are in constant consultation with the AWN. It is then up to me to decide whether we believe that more is needed. It may also be that we believe that, even with the emphasis on the municipal government, we have generally done everything we can to ensure it. I come to that last conclusion, but I also agree that we are constantly in conversation with the AWN and that this will certainly continue to be the subject of discussion in the future. Mr Atsma and Mrs Gerkens asked to reconsider the exceptions to the excavation ban. I note that the archeological association experiences the proposed exemption for metal detection up to 30 centimeters except for monuments and sites with an archaeological purpose as too restrictive. First of all, I would like to point out that digging up by metal-detection amateurs is not formally allowed at the moment. The Heritage Act creates a formal basis for this for the first time. The AMvB, which regulates the exception to the excavation ban, is in preparation. Maybe it'll help Mrs. Gerkens if I tell her I'm talking to the archeological association about that AMvB. If I noticed that there are still substantive aspects that deserve more attention, we can include that in the AMvB. That AMvB isn't here yet; it's being made now. This shows once again that we are really in constant conversation with the archaeologists. However, I would like to repeat that any exception to the prohibition of excavation must be proportionate, given the vulnerability of the archaeological heritage and the fact that the soil archive can only be consulted once. As regards the exception for metal-detection excavation, it is important to note that it does not apply to archaeologically valuable sites. That is why we intend to join the judgment of a municipality. In the form of an AMvB, the letter of the AWN will be included. I am well aware that this issue is sensitive in the field. Through the RCE I will focus on good communication, also towards municipalities, so that everyone knows where he or she is and everything we do to support everyone optimally is brought to the attention as best we can. Amateurs play an important role in the archaeological sector. It's the first time they've been given a formal basis for digging up. I also think that this is an expression of appreciation for the role of amateurs. I would like to use their knowledge and I will carefully monitor how this exception works out in practice. We have to weigh the involvement against the vulnerability of the archaeological finds. Again: in the context of the AMvB, we will continue to discuss the content of this and monitor how things work out. A few other questions have been asked. Mr Atsma asked whether there was adequate management and maintenance. He claims that a number of museums complain about the relationship between the resources for management and maintenance. Is there even a level playing field? I have spoken extensively with the museums on this issue, as well as on the accommodation of the collection under the Heritage Act and the resources for management that are held. For all museums, the posts they self-budgeted were taken as the starting point in the 2013-2016 grant application for the preservation of the collection. I don't think that's a strange starting point. That's what we do in municipalities all the time. We take historical data as the starting point for a new situation. That's what we did here. I had very intensive consultations with the Museum Association, which indicated to me in a letter dated 21 May 2015 that the approach is being broadly supported. I am aware that some museums believe that the cost of maintaining the collection is higher than the funding granted. I do not agree with Mr Schnabel and Mr Atsma that this would involve many museums. The museums I know we are talking about or have talked about are Catharijneconvent, Naturalis, the Teylers Museum, Museum Meermanno, the Zuiderzeemuseum and the National Glass Museum. That is what the Museum Association has said on behalf of all museums: we believe that we now have a well-balanced system that is widely worn.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-7.u15	I know this is about these museums. This also plays at the Open Air Museum, but in a slightly different way because the collection has a slightly different character than in an average Dutch museum. With these museums, I believe that there is no doubt that these are quite large and important museums, there are serious concerns that they are lagging behind in a number of respects, in their opinion and also in view of the figures that have been presented to me. That is why I urge you to take this into account. Even if they are not large numbers, this concerns the circle of national museums. The Rijksmuseum itself is in a different position. I'm sure it's obvious. For that museum, it actually works out very positively. The other museums therefore have an additional reason to say: we do not want to be put behind. It is, of course, the Minister's responsibility to look into this, but I would urge her to pay close attention to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-7.u16	Mr Atsma would like to respond accordingly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-7.u17	I would like to join in that. The minister mentioned six or seven museums, but I understand it has increased to ten or even more museums. The problem would be the reference year. I think that's 2013. That would get the museums in trouble. I would like to endorse Mr Schnabel's question to keep the finger on the wrist. After all, it cannot be that there are different views, while everyone has very commendable intentions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-7.u18	Of course I like to keep my finger on the wrist, but at some point we also have to make a decision. I note that there has been very extensive consultation on this and that the Museum Association, on behalf of the museums in the Netherlands, has indicated in general and all the other museums that it considers this workable. I have the impression that we have ensured that this will not cause any serious problems to museums. What's the deal now? On average 66% of the total grant relates to housing and the collection. As regards the remaining part, for public activities and other activities, the museums receive at least 90% of the 2013-2016 grant. The Museum Association itself also concludes in its letter that the risk of museums being disadvantaged is minimal. The maximum percentage by which museums could theoretically be disadvantaged is 3. On balance, this means that 97% of the 2013 subsidy will in any event also be granted in 2017-2020. It's going to be a bit of a technical story, but in addition, the collection resources and the other resources are actually communicating vessels. I understand that museums want to have as much budget as possible, but we want to introduce some dynamics into the system by, for example, looking at how public activities are handled. Once again, I believe that this is justified in view of the current situation and that the preservation of the collection is ensured both in the short term and in the longer term. It's still a plan. It's in the museums now. They can make their views known to me before 1-1-2016. Apart from the fact that I already like to keep a finger on the wrist, the museums that see it can express their views before the end of the year. I also undertake to evaluate, together with the Museum Association and the museums, whether the approach chosen does sufficient justice to the funding of the collection. If necessary, the funding may be adjusted by 2021. I will also look at the issues that the museums mentioned are afraid of.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-7.u19	I assume this means that an evaluation will be scheduled for 2018-2019.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-7.u20	The first period is 2017-2020. After that, the next period will run. That is the moment when we are being evaluated, at least when we could take a new decision again. The experiences from 2017-2020 will be involved. Mr Schnabel and Mr Atsma both asked about the state of play with regard to Maerten and Oopjen. I do not really need to explain any more. All I have to do is mention these two names. I can tell you that in the purchase of the two Rembrandts there is good cooperation between France and the Netherlands and both museums. However, it is a challenging process to buy two paintings with two countries that cannot be separated, that are vulnerable and that need the greatest possible care that is culturally conceivable. There are also complex legal aspects to this. It is therefore a delicate issue and we are at a delicate stage in the process of purchasing. That means I can't share details with you right now. I would like to say that as soon as I can share the details, I will inform both the First and Second Chambers about the results of the consultations between France and the Netherlands and the Louvre and the Rijksmuseum. Mr Schnabel asked for the re-establishment of a substantial heritage fund. We have the Purchase Fund. That was set in 1994. Its aim is to be able to purchase designated protected cultural goods at the moment when they threaten to disappear abroad. After the fund was set up, it was also used with the agreement of the House of Representatives to support important museum purchases, including the purchase of Rembrandt's two newly mentioned paintings. As a result, more than 4 million are still in the fund. So there are still resources in case something very special happens. Of course, I am committed to the fact that the Museumsal Purchase Fund is being replenished. I hope I can do that in five years. I will inform you of this every year in the annual report of my ministry. Finally, Mr Schnabel asked about monuments in earthquake areas. Like Mr Schnabel, I believe that it is very important that these monuments are protected and that we look at them in their own environment. This means that we place the cultural heritage in the physical environment. In the event of the risk of earthquakes or earthquakes, preventive action will have to be taken in the event of monuments. It will also have to be repaired. It is, of course, very important that this happens properly. My Cultural Heritage Agency is closely involved in all discussions that take place on the consequences of earthquakes in Groningen. There are good contacts with Mr Alders, who is doing his job there as the national commissioner. Mr Schnabel asked if there is a direct relationship between monuments and the built environment and the landscape. Of course, that is what we are talking about. That is why the Heritage Act is very closely aligned with the Environmental Act throughout the process and has always taken into account aspects of the Heritage Act in the design of the Environment Act. For example, in the Environment Act, the obligation to take cultural historical values into account in spatial planning of all public authorities is mandatory. The licensing of the modification of a national monument is also well regulated in the Environmental Act. Conversely, the Erfgoedwet regulates the granting of subsidies for the conservation of monuments and the quality of excavations. In fact, you could say that the Environment Act and the Culture Act are complementary to each other. There is also good coordination in the field of nature conservation. By the way, this is an area under development. You see that culture and nature are increasingly linked and are also developed in a physical environment. I can only welcome that. I hope that I have answered the questions in full and with satisfaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-7.u21	Mr. Chairman. Of course I congratulate Mr Schnabel on his thorough maiden speech on this particular area. I would like to thank the Minister for answering the questions. I had myself asked questions about the position of the IPO and the VNG, i.e. of the provinces and the municipalities. I would still like to have a more detailed explanation. One of the concerns identified by the IPO, and also by the municipalities, is that they criticize, for example, the designation of ensembles. The criticism is in particular this: if we do not know what the possible legal effects of the indication are, how can we achieve our right anywhere, in the most literal sense? I have another comment on what the Minister said about the General Measure of Management and the possible consultation with the archaeological associations. I think it is a good thing that this is being used as a point of reference to enter into this consultation with the associations in the short term. There is no doubt that the agenda will be slightly wider than just that one subject. Finally, I come to the discussion on the purchase of the Rembrandts. That it's delicate, we established a few months ago. However, it is also very important for this Chamber, at least for the CDA, to be informed in good time about the form of management, the legal entity within which both Rembrandts are housed. We indicated that it was complicated two months ago, but we are extremely curious about it. We are also curious about the state of affairs regarding the time order. When can we possibly take a physical look at what we have talked about and what we have purchased or I do not know exactly when the signature has been drawn up or is being put out to buy? This question, too, is still relevant to us in this context.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-7.u22	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to thank the Minister for the comprehensive answer to our questions, which are partly due to the concerns that we have already expressed and which have not been completely removed and may not be removed. However, I would like to continue on the issue of who is responsible for alienating, that is to say about the strange figure surrounding the legal entity governed by public law. The Minister very much points out the importance of proportionality and her concern about possible bureaucracy. On the other hand, the Minister himself states that there could not be many cases. This bureaucracy will not be as bad as it used to be. Our concern was more in the inconsistency caused by the amendment development, which gives you a strange figure. A legal person governed by public law, for example a university that wants to sell something from its museum, is not obliged to report it. Then no one really knows except the museum itself or the college board of the university that that plan is there. It is also not compulsory to set up a committee, because first it must decide whether it considers it necessary. The report of that committee shall be notified to the Minister only if it contains a negative opinion. However, the Minister is not obliged to make that public. That is a little effective option, actually an option that makes it possible to avoid everything. So our concern, which is also a bit a consequence of accepting the amendment, is that it is actually a bit half-arranged now. However, I would like to say that I welcome the Minister's commitment to strengthening the national fund to save important cultural goods in five years' time, even though it is a little long. As is well known, some museums really have that around a number of loans. This has almost always to do with the value of these loans on the market. That has started to play strongly over the past few years. So it really is something with a certain acuteness. Finally, I come to a question that might seem a bit of a joke but which was not. The law expressly states that only "Our Minister" is it very clear that that is the Minister of OCW, because that is also stated in the first articles of the law............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ My question to the Minister was: is it indeed true that all the cultural heritage of the Empire, including what is in other ministries and so on, is under the authority of the Minister of OCW? If that is not the case, it would be a bit of a strange figure, because then, for example, the Minister of Defence or the Minister of Foreign Affairs could very easily escape this law. That was just a question. Many other legislation states "Our Minister" or "the Minister concerned" in such cases, but that is not stated in this law. The question is how this is technically correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-7.u23	Mr. Chairman. I'm actually a little disappointed in the Minister's response. I had asked her to come up with something about the concerns that remain about being well-protected in the implementation. However, the Minister has defended that this law is really an improvement and that it is better than it was. Eventually, the proof of the pudding is in the eating. Maybe we should eat that law, but then we should decide afterwards whether the pudding was good and whether we should change the recipe. That is why I ask the Minister to review this law after three years, so that we can see whether there is still a need for additions to the issues on which the three parties who have spoken today have expressed their concerns. To that end, I have a handwritten motion here. I hope the chairman can read it. The President shall: Mr Gerkens, Mr Schnabel, Mr Köhler, Mr Meijer and Mr Atsma proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there are still some concerns in the comprehensive nature of the Heritage Act;]] [[Whereas it is only in the implementation that it can be concluded whether the law has the desired effects;]] [[invites the Government to review the law after three years and to report to the Chamber on it,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34109-G]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-7.u24	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank you for the general support for the law which, despite the questions that still exist, I can certainly test with these spokesmen. I'll try to answer those questions as best I can. Mr Atsma asked a question about the position and views of the IPO and the VNG. I note that the IPO and the VNG have indicated to us that they object to the possibility of appeal for the same reasons as those I mentioned earlier in the legislative proposal. He now mentions another theme: the ensembles. As far as I understand it, the VNG and the IPO are primarily concerned with promoting knowledge. The Cultural Heritage Agency is working on a knowledge programme. We inform and involve municipalities very strongly to ensure that we also protect those ensembles as well as possible. So that's what we're working on. I fully understand Mr Atsma's questions about the Rembrandts. It is indeed a question of legal indemnity and of a management standard. It's also about the time order. When will they be at the Louvre? When will they be at the Rijksmuseum? Can they or can they not travel? These are all very important questions. I hope that I can answer all these questions to the Chamber at once, but at once and when I am sure that we are ready to do so responsibly and properly. Then I will inform the Lower House and the Upper House at the same time. Mr Schnabel asked about the bodies governed by public law. Why is it regulated differently from municipalities, for example? He says it's not going to be about a lot of cases. I do not think that in many cases these are items of particular national interest. However, I believe that there can be many objects that have great significance for the organisations themselves. Then the question is whether it is proportional. Moreover, I do not believe that there is less protection because there is only a committee, only an opinion is requested from me and that advice does not need to be made public. So it can be made public. With all we have now, that is a huge step forward. The same applies to the step taken by the House of Representatives with the amendment. Of course, we will also monitor and follow this. If this is the case, a further tightening can always be introduced at a later stage. However, we would impose a huge burden on organisations if we asked them to always report their cultural goods or ask for advice on them. For example, I have made agreements with universities, to stick to a group of organisations that I myself am dealing with. We have agreed that we are trying to rely on trust and not lay down everything in rules if we don't have to. I also have the confidence that the public authorities will handle this carefully and that the cultural heritage is sufficiently protected.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-7.u25	Could I ask the Minister whether we can be confident that such an opinion will be made public when it is issued, even if it is not legally required to do so? Then there is no immediate need to invoke the Public Administration Act. It is, of course, also a matter of confidence that this is happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-7.u26	Absolutely. Agreed. That's part of it. I'm inclined to be as transparent as possible. I also believe that this can have a role, including in the debate between institutions on how my assessment is to be carried out in a particular case. Of course there is transparency. So it is actually: yes, unless there are very special reasons not to go public.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-7.u27	Of course, it was often about that. Anyway, I'm happy to hear you say that in principle it's a yes, of course we'll make that public. That is already an important step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-7.u28	In principle, it is yes, but I can never rule out the possibility of a situation where people say that the consequences are far-reaching when it comes to disclosure. So I'd like to keep that mouse hole, but I'll admit that the general rule is to make it public. We are going to work on strengthening the Purchase Fund. I had the impression that Mr Schnabel was talking more about indemnity in his question than about the Purchasing Fund. Last week I discussed this extensively with the House of Representatives. A complex problem is that a very large part of the cultural heritage may be financially assured, but not in terms of its cultural value. We must also be careful that we do not focus on insurers in the design of instruments, without knowing that the cultural aspect can be protected in itself. The need for both a good indemnity regime, which we have adapted precisely in order to make greater use of the indemnity, and the addition of the Purchase Fund, is very close to my heart. Mr Schnabel's question as to whether all the cultural heritage of the Empire falls under me as Minister of OCW, I am happy to answer in the affirmative. I do not need to go around asking my colleagues if they would please handle their heritage properly and carefully in the event of alienation. The Minister of OCW, according to the law, administers the national collection under private law and represents the Empire in the event of alienation. Finally, I come to the Gerkens c.s motion. in letter G. In it the government is asked to review the law after three years. On the one hand, I am very much inclined to answer the very last questions that Mrs Gerkens and others still have so that they can vote for this law with confidence, because they know that it will be properly implemented. On the other hand, heritage is often about a longer period of time. It calls for social discussions. There may also be local aspects, where one case is often not enough. You also need to have different cases in order to be able to see if things are working properly. And fortunately alienation is not the order of the day, so we need time to look at the effects of certain decisions. Then it is important to have the time to make it work, to determine how something works. That is why I intend to review the law after five years. I did say that we are going to monitor a number of points. So I hope to satisfy the Chamber when I say that we are formally reviewing the law after five years, but that if there are any signals, I will at least give out those signals within three years to inform the Chamber separately. An evaluation takes a lot of work, time and money. It is a kind of risk approach: if we have signals that there are a lot of concerns about whether there is a lot going on in some part of the law, I will inform the Chamber separately. However, I will do the full and comprehensive evaluation after five years. I could promise that. I would therefore advise against the motion as it now stands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-7.u29	I think the Minister's commitment is fantastic. I'd be happy to agree to that. That means I'm withdrawing the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-7.u30	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That is not the case.
