ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. As a representative of an opposition party, I actually have only three questions at the moment, which basically amount to whether the government agrees with me. Further on in my speech I will motivate, with which I agree. During the last debate on this matter on 17 March last, I believe that too many things have been confused, as the Secretary of State has repeatedly pointed out. I am referring in particular to phosphate production and soil binding. When reporting on the course of events in our group it was noted that it was perhaps a result of too many spokesmen coming from Amsterdam, a region where the problem of land-based growth in dairy farming is most likely to be less. Since I myself come from a similar region, namely Utrecht, I would like to start with a summary of the problem as I see it, with the question to the Secretary of State whether my story is correct. As prosperity in the world is increasing, the demand for dairy products has increased. In this light, it would be strange for Europe to continue to limit milk production. This will help to eliminate the milk quota system as from 1 April 2015. A number of real agricultural countries, such as Ireland and the Netherlands, see additional opportunities for growth and exports, but of course within the Nitrates Directive and manure legislation. The proposal before us is designed to make this possible. Hence the name responsible growth. The law as such doesn't say anything about ground-boundity. The latter should be settled at AMvB. That is what the debate is about this afternoon. Question one is, is my story true? In the debates so far we, as CDA, have been working in both chambers on the definition of the concept of land, the problem-solving regime for entrepreneurs who had already spent money before the scheme was finally known and the idea of recycling. Not letting the AMvB continue at the moment means that dairy farmers are currently able to expand their livestock within environmental rules, but without soil-boundness. My second identical question to the Secretary of State is whether this is true. If the answer is affirmative, I would like to hear who might be interested in not letting the AMvB continue. I also refer to the joint letter from LTO and Nature and Environment. I see it as well as both actors in the sector. Who has an interest at the moment in the non-land-based expansion of livestock? We await the answers of the Secretary of State to our rather simple questions with great interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u3	Mr. Chairman. Today we are dealing with an AMVB which will have a major impact on the development of dairy farming in the Netherlands. Will dairy farming remain ground-bound, will the cow stay in the pasture, will the scale-up and industrialisation be stopped? I would like to start with a few comments on the context in which my group, GroenLinks, assesses this AMVB. The dairy farming was until not so long ago a kind of light point in Dutch intensive livestock farming. Cows in pasture, animal welfare properly in order, less damage to nature and the environment than industrial pig and chicken farming, few megast. Unfortunately, that image is changing rapidly, especially in the last two years. Since it is clear that the milk quota is going to disappear, a unfortunate mistake by the EU and the Netherlands, dairy farmers have already begun to expand their dairy herd considerably in 2013. And that's why they had to pay a lot of fines because they exceeded their quota, so be it. I was a guest at a conference of the Dutch Dairy Organisation a few months ago and heard that this behaviour was even welcomed. After all, that was evidence of good entrepreneurship. Because the Dutch dairy farming must conquer the world, up to and including the cheese on the pizzas in China. Growing what you can grow, that's like the motto. Where should all that extra milk and cheese go, the Rabobank also wondered in 2013. And is it not more sensible and socially desirable to focus on more sustainable production at lower costs than on increasing milk production, more more, against large investments and debts to the bank? My group is not happy about this picture. Unfortunately, dairy farming is causing increasing environmental damage due to too much phosphate, too high ammonia emissions, greenhouse gas emissions, damage to nature and the disappearance of meadow birds due to overly intensive management. The cow slowly disappears from the meadow and especially on the large intensive farms cows are mainly inside. We do not comply with Europe's environmental standards and will have some respite as long as we do not make it crazy. Therefore, there is a phosphate ceiling and we have limits to the quantities of manure/phosphate that may be landed per hectare through the Fertilisers Act. With the abolition of milk quotas, precisely in the light of these developments, a fundamental step has been taken in the wrong direction. Anyway, that's an irreversible step for the time being. Despite all these negative effects, the number of cows continues to grow; the Secretary of State itself expects a growth of 20%. For example, a recent study by the Centre for Agriculture and the Environment (CLM) shows a significant growth, especially from very large companies. In Brabant, where there is already enough intensive livestock farming and scavenging, the number of megasthals in dairy farming grows from 38 in 2013 to 143 in 2015. That's more than a triple. By the way, they are authorised companies for 2015. So that growth is coming. In Gelderland, the number of megasthals grows from 30 in 2013 to 66 in 2015. It is precisely these large farms that almost always set the cows up, have too little land to get rid of their manure and take a large part of their food far away, such as soya from South America. The idea of closed-loop farms has little to do with this development; it is going exactly the wrong way. That is why we look extremely critically at this law and the AMvB that is before us. The dairy farming law in force on 1 January, with a view to the expiry of milk quotas, regulates the production of extra phosphate due to the additional cows within cross-compliance conditions, the Secretary of State wrote to our Chamber on 9 March last. If a dairy farm produces more phosphate in a calendar year than in the reference year 2013, the additional phosphates should be placed on the land belonging to the holding, or processed as a whole, or a combination of both possibilities. Fortunately, Parliament has forced that a dairy farm should never only process those extra phosphates, but that a farm should always have sufficient land to dispose of at least part of the phosphates. In other words, groundless growth must not be allowed, growth must always be partly ground bound. Unfortunately, the dairy law, which entered into force on 1 January, did not provide the legal basis for land-relatedness and the degree of land-relatedness. 'Cause that's the key question, of course. When do you call growth ground-bound and what part of growth should be linked to extra land? That is what we are discussing today in the discussion of this AMvB. With the AMvB, the Secretary of State prescribes that the growth should be partly land-based, unless within his own farm there is sufficient land for more dairy cows. The members of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance think that the content of this amendment is insufficient. They also have a major problem with regulating the foundation of ground bonding in an AMvB. This is supposed to have a legal basis. The House adopted Mr Reuten's motion for a resolution in December when the Milk Cattle Act was discussed. The Court has thus stated that the content of the AMvB should be incorporated into the law itself and asked the State Secretary to take this forward with speed, so I read the document at the same time as the route for the AMvB. First, I have a number of questions about the content of the AMvB and then I come back to the question of its transposition into a legislative proposal. Companies with a phosphate surplus of less than 20 kilos per hectare may grow without additional land. If that surplus is between 20 and 50 kilos, farms have to buy additional land for only a quarter of their additional dairy cows or use land in a structural way. In the case of a surplus of more than 50 kilos per hectare, farms need to buy or use additional land for half of the number of additional cows. There is no limit: there is no maximum quantity of surplus per hectare. So companies can grow and intensify enormously, and only half of that growth will have to have additional land. We do not call this land-based growth. It is precisely the group of large companies that causes a large increase in phosphate production and usually keeps the cows in stables. Even if they expand with a few hundred dairy cows, in extreme cases up to more than 500 or 1,000, they only need to use half of the number of cows extra land. In summary, dairy farms can still grow 50% to 100% without land. We're very disappointed with the AMvB. Although the measure inhibits unbridled groundless growth and regulates for the most intensive and large-scale companies that they should have land for at least half of growth, it certainly does not look like the nice picture of land-based growth that the Secretary of State told us about. We do not think that meadowgang plays any role in this AMvB and will continue to run backwards. My group still has a number of questions about the content. Why does the Secretary of State opt for the reference year 2014 and not 2013 as it does in the Fertilisers Act? After all, it was precisely in 2013 that the growth spurt was deployed and dairy farmers deliberately exceeded their milk quotas. This behavior is now rewarded, at least for all growth in 2013. Is the Secretary of State prepared to set the reference year for 2013? Dairy farming is approaching the phosphate ceiling of 84.9 million kilos. Recent figures from the CBS show that phosphate production already increased to 82.4 million kilos in 2014. That's only 2 million kilos below the phosphate ceiling. Rabobank warns that we will quickly go through that ceiling, which also jeopardises the conditions under which Europe is granting a derogation to the Netherlands. Will the Secretary of State urgently prepare a system of cow rights which can enter immediately as soon as the phosphate ceiling is reached? Will it promise that this system will enter into force overnight as soon as the ceiling is reached? Will it report to the Chamber on a monthly basis, for example, on the increase in manure, so that it is immediately clear when the phosphate ceiling is in sight and reached and there can be a direct limit to growth with cow rights?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u4	For the record, Mrs Vos is now calling for animal rights for dairy farming. Does it want to replace the land-based nature of dairy farming?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u5	No, I don't. My appeal to the Secretary of State is to prepare this, and I'm not saying that we have to do this already. My group would like to see that done. If it turns out that in the coming year we will not succeed enough to remain below the phosphate ceiling, then the system of cow rights should be able to enter into force immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u6	I heard Mrs Vos say this before, but my question was whether animal rights, dairy rights should replace land-based dairy farming or that they should be put on top of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u7	I believe that this is an additional measure to the agreements on land-based growth. If we do not manage to get below the phosphate ceiling with the regulations that we are now introducing for soil-based growth, then there will need to be an additional measure. As far as my group is concerned, these are animal rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u8	I got that right. As a result, two systems, which are not rooted on the same basis, are interlocked in dairy farming.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u9	I think that at that point you should look very closely at how to coordinate these systems properly, but I absolutely believe that we need the cow rights as a lock on the door and that they should be able to enter immediately as soon as we reach the phosphate ceiling.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u10	Wouldn't it have been much easier to be against ground-boundness and directly for animal rights?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u11	The proposal now before us is a proposal for ground-boundness. That, too, brings things quite far in the right direction, but I would argue in favour of a lock on the door that can enter immediately when we cross the ceiling. Unfortunately, that's a pretty big chance. Mr. Chairman. I ask the Secretary of State to set up the system of cow rights in such a way that the land-based farms, we often talk about farms with less than 20 kilos of phosphate surplus per hectare, which are the last ones to skim their cow rights, and we start with the most intensive farms with a high phosphate surplus and many cows per hectare, where they are the first to surrender their cow rights. We would find it unfair if the smaller and less intensive farms were affected just as hard by a measure like the reduction of cow rights as the really large farms, which are largely responsible for the strong growth. Will the Secretary of State at least ensure that the legal title of the land that can count for the determination of the phosphate surplus is not extended and that the manure law is not amended to this effect? Does the Secretary of State intend to regulate land-boundness in relation to grazing by requiring, among other things, that there is sufficient land near the stable, the farm for the entire dairy herd? Does it intend to give a legal basis to its commitment to a pasture of at least 80% of cows in this way? Does the Secretary of State intend to tighten up the standards of soil density and work towards a situation where there is sufficient land within 20 kilometres of the farm, so that all feed can be grown on that land and the manure can be disposed of on it? Does she ultimately want to get to that situation? Those were some questions about the contents of the AMvB. That brings me to the legal basis. My group attaches great importance to the legal basis for ground-boundness, as I have just said. My group thinks it is wrong that more and more empty legislation is being dealt with here; we were just discussing it with the Secretary of State. My group thinks that this legislation is really too lean. The really fundamental cores, the basic concepts must be regulated in legislation. This will also enable Parliament to have full parliamentary scrutiny and decision-making. My group therefore calls on the Secretary of State to convert this AMvB into a law as a matter of urgency, so that it can enter into force on 1 January 2016. In fact, it is asking her to implement Mr Reuten's motion, which has been adopted with broad support. My group has been surprised that the Secretary of State, in his written reply to the House of Representatives, has taken a rather laconical attitude towards that motion. My group is also surprised that the Secretary of State has informed the House of Representatives that she is simply not going to make it to 1 January. Among other things, it raises the issue of the referendum law, which will enter into force on 1 July and will allow this law to be subject to a referendum. That would, according to the Secretary of State, take eight weeks extra time. Article 12 of the referendum law allows the law to enter into force immediately, while the deadline of eight weeks before the referendum has yet to be completed. That is, of course, an exception clause, but these possibilities are indeed contained in the referendum law. In any case, my group is not convinced that it is really not going to work and thinks that the Secretary of State says too easily that it is not going to work and that it is impossible. She asked her to make every effort to bring this law into force on 1 January. She also asked the Secretary of State for a commitment on this point. I'll come to a conclusion. My group is extremely critical of this AMvB. Ground-boundness is not sufficiently secured. I explained this criticism in detail and asked the Secretary of State to fill in and ensure much more closely the ground-boundness, also in relation to sufficient pasture. I have put a number of specific questions to that effect and I await the answer with great interest. In addition, we consider it necessary that this AMvB be transposed as soon as possible into a law that can enter into force on 1 January 2016. This transposition into legislation is a crucial point for my group. On this point, too, I await with extraordinary interest the reply of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u12	I listened with interest to Mr Vos' speech. Does the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance also believe that landboundness has been wrongly separated from the concept of grazing? Groundboundness was initially intended to guarantee grazing, but has actually turned into a pubesque, which can lie far from the farm, even in Germany or Belgium. Does Mr Vos agree with me that landboundness in that legislation should be defined in such a way that there is a relationship with grazing? Does she agree with me that it shouldn't be: if you have a patch of land somewhere, is it okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u13	I agree with Mr Koffeman. A relationship with pasture must be established. That's what I just said. It's broader, by the way. It is also a question of being able to put its manure on its own round and to produce its roughage on its own soil. As far as we are concerned, it is therefore a broader concept, but it is a basic condition for sustainable livestock farming, of which grazing is a crucial part.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u14	Mr. Chairman. On 16 December 2014, the Act responsible growth dairy farming (33979) in the Eerste Kamer was treated as a matter of urgency and was adopted on the same day. This law entered into force on 1 January 2015. In December 2014 there was a long series of last minute urgent legislative proposals. In a letter dated 15 December 2014 to the President of the First Chamber, I wondered, among other things, whether the prescribed timetable offered me sufficient time to prepare as a representative of the people to carry out my controlling role carefully, i.e. properly. Moreover, I asked whether the alleged haste was justified in all cases. As one-man group, I was certainly not in a position to express a responsible opinion on some of those urgent proposals, including 33979. It has now become clear that far from all the legislative proposals presented as urgent in December 2014 were real. If the First Chamber is called upon to act as a matter of urgency on a legislative proposal, the government can of course be expected to proceed with at least the same urgency. Was that the case here? My group has the greatest possible doubt about this. In this case, it was an empty framework law, with the promise to present a General Administrative Measure by 1 March 2015 to further implement the implementation of this Framework Act. This unusual procedure was accepted by the First Chamber under pressure from the loss of derogation. However, the planned deadline for the AMvB for the dairy law of 1 March was not met. At the request of colleague Koffeman, an interview with the State Secretary took place on 17 March 2015 about the situation. During that debate, I myself pointed out that the absence of the promised AMvB, which is intended to have its effect retroactively from 1 January 2015, is problematic. How can all those entrepreneurs who, until the AMvB comes out, do not know where they stand, take account of measures that they cannot yet know? Finally, on 29 March 2015, in a letter to both Chambers, the government made the AMvB world knowledgeable. The AMvB focuses on land-basedness, which is an important social prerequisite for the sector to continue to produce. At least, it seems so. The dairy farmers who are united in Cows & Opportunities see plenty of possibilities for expansion without the purchase of land. Research carried out by the Centre for Agriculture and the Environment shows that the sector has already made an advance on extreme growth through early implementation of enlargement permits. I have a question for the chairman. I would like to make two links to these issues in the report. How do I get those links in the report? I can read them to you, but I don't think that's a very practical method. We can also agree that these links will be included in the report by means of the written annex I have tabled. I would like to hear the President's opinion on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u15	They are mentioned in your text, which has been submitted and which is also present with the stenographer, I assume. It contains, on page 2, two notes with a website, a site. I assume that this remark will make them an integral part of your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u16	That was exactly my intention, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Mr. Chairman. Where are we now? In any case, my group recognizes two major problems. Firstly, the impression has been given to a large extent that the same haste that has been requested from the First Chamber has not been felt and practiced to a comparable extent by the government itself. It would have been a lot more elegant if the government itself had honoured the willingness of the First Chamber to cooperate as a matter of urgency, with similar urgency, drive and decisiveness. Secondly, there is the fact that an issue as important as the future of dairy farming in the Netherlands is regulated by AMvB and not by law. Such an approach is envisaged by the government in more cases. And let me be painfully honest: in my group, the idea occasionally arises that this government should elect an AMvB to avoid the rather difficult and time-consuming treatment of a bill in both chambers. From the point of view of democratic control, that seems to me to be a bad idea, for which the First Chamber should not lend itself uncritically. In summary. The handling of the bill of lading, and in particular the alleged urgency which has been attributed to the First Chamber, does not seem to be in line with the State Secretary's subsequent pace of work. That raises the question of how seriously the government takes the Upper Chamber. My group also strongly believes that an AMvB is not a preferred approach in this case. Since several colleagues in the First Chamber will discuss the more substantive aspects of the AMvB, I would like to limit myself, in order to save time, to these more procedural questions in the first period. I would like to know from the Secretary of State if she is prepared to settle the content of the present AMvB by law in such a way that that legislation will be in force on 1 January 2016, i.e. on the chosen date of entry into force of the AMvB. The Secretary of State is aware of the fact that 15 members of this house may encounter her AMvB, so she could be forced into legislation if she does not voluntarily choose to do so. Finally, my group of the Secretary of State wants to know whether, should the Netherlands break the European phosphate ceiling, it will introduce a system of animal rights overnight, as is customary with amended VAT rates. Mr Vos has spoken extensively and eloquently about this, and I am happy to endorse it. And if so, is such a system of animal rights for dairy farming already in concept? I await with interest the Secretary of State's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u17	Thank you very much, Mr De Lange. I now have all kinds of papers before me, because I would like to examine your comment on the fifteen Members who can find an AMvB in writing. I will come back to that later. I call Mr Schaap.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u18	Mr. Chairman. I must first apologize for the fact that I have no written text. I come fresh from abroad and was not able to prepare this so punctually, but my speaking time is short. I don't need much either. In dealing with the dairy law, I went into detail together with others on the question of land, which we felt should have been regulated in the law rather than in an AMvB. This is the kind of discussion we have these days. Let me put it this way: there is a higher urgency for me at the moment than this legal systematic. I want the law and the AMvB to be in force as soon as possible, so that the livestock sector knows what it is up to and has a bit of a clear picture of what the sector is facing in the coming years. If there is anything that the agricultural sector in general and the dairy sector in particular needs, it is certainty. It will then be possible to set out a track for our own policies, particularly for the investments to be made in the years to come. There is more to it than just expanding dairy farming for farms that have a good sense of the future. Other environmental investments should also be made, for example in the stables related to the issue of ammonia and animal welfare. There are quite a few dairy farmers who have not only started investing in their stables because of the anticipation of the end of the quota scheme. They also want to comply with other legislation. That's why they started investing in their stables. This is almost always accompanied by enlargement. Much more than half of the farmers in the Netherlands certainly have no successor. The companies that have a sense of the future are always companies that take over the quota of others in terms of land and adapt to the future. Of course, this has now also been accompanied by a view on the expiry of the dairy quota system. And there's a problem. One is faced with the dairy farming law and the AMvB, which means that it is ground bound. There are quite a lot of companies that did not know that with certainty in advance and have therefore started to invest. Those are the so-called troubles. I'd like to hear how the Secretary of State feels about these troubles. Does it intend to compensate for the threat that some of these companies face? We would like to hear about this, because many companies are getting into trouble. Of course, this is more important in the intensive areas than in those with a large base. Contrary to other groups, I am very pleased that the ground-boundness is not legally bound to the grazing. I have said it before and I would like to repeat it once again: we must beware of romance or anthropomorphisms in legislation. In cows, it's very strong. We like 20 ̊ or 30 ̊ above zero very much. That's what we call nice weather, but it's a disaster for a cow. With everything above 20 ̊ a cow feels extremely unhappy. I was in Ukraine for a long weekend. A Dutch farmer who does a great job there and who follows all this, said: what the hell are you doing? He had just built a large stable on a huge arable farm where the cows could walk freely in and out. At 20 degrees below zero, they walk out, but at 20 degrees above zero, they all stay inside. I'm just saying this to make it clear that a cow reacts slightly differently to the physical environment than humans. Another and perhaps new hot item in this romance is the fact that the cows go out again in spring. Then you see all the crawling cows doing the meadow dance. But that's a very frivolous interpretation. In fact, the cows suddenly end up in the light. That's why they get so stressed out and they start jumping around wild. If you put them in another stable, you'll see the same pattern. So it has nothing to do with a joy dance in the meadow, but rather with the deadly fear of what awaits them now. Please beware of regulations based on not too much knowledge and based on anthropomorphism. Unfortunately, people are very good at that. There has already been talk of animal rights, not only for poultry farming and pig farming, but also for dairy farming. Does the Secretary of State, as I have heard this morning in the Netherlands, intend to have legislation ready for the establishment of animal rights in the event of phosphate problems? So it's gonna be plus-plus? Will it then become ground-bound and animal rights? I'm terrified of that. Then there are again unexpected new rules to which one has to react again. Ground-relatedness increases costs. You can already see that everywhere in agriculture. The land price is rising rapidly. That also makes sense, because there is more demand for it. If we get animal rights, another factor will come up. In that case, rights must be acquired by purchasing them. Of course, there is also a price. However, the burden will of course come to an end.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u19	I haven't heard from Senator Schaap about the contents of the AMvB. So I assume he has no further objection to that. He said the sector would benefit from security. I totally agree with him. I think we should take care of that. At the same time, the EU phosphate ceiling, as I would like to mention briefly, is in danger of being broken. If that happens, the whole security for the sector will be lost. So it would be good if Senator Schaap would connect those two things. You cannot say that this AMvB is fine and that we let God's water walk over God's field. The certainty which Mr Schaap wants, and which I also wish, is certainly related to the content of this AMvB.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u20	I have two comments on the phosphate ceiling. There are also private-law initiatives in dairy farming. The whole sector, the whole chain is involved. This also involves efficient fertilization and reducing mineral use. These initiatives must also have full scope. In addition, we still have the manure processing obligation. If you go over it, the manure processing plants will be ready to absorb the surplus if it's all right. There will be an end to the further imposition of rules on this subject. Indeed, the sector needs security, especially in the long term. It is about investments, in land but also in much better buildings that comply with the legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u21	However, I find that Senator Schaap is being rather easy about the phosphate ceiling. He points out the private-law initiatives, but if that ceiling is reached, tough measures will have to be taken. They are contrary to the certainty that is now being offered. This could be a very short-term certainty. Those investments don't fit in with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u22	If it is exceeded, the manure will have to be disposed of. A method of disposing of manure is to process manure and to ensure that the manure can be disposed of over longer distances. That's what the sector is waiting for. I say that quite easily, but I am well aware that this is not easy for agricultural practice at all. However, all this is regulated by law. I did not hear the industry protest about this. On the contrary, as in the case of land-based industries, the sector itself has embraced all possible initiatives to address this problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u23	So Mr Schaap does not see animal rights when that phosphate ceiling is reached. He says that the sector itself will then arrange for the manure to be disposed of. But that's really just the question. We all know that the manure processing capacity has not yet been sufficiently developed in the Netherlands. We also know that it all has negative side effects.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u24	Which one?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u25	It costs space, it is burdensome for the environment, it has environmental effects and it costs extra traffic. So you can't do that endlessly. We really have a problem when the livestock gets out of the pan and we go through the ceiling. Then Europe says: you do not keep the agreement, so you must act now. And I think animal rights are the only option.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u26	I certainly didn't agree with that last one. If a manure treatment plant is set up, it will obviously cost space. This applies to all investments. Furthermore, such a treatment plant must comply with a building permit, environmental permits and a Wvo permit, as it used to be called. That's it. If those permits are granted, the legislator can never have any problem with them. In short, this is the route.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u27	Suppose, at the end of this year, that's what the Rabobank predicted, and we're already going through that phosphate ceiling. Then you must be able to do something immediately. Mr Schaap agrees with me, doesn't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u28	Then the sector will have a considerable task to fill in quickly, that is correct. I agree with Mrs. Vos. The legal basis for this is that diptych. All kinds of private-law initiatives are added. On that base, it's just supposed to work. The sector itself has signed up for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u29	Maybe one last comment. The sector has announced a number of things, but we also know that a number of things have not yet been enough. The fact that the phosphate ceiling is coming into sight so quickly is merely an illustration of that. Apparently now it is not possible to keep that case in place sufficiently and then you will have to intervene immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u30	Let us first see what really happens to phosphate production. I believe that there will be sufficient instruments to go further. I wanted to say something about animal rights. There's one more negative point to it. You can produce more milk by keeping more cows on it and you can also produce more milk by hunting the productivity of the animals. I would not like to create an additional impetus through animal rights in order to increase the productivity of animals in a not too natural way. In my words, the Secretary of State may have some difficulty in establishing animal rights for dairy farming. Let me just say it in this rhetorical way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u31	I notice that Mr Schaap, a representative of a liberal party, is advocating a sector that swallows up huge subsidies, €25,000 per dairy farm, and a sector that breaks the law massively.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u32	Huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u33	The manure treatment takes place illegally in the Netherlands for 30% to 40%, according to LTO Netherlands. If I'm lying, I'm lying on commission.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u34	No, you don't lie on commission...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u35	Sorry, I wanted to finish my question first. Mr Schaap also says that if farmers are to have fewer cows, they are going to hunt down the production by cow. He does not say much about this sector: they will produce either way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u36	No, I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u37	Perhaps he could explain it further, because that is how I heard him say it and I understood it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u38	Mr Koffeman is good at interpreting things I say. I said that there would be a threat that we might not want, namely to increase productivity per cow. It is fine if productivity increases, if this is done in a gradual manner through breeding. Then that's a deal. We shouldn't provoke more than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u39	I hear Mr Schaap say it again. That threat comes from the sector, I have to assume. No one else is threatening.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u40	Not at all. I'll think of it here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u41	Okay, it's your own threat.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u42	No, it's not a threat. I am saying that it might be possible, as I mean by 'Threatening' that the possibility of not buying more rights to keep animals is to drive productivity. Well, I'd rather not see that happen too much.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u43	This has, of course, happened a great deal in the past. By nature, a cow does not give much more than 4,000 litres of milk per year and productivity has been hunted down to 12,000 litres of milk per year. I hear Mr Schaap say that if an animal rights system is introduced, productivity risks being further hunted down. Did I understand him that well?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u44	I could put it that way. Yeah, exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u45	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u46	Moreover, the cow by nature does not give at all 4,000 litres of milk, but perhaps not even 1,000 litres. This is about the questionio facti. A wild animal that has never been bred with gives short-lived milk for a calf and that is a little bit per day. I still have to see that she gets the 1,000 gallons a year. However, we do not have anything to do with natural animals in animal husbandry, not even with common pets. They're all bred, bred and adapted. In short, there is no need to refer to nature. Mr. Chairman. With the last thing I said about animal rights, I was finished.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u47	Mr. Chairman. My input covers two parts. I first discuss the formal route of how the present AMvB is incorporated into the law. I shall then briefly discuss its content. On 17 December, the Chamber adopted the law on responsible growth in dairy farming. A key element of what should be regulated, namely the land-based growth of dairy farming, was delegated to a scheme per AMvB. The Court considered that that delegation should be temporary and asked the government to "prepare a law amending the substance of the general measure of governance and the importance of ground-basedness in the law" in line with the draft general measure of governance. It recorded this on 17 December in the motion adopted unanimously under letter G (33979). There are now two ways of implementing the Court's wish, namely legislation by law. The first way is to stop the AMvB under Article 21 of the Fertiliserenwet, after which the Secretary of State was held to regulate what is in the AMvB by law. This is not my group's preferred route. The second way is through the implementation of the said motion. For the time being, my group prefers this because it is the wish of the entire Chamber. It is then up to the government to submit the amendment law mentioned in the motion first to the House of Representatives. My group asks the Secretary of State to do so by 1 September 2015. That is not a difficult task, because the AMvB is ready with explanation and can be inserted fairly easily into the current law. I believe that this can be done within three weeks, after which, through the cabinet, the Council of State can be consulted. In short, my group is asking the Secretary of State, and hence the Government, for the 'as of 1 September' commitment I have just mentioned. As far as the formal side of this debate is concerned, we will soon be finished. If the Secretary of State does not make this commitment, I will consider my group to follow the route of stopping the AMvB. The second part of my contribution concerns the content of what is currently contained in the AMvB. The Secretary of State said on 17 December: "I can undertake to do so in the House of Representatives that, if the majority wishes to make changes to it, I will follow it of course." She also mentioned specific numbers for which this would apply. This is the Secretary of State's undertaking. I'd like to leave her to the difficult parolee of the permanence in the Chambers. On 17 December, the Secretary of State treated the members to a little sweetness and especially to the sunny picture of a seemingly happy cow in the meadow. I am showing Members and the President the somewhat enlarged picture at the moment. The Secretary of State will remember. A happy cow does "muuh."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u48	I do not know how that should be included in the Acts, Mr Reuten.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u49	I have recorded it phonetically in my speech, Mr. Chairman. A cow that can't go out, cries "aerh." I am happy to be corrected by the Secretary of State on the sound level, because she is often among the cows, I suppose. I believe that dairy farming should in principle be fully land-based. If I see correctly, this is also the Secretary of State's ideal. It would be even better if the ground bondage were arranged in such a way that all cows could go into the meadow. Together this is good for the environment and makes cow life less unpleasant. It is also good for the environment and livestock-loving farmers. There's a lot of them, I hear around me. But we're not that far. With the present AMvB we stray from the clean target. The AMvB reasons in terms of the so-called "milk cattle phosphate surpluses'. These surpluses are bad for public health and bad for the environment that we leave our children. In terms of old writing, they testify to poor stewardship. The Secretary of State wants to reduce the phosphate surplus, but the effect of the AMvB does not result in less filth, but in less growth of dirt. For medium-sized and large dairy farmers, only 25% to 50% of growth requires land-related growth. My group does not consider that to be ambitious. In my group's view, this does not fit in with the certainty that we really need to provide the sector. I fully agree with Senator Schaap on that last point. I fear with great fear that we will be shooting through the phosphate ceiling in this type of figure. Then the sector is even further away from home. I therefore propose to the Secretary of State and the spokesperson that the AMvB, and then the law, should be amended in such a way that more stringent growth standards apply to the most intensive dairy farms with a relatively high excess phosphate. For those with a surplus of more than 50 kg/ha, that is the top category in the current AMvB forecast I propose 75% land-based growth instead of the 50% from the AMvB. For the companies with a surplus of more than 100 kg/ha I propose 100% land-based growth. I would like to hear the reaction of the Secretary of State and the other spokesmen. We will, of course, have to decide by majority. Furthermore, the sector should be expected to reduce the level of phosphate surplus in the longer term by means of full land binding, i.e. land in the vicinity of livestock farming. This is for reasons also mentioned by Senator Vos. At present, the most intensively-producing part of the sector is likely to expand around 10% of dairy farmers until the EU intervenes, which will have repercussions for the sector as a whole. The well-intentioned farmers will be the victims. In other words, the current AMvB seems to be turning against the sector as a whole. Does the Secretary of State take full responsibility for this? Finally, I come to the related question of grazing; it has already been discussed. That grazing is not now regulated. My group also believes that landboundness and grazing should be directly linked. My group is asking the Secretary of State to regulate the grazing by law. This fits with the beautiful picture she gave us on December 17th. I await the Secretary of State's answers with interest. I take the picture, which now hangs on the speaker chair, but again, because I don't want to bother the next speaker with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u50	You also want the picture to be included in the Acts, Mr Reuten? I cannot guarantee that it will be placed in the Acts because it has not been delivered phonetically by you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u51	Mr. Chairman. "The coalition has corrupted its relationship with parliament. The desire for power has won the respect for the people's representatives. An elementary blunder. Only one response fits: off the table that threat." Hans Wiegel wrote that on 23 December in the NRC about the rule of AMvB. The President of the First Chamber said on 31 December in an interview with the same newspaper that an AMvB should never have the intention to change the heart of a law. The comments mentioned were about another AMvB, but in essence they touched the core of the objection of governing at AMvB. An AMvB should not be meant to pass the people's representatives and should not be intended to change a law in essence. This is exactly what happens with the AMvB land-based growth of dairy farming in relation to the Implementing Decision Fertiliserswet for the responsible growth of dairy farming. The AMvB's ink wasn't dry yet, or the sector started to calculate how many extra cows were possible without having to acquire additional soil for it. The project Cows & Opportunities, which co-operates with Wageningen University, was the first to produce a report showing that an average of 25 additional cows per farm were best placed without having to acquire additional land. Last week the CLM report followed on the basis of already authorised expansion possibilities for dairy farming in three provinces, namely Utrecht, Gelderland and Noord-Brabant. On this basis, an image of an explosively growing sector is emerging. Based on permits granted, a significant increase in the dairy population is possible: 19% in Utrecht, 28% in Gelderland and 24% in Brabant. In total, the current active dairy farms in these three provinces can keep 33% more dairy cows than there were in 2014. Converted to the whole of the Netherlands, dairy farmers can keep 350,000 to 550,000 more dairy cows. That is an increase in the number of dairy cows by 15% to 36%. In Brabant alone, municipalities and provinces have given the green light to 143 megasthals, with the cows never coming out. Nationally, this predicts an increase of hundreds of megasthals. Not to intervene now means that the Netherlands will soon be a land full of mega-stables, with fewer and fewer cows in the meadows. We won't approach this anthropomorphically, but it's nice when cows can go out. That is just what Mr Schaap himself said. It is worth looking at how we got here and what we can do against this dike breach of milk and manure. The conditions laid down by the Cabinet to prevent the unbridled growth of dairy farming have a high "who lives, who cares" level. The Labour Party didn't come out with coalition partner VVD. That is why the Secretary of State has chosen a flight forward with an AMvB that leaves much to be desired for clarity. In this house on 17 December, the Act responsible growth dairy farming was adopted. One of the main themes that had to be regulated was the land-based responsible growth of dairy farming, with the emphasis on "responsible'. The members of this house were not happy with the fact that the law had to be treated with steam and boiling water because it would have to enter into force on 1 January because of Brussels regulations. They reluctantly agreed to the promise that an AMvB would be offered on 1 March for further details. But as much haste as there was with the law, so little haste there is now with the AMvB. Its introduction is only envisaged before 1 January 2016. The First Chamber unanimously considered that the scheme should be temporary in nature at AMvB and asked the government "to prepare, in parallel with the elaboration of the proposed general measure of governance, an amending law incorporating the essence of the general measure of governance and the significance of land-basedness into the law." This was stated in a motion by Mr Reuten, Mr Thom de Graaf, Mr Terpstra, Mr Schaap, Mr Thissen and myself, which was adopted unanimously. It was therefore expected that the Secretary of State, now that she chooses to allow the AMvB to enter into force only next year, would have announced at the same time that this would be regulated by law, with the AMvB being no more than a temporary measure. Nothing could be further from the truth. There is nothing to indicate the preparation of a proper regulation by law. Once again, this is not a respectful attitude towards the people's representatives. The First Chamber has a means of enforcing the Chamberwide motion for a regulation by law, but does not like to use it. Today, the Secretary of State can promise to ensure that legislation is taken forward in such a way that the means of interruption will not be necessary. For example, the AMvB could simply enter into force pending the promised, widely requested regulation by law. As you know, the AMvB can be stopped when 15 members in this house so request. In the absence of an AMvB, the cabinet would therefore be obliged to regulate the enlargement criteria for the dairy sector by law. It does not have to come to that when the Secretary of State chooses eggs for her money and gives up the impression that half an egg would be better than an empty shell and that the choice will end.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u52	Does Mr Koffeman now use the threat that he will attempt to stop the AMvB if the Secretary of State does not now undertake to convert the AMvB into law without delay?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u53	It's definitely not a threat. It is a legitimate means that the Chamber is at its disposal. This house has unanimously asked the Secretary of State to set up the scheme by law. We asked for this to be done as soon as possible. Now that the Secretary of State has chosen to allow the AMvB to enter into force on 1 January 2016, and so there is plenty of room to use the intervening time for legislation, I am indeed going to make an attempt to break the law. I would much rather not do that, but if the Secretary of State is not prepared to have that legislation ready by 1 January 2016, then I have no option but to make an attempt to stop.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u54	I don't mean by "threat" that it would be an illegal action or anything. It is perfectly legal and legitimate to try to do so, but I would like to comment on the consequence. If the Secretary of State does not undertake to immediately convert the AMvB and the AMvB is interrupted, then there is no settlement at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u55	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u56	In short, freedom is joy, if I may put it as simple as that, for the sector and he can deal with enlargement as he likes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u57	That's an interesting look. I fully agree with Mr Schaap. This does not call the Chamber a kind of anarchy in dairy country but the Secretary of State. It received a unanimous motion calling on the Chamber to adopt legislation as soon as possible. If in any case she chooses to ignore that desire of this house, then this house has only one way to pull the emergency brake. I expect that to happen in that case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u58	We can all be very grumpy about the Secretary of State. That's all perfect, fine. That's part of the game, too. I'm just pointing out the consequences. At the time of the strike, there is no AMvB and no settlement. Then we will have to wait and see when there is a law through both chambers and the rule of law has become effective.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u59	It's very important to be very precise. I'm not complaining at all about the Secretary of State. Let me start with that. It should also be clear that, when there is no AMvB, my commitment is to make an AMvB exist. The ideal means is to get the promise from the Secretary of State: I'm going to make a legal arrangement for this. When that promise comes, that AMvB will just stay alive. So if the Secretary of State carries out this house's wide-ranging desire, then that AMvB will just stay there. As soon as she doesn't want to, she's gonna put the case on edge and not me. I'm taking an advance on that, although I certainly don't want to accuse her of that. With that AMvB there is an extra emergency brake behind it. At the moment when there is no AMvB regulating the growth of dairy farming, there is still the phosphate ceiling, which we will soon break through. Then the government is also obliged to intervene. Mr. Chairman. At present, Dutch dairy farmers produce more than 12 billion kilos of milk, nearly 57 million kilos of manure and 14.4 billion kilos of greenhouse gases. In return, they receive EUR 400 million a year. That's got to hurt every right-minded liberal. Following the romantic image of a cow in the meadow organized the politically "ground-based dairy farming," but that ground-boundness appears to be a dead letter. The land may be far from the farm, even in Germany or Belgium, so that control of manure disposal becomes virtually impossible. That control was already barely there, according to insiders from the sector, 30% to 40% of manure is already being processed fraudulently. It is unclear how the Secretary of State intends to tighten that control with an undressed NVWA. Perhaps I could give a recent example of how things are going wrong with the control. At the beginning of April, a witness saw a cattle farmer in the north of the Netherlands with suspicious manure runaways. Large dung trucks drove off and on to a relatively small piece of land to drive out a lot of manure, more than was justified, so was with a trained eye noticeable. Following the call made by the Secretary of State during the manure debate to report abuses, this concerned and conscientious citizen reported this incident to the NVWA. A red-handed act must be easy to act on, you'd think. That's what the gentleman at the call center saw differently. The NVWA's call centre is located in Limburg, also for the people calling from Friesland. That's a long way from the crime scene, North Frisian. That gentleman said he'd pass it on to the inspector who's about the North Netherlands. But if the reporter wanted immediate action, maybe it was an idea that he called the environmental police. No, the NVWA couldn't do that on its own. So it's up to the reporter to do it himself. The citizen in question called the environmental police. He didn't see anything in the report at first. Having noted everything advised that at the end of the conversation to call the NVWA because it is actually about that. The citizen has received the number of his report from the NVWA and has called twice. We are now three weeks later: nothing has been done with the notification. There's a registration number for that report. If the Secretary of State appreciates it and wants to treat it confidentially, I'd be happy to pass it on to her. It is remarkable that no action has been taken so far and that in a sector which itself says that 30% to 40% of manure is being processed fraudulently. These are not incidents but clear signals that the Secretary of State makes promises about compliance and enforcement that are not yet being complied with or can be complied with in any way in the current occupation and scale of the violations. The manure processors are already full and then the manure tsunami from dairy farming still needs to be started. The aim of the dairy law was to achieve a regulated growth of dairy farming within set environmental limits; land-based growth to prevent manure surpluses from being eliminated through manure processing. During the last two years before the end of the quota, a group of dairy farmers have milked considerably more than their milk quota allowed. They took the superlevy to be paid for nicely. In this way, a phosphate position was taken before the time after the milk quota. That strategy will be double rewarded. The dairy law was still based on a phosphate reference date of the end of 2013, which legalised the additional phosphate position. This AMvB also legalises the overrun of 2014. From the point of view of justice within the sector, this is a bad thing. After all, the phosphate area which has been taken up against the rules can no longer be used for fair distribution among dairy farmers who have complied with the milk quota. Apparently, the superlevy wasn't high enough to keep all dairy farmers on the straight track. However, this is not a reason to extra reward the offenders by using November 2014 as a phosphate reference date. In no way shall it be verified whether, and if so, how much phosphate was produced above the usage standard in 2013 and 2014. It is possible that a dairy farmer is far above the standard of use and does not need to use extra land because he has implemented his expansion of production by November 2014, contrary to the rules. A similar colleague who has waited nicely and wants to expand in a similar way is forced to buy up land. That's not fair. In doing so, the cabinet creates legal inequality within the sector. It would have been fairer to fix the phosphate reference date on November 2012. For dairy farmers who exceeded the quota in 2013 and 2014, this does not cause any damage. After all, they have already enjoyed the financial benefit of enlargement. A farmer who now produces 20 kilos of phosphate per hectare too much can have the equivalent of half a cow per hectare processed without having to buy additional land. A farmer who produces 50 kilos of phosphate too much may process the equivalent of almost two cows without additional soil. A farmer who produces 100 kilos too much phosphate may process the phosphate of almost two and a half cows per hectare without the need to buy up land. The greater the breach of the phosphate standard, the more manure may be processed. The more the phosphate standard is exceeded, the less there is a need to "pay." In the case of soil density, however, it is not only a question of the manure being able to be disposed of on its own soil, but also of the feed from it as far as possible. The AMvB completely ignores this aspect and is therefore very imperfect. The AMvB doesn't say anything about grazing. However, grazing is closely linked to soil-boundness. Without soil, no cow in the meadow. The cow is now being asked for an even greater performance: the goal is to produce 20% more milk with 9% more cows. The fear that Mr Schaap has just expressed. A quarter of Dutch dairy cows have udder infections. More than half of them have leg problems. Recently it became known through the Health Service that the nipples of the udders are falling and that this phenomenon is increasing. The lifespan of cows remains on average three and a half lactation periods. The miserable circumstances of the cow remain at its best, but it has to give more milk. A cow who is unlucky enough to end up in a megastal knows one thing for sure: she's going to be locked up for life. She cannot go outside if she feels like it, as in the example of Mr Schaap. No, she's going to be in jail for life. The only time she goes outside is on her way to the slaughterhouse. Cows that graze in the meadow have fewer leg problems and fewer udder infections. They're healthier than stable cows and live longer. The milk they supply is of better quality. Furthermore, grazing contributes to the reduction of ammonia emissions. Legislation that aims at a regulated growth of dairy farming with a secure level of animal welfare within verifiable environmental limits should make grazing mandatory. The AMvB fails on all the above points. It must therefore be stopped or brought to a higher legal level. The industry first responded to the AMvB, but now there are serious concerns about the implementation of individual companies, there is little monitoring of the processing of phosphate and there is a good chance that the already massive evasion of the law will become much greater.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u60	I received two letters: one from the environment and one from LTO. Both letters urged the adoption of the AMvB because they, including the environmental organisations, were satisfied with this AMvB. Something special must have happened, if LTO suddenly does not support her own letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u61	I don't think it's true that LTO doesn't support her own letter. I think that Nature and the Environment, as the organization to which Mr Schaap refers, is no longer so supportive of that letter. Within the environmental movement, let us say, is thought within the framework of "better half an egg than an empty shell." I understand from both Nature & Environment and Environmental Defense that by now, if the Secretary of State were not prepared to come to legislation, she would welcome the interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u62	I received a clear letter, but no correction to that letter. I don't know what rumors are going on. I think we should simply rely on the scriptures that have come to us. From Nature & Environment, that's the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u63	Sure, but the last few days there's been a lot of movement. Since then, a new report has been issued by CLM. Perhaps Mr Schaap read that report, but perhaps he was abroad at the time. CLM comes to very different conclusions. However, these conclusions did not include Nature & Environment and Environmental Defense in their previous letters. They have now taken note of this and they are very shocked by it. With this AMvB, the effects of the milk and manure tsunami can only be adjusted afterwards, once the calf has drowned. We cannot allow that to happen, Mr President! This AMvB regulates and sanctions the growth that has been achieved, outside the rules, especially over the past two years. In the debate in the Lower House, the State Secretary himself admits that. She said that as a reference date November 2014 she chose not to be flooded by troubles. The Secretary of State says that the production on top of the milk quota was not a violation and therefore legal. That's a game of words. The fact is that for each kilogram of milk in addition to the quota, a levy of as much as €0.27 had to be paid. As non-binding as the Secretary of State wants it to appear, the quota agreements were not. However, this superlevy is accepted by the farmers and almost without any misunderstandings. After all, the milk price was high enough to cover that fine. This promises a little more for this year with regard to the excess of the phosphate reference. There is a fine of €11 on one kilo of phosphate too much produced. In turn, this means €0.05 per litre of milk from the over-keeping cow. That too is going to happen again. There are animal rights hanging over the market. However, animal rights should not be confused with animal rights. In this case, the right to keep animals is, for a better understanding, only the right to keep animals. So it is not about the rights of animals, it is about the rights of farmers. At the moment when these animal rights are hanging over the market, as a farmer, you better have those cows stuck in stables. The fine is therefore simply seen as an investment in the future. As the milk price is higher, the rules are more lapped up. In this way, this system ensures that the market does not set the environmental limits, but rather the political limits. It is better and also more effective to link any enlargement to land and to punish infringements not by fines, but by subtracting the excess produced in one year from authorised production in the following year. Farmers who still have a place are not affected by their enlargements. Why don't we just take care of it like this? But the groundless farmers are being held back. That is also very necessary, because it is they who have used up the phosphate space at a rapid pace over the last two years, at the expense of farmers who do feed their cattle. The AMvB claims to achieve a ground-bound growth. The Secretary of State speaks of own roughage production, milk production or animals per hectare, but these concepts fall short because they push the concept of land-basedness within the framework of the Fertilisers Act. All the reasons why any extension leading to excess of the phosphate reference should be allowed only if it is linked to land purchase. The Secretary of State assumes that the sector remains below the phosphate ceiling and can increase production by 20%. This magic trick should be made possible by the feed trail. By putting less phosphorus in the feed, phosphate production also decreases with the cow and thus the sector remains below the ceiling. The final figures for 2014 will only come later this year, but according to CBS calculations phosphate production increased to 82.4 million kilos in 2014. That is more than 2 million kilos below the ceiling for dairy farming of 84.9 million kilos. However, with an annual increase in phosphate production of more than 2 million kilos, it seems that the ceiling will be reached this year. Rabobank also assumes that. The role of the transport track is not only widely overestimated, the reduction of phosphorus in the feed affects the health of the livestock, and is therefore an attack on animal welfare, according to the project Cows & Opportunities. On the website of this project you can read the following: "Participation in Cows & Opportunities means together in search of the limits of the possibilities within the company. In order to reduce phosphate losses and increase the efficiency of phosphate, Richard, the farmer about whom the article is about, tried to limit P-supply within the feed track. P-poor feed in combination with single raw materials and low P-content by-products were the basis for this. The results in the calculations were excellent. However, in practice the cow turned against this approach and that resulted in all kinds of vague problems that could ultimately be related with reduced resistance of the livestock. Blood tests showed that the P supply was no longer adequate. Looking for the border and then finally going a little too far." It is clear who the opportunities are for in this example and who the problems are for. In other words: phosphate in the feed down, cows sick. In order to solve the livestock problem, this farmer has added phosphate to the feed. The fact that the Secretary of State calls on the Chamber not to stop the AMvB, because the law will not be ready in time and because Brussels will intervene irrevocably, is not really understandable. The amended law can easily be completed by January 1st. The manure law and the dairy law were chased by both chambers in a month or two. We can do that now, so the time argument is not convincing. The question is whether Brussels will intervene. Last month, RIVM announced: "The ammonia emissions over the period 1990 to 2013 have been recalculated: emissions over the whole series of years show about 15 kilotons per year higher than previously calculated." This means that emissions have exceeded the European Union's ceiling since 2010. The trend is falling, but still above the European standard. That standard will only be met in a number of years if everything goes well. Yet Europe has approved the derogation. So the European sword of Damocles isn't so bad. If this AMvB is to be stopped, it is, of course, necessary to announce immediately a moratorium on extensions in dairy farming. Otherwise, presorting for any animal rights will continue at an accelerated rate. Such a pass at the place does not create any disadvantage for dairy farming. The sector has already achieved almost half of projected growth by 2020. Is the Secretary of State prepared to settle by law on 1 January for which the AMvB has now only begun, and to link land-boundness to pasture? Is the Secretary of State prepared to tighten up supervision and enforcement and to stop small land-based farmers from being victims of cowboys with mega-businesses up to 1,000 cows standing in stables every year? I look forward to the answers with interest!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u64	Mr. Chairman. Under great pressure, both Chambers of the States General facilitated the entry into force of the Responsible Growth Act on 1 January 2015. Under real or non-real pressure of time from the EU in Brussels because, if the law were introduced later, the derogation in relation to excess production of phosphate could be jeopardised. We will never find out whether the Secretary of State has allowed himself to be frightened by real threats from Brussels and too quickly in front of the Commission. The impression that the PVV Group has received during the process of this legislation is that in the Netherlands fast, and perhaps too soon, is being admitted to the regulatory spirit from Brussels. The image of a sovereign Netherlands only in its name is once again pressing for this issue. As a country within the EU itself, it has long since become impossible to set the course; politicians who claim otherwise simply lie to themselves. The Secretary of State wrote on 29 March. give a brief explanation to the Presidents of the two Chambers on a number of issues and principles relating to the AMvB which will give details of the Act on responsible growth dairy farming which came into force on 1 January this year. This law lays down requirements for expansion plans for dairy farms, so that expansion does not conflict with the EU-Nitrate Directive. Although not a subject of debate today, I would like to make a brief reflection and relativising comment on one aspect of the Nitrate Directive. A publication of the Biogeosciences company of December 2012 argues, inter alia, that the effectiveness of the Nitrate Directive is difficult to compare between countries, because the measurement methods, such as the measurement depth and location of the measurement networks, are very different. Results on published nitrate concentrations, according to the article, say little about the success of the Nitrates Directive. Therefore, some reservations regarding interpretations of the measured results seem appropriate. Perhaps the Secretary of State may make a brief comment on this in her reply to the Chamber. According to the cabinet, land ownership is an important social issue. the basic condition for dairy farming in order to be able to continue to produce. Through the AMvB, the Responsible Growth Act aims to limit the possibility of growing soilless. The implementation of the soil-based growth is the introduction of a stable system whereby less intensive companies, i.e. with a low phosphorus surplus, have to compensate the least within the company. My group would like to hear from the Secretary of State on what this system is based on and what the underlying assumptions are which led to the above percentages and kilograms of phosphate surplus per hectare. A key aspect of the implementation of soil-based growth is, of course, control and enforcement. It is good to describe how it is to be completed, but an essential aspect of the implementation is also control and enforcement. I would therefore like to invite the Secretary of State to explain in detail in her reply the way in which the two aspects of the implementation of the ground-boundness I have already mentioned are addressed in the AMvB. Finally, I would like to make a brief comment on the subject of grazing. This subject has also been brought before me by several colleagues. Without wanting to become romantic, cows in the meadow are an inseparable feature of the Dutch landscape. As far as we are concerned, this must remain the case, despite the economic pressure to keep cows more and more stable. In its letter of 29 March last, the State Secretary states that its level of ambition for increasing the grazing area from 70% in 2013 to 80% in 2020. In her letter she also mentions a number of initiatives that should make this possible. The PVV Group believes that it is good to encourage grazing. A number of arguments for this have already been mentioned by previous speakers: animal welfare, cycle, soil orientation and so on. In my group's opinion, the level of ambition of the Secretary of State sounds quite non-committal. My group would prefer a somewhat harder framework of the desire to achieve at least 80% grazing. I would like to say to Mr Schaap: 80% grazing does not mean that 80% of their time is spent during the day. The farmer always has a choice when and at what temperature he does so. If cows feel less senang than 20°C, it is not necessarily necessary that these animals are hunted out. Given the number of hours and days on which the 80% grazing is distributed, it should not be a problem to be able to achieve that 80% within that standard. In our opinion, it is possible to meet that standard. This can be done by making resources available from the Empire. At the same time, it should be made clear to the parties in the Convenant Weidegang, for example, that 80% grazing as the level of ambition of the State Secretary is a lower target for 2020; the parties of the covenant in the chain should know that they are highly responsible and become responsible for the concrete measures leading to the 80% target, while the public authorities in the background play a mainly facilitating and advisory role in achieving that standard for grazing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u65	The PVV Group, like everyone else, supported the motion to turn the AMvB into a legal arrangement. Would Mr Van Beek also be in favour of including a definition of the concept of "groundboundness" in that legislation in such a way that landboundness and grazing are given a legal basis?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u66	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u67	Mr. Chairman. The study of the Agriculture Economic Institute, which was annexed to the letter of the State Secretary of 3 October 2014, has provided a clear insight. If the growth of dairy farming involves purely economic considerations, it will be mainly based on manure processing and hence landless. That's undesirable. The AMvB, which we have before us, regulates that the growth of dairy farming is ground-bound. In six months' time, an important social wish has been expressed, which is also an important wish of this Chamber. A vigorous approach, I think. The steering is also smart: especially intensive companies are faced with additional rules. This decision is a key element in the development of dairy farming in the Netherlands and an important step towards a circular economy. The members of the Labour Party's group are therefore very much in favour of this AMvB, all the more so because of its proven social support. We want to be satisfied with just a few questions. The housing of the AMvB on the soil-based growth dairy farming is the Fertiliserswet. However, landboundness serves far more than just the objectives set out in the Fertilisers Act; this point has already been raised by several colleagues. Groundboundness is also about the use of roughage and feed from one's own farm and roughage and feed from the immediate surroundings. Groundboundness is also about grazing, in order to promote animal health and welfare. Several times it has also been mentioned that it is also about grazing that is linked to nature and landscape values. Finally, soil density is also about lower ammonia emissions. In other words, land binding is more than using manure on own land. Does the Secretary of State share the view that soil density is more than the use of manure on own land? Is it necessary to legally anchor this broad meaning of ground boundness? Why has the Secretary of State not so far come up with such a proposal to give effect to the Rejection motion? Or is that still on the horizon? The second point concerns the financing of land-based links. The common agricultural policy is a significant public contribution to dairy farming. The question is whether these resources can be used to promote ground-boundness. If not, could it be the Secretary of State's commitment to the negotiations for the CAP programme for the next period, to use those resources to support that ground-basedness? I will come back to the Act responsible for the growth of dairy farming itself. Preliminary statistics from the Central Bureau of Statistics on manure production in 2014 indicate that manure production is moving towards the phosphate ceiling of 84.9 million kilos; the so-called feed track, which we discussed in December, is very important. Responsible growth results from a successful feed track carried out by the industry itself. Can the Secretary of State inform us about its progress? The December debate on the law also discussed appropriate legal measures to prevent the phosphate ceiling being exceeded. Given the development mentioned, the members of the Labour Party ask the State Secretary when we can look forward to these legal measures. We look forward to the Secretary of State's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u68	If I understand correctly, Senator Van Zandbrink has expressed his satisfaction with the AMvB. At the same time, he sees the threat of exceeding the ceiling. If you're in favour of the sector and the whole country, that's the last thing you want, even in terms of certainty, that Sheep brought forward and I totally agree with. Should we be so satisfied with the numbers recorded in the AMvB? Shouldn't we have a more forward-looking view of the ceiling and raise those numbers a little bit, even if it was just a little bit?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u69	Against exceeding the phosphate ceiling, there are other conceivable measures that are much more effective than simply linking them to ground-based growth. We have already talked about the feed trail in December and, as has been mentioned a few times this afternoon, we also have the animal rights story. These are effective measures around the phosphate ceiling. It is very doubtful whether such a tightening of the ground-boundness will make such a significant contribution to the non-crossing of the phosphate ceiling.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u70	I understand that. Well, that sounds great to me, but that's not the way forward. The point is that, because of the abolition of the milk quota, a law has been passed. There's an AMvB attached to that. This is what's in there now. The railroad and all the other things that Mr Van Zandbrink mentions are not ahead of us in this context, but we are faced with this rapidly rising ceiling. Mr Van Zandbrink may say that animal rights are better, but they are not ahead of us now. All we can do now is raise the numbers in the AMvB, unless Mr Van Zandbrink can move the Secretary of State to put something about animal rights in the same AMvB. He has my blessing. We have here today the power given to us by the Secretary of State on 17 December. She said: if you want to change the content of the AMvB together in a majority, that is a political fact and I will follow you, of course. We can do that now. We can now change the numbers together and we can put together in the AMvB that animal rights need to be put in place immediately, not because we are having a bad time with the sector, but because we have a good time with the sector. After all, we do not want the phosphate ceiling to get any closer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u71	Mr Reuten talks about 'what lies ahead' and 'now we have the opportunity'. Now the AMvB is ahead of land-based dairy farming. It's about groundboundness, and it serves different purposes. The phosphate ceiling is bound by the law. We have discussed this under the law. In my contribution, I took the liberty of falling back on that, taking that particular aspect out of it and saying that we in the Labour Party are also very concerned about that point. We are concerned not only with the environment, but also with the sector itself. The sector is therefore putting the derogation at risk. There are several reasons why it is a creepy matter that we are crawling towards the phosphate ceiling. There are reasons for that. 2014 was a very good year. Spring was three weeks earlier than we're going through this year. This led to higher phosphate use and increased phosphate emissions in 2014. Nevertheless, it remains an exciting issue for 2015. That is why, in addition to the AMvB's land-based growth, we thought it right to bring this aspect of the law back up again to show what we are all doing, namely for a healthy environment. That is why we have specifically cited this today. I am glad that Mr Reuten supports that. I am very interested to hear the answer from the Secretary of State on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u72	Do I understand that my colleague from the Labour Party believes that a system of animal rights should be introduced immediately when the phosphate ceiling is reached?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u73	We believe that appropriate measures should be put in place at that time. I agree. That may be animal rights, but let us not commit ourselves to one definition at the moment. It could be anything. "Animal rights" is in itself a definition that this Chamber is wondering about. We are talking about production rights for dairy farms; let us use that general term for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u74	You therefore believe that they should be introduced on a perimeter basis and not that we should wait another year?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u75	We believe that it is important, both for the environment and for our agreements with other countries in Europe that we should be able to introduce these regulations directly at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u76	There is tension between concerns about the phosphate ceiling and the ambition to produce more milk. The Secretary of State has submitted to us a number of times that we solve it with a very successful feed trail. Does Mr Van Zandbrink share my concern that the health of cows is seriously affected by that feed trail? Cows must have higher production with less and less quality feed. With a limited increase in the dairy herd, we think we can produce 20% more milk, literally milking the cows even more. Does Mr Van Zandbrink share the concern that it is an unstoppable way to keep cows in stables for the year up to 1,000 cows and to give them food that is not suitable for them, which makes them sick? Does he agree with me that this is not the way to go?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u77	My colleague addresses a subject in which I happen to have graduated. I studied cattle nutrition in Wageningen. It is a misconception that the feed track affects animal welfare or that it would lead to an increase in milk production. The main thing about the feed track is that the cow gets as much phosphate as it needs. At the moment, the cow is getting more phosphate than it needs, resulting in more emissions. If you put less in the front, less in the back. In short, that's the feed trail. That has nothing to do with animal welfare or with the pursuit of production. On the contrary, the animal gets exactly what is needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u78	If you are specialised in this, you will also have been familiar with the project Cows & Opportunities, which said that we did not have enough phosphate, phosphorus, in the feed and that makes the cows sick.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u79	Well, I don't know that conclusion of that project.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u80	Maybe it's good to know about that after all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u81	Thank you, gentlemen. I understood that Mr Thom de Graaf wanted to make a comment, but that does not seem to be the case. I understand that the Secretary of State is going to answer directly, but in that "direct" there is a time difference of ten to fifteen minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u82	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Members for their first-term input. I would like to answer their questions in four blocks. If you will allow me, I would like to begin with an introduction to the AMvB as it now stands. Then I immediately move on to the second block, about the pièce de résistance of this debate, namely the question: is there going to be a legislative proposal or not? That is something that concerns many Members. And how does that relate to the AMvB that is now ahead? The third block deals with the growth of dairy farming. In the fourth block I answer a number of questions about the content of the AMvB. Today we are talking about the AMvB about land-based growth. The framework for this is, as many have already recalled, the Law on responsible growth of dairy farming, which will apply from 1 January. I thank the Chamber for its support. On the basis of the law that has now entered into force, dairy farmers must justify the extension of their production within environmental limits laid down in the Nitrates Directive. Those conditions shall consist of allowing an increase in manure production expressed as phosphate, provided that it can be used on the soil belonging to the holding or processed as a whole, or a combination of those two. In the view of the Nitrates Directive, this ensured that the growth in dairy farming is not unbridled but justified. However, this law has also been dealt with in this Chamber and has shown that there are broader ambitions for a sustainable future of dairy farming. I share that, by the way. These ambitions are about land-boundness, grazing and animal welfare. Groundboundness is not a condition of the Nitrates Directive, but a social condition. Land-based dairy farmers can provide their own fodder to a significant extent, in the case of a farm plot of sufficient size, also have opportunities to feed their livestock, and of course also have outlets for the manure. It is my ambition, and indeed that of the sector, that dairy farming should retain and strengthen the land-based nature for the future. That is why completely groundless growth in dairy farming is an undesirable development, which is also emphasised in this debate today. For this reason, the AMvB also ensures that the expansion of dairy farming takes place at least partially ground-bound. The implementation of the AMvB was, of course, the subject of consultation with the representatives of the sector. One has to think about LTO Nederland, the NZO, the NajK and the NMV. We have also spoken with civil society organisations, namely Nature & Environment and Environmental Defense. It has just been recalled by Mr Schaap: at least the sector organisations and Nature & Environment have also sent this Chamber a letter in which they insist on the entry into force of the present AMvB. But that's not the end of the job. It was agreed that, firstly, discussions should be held on the development of the AMM in the context of the preparation of implementation, but, secondly, also on strengthening the formation of regional loops. Thirdly, we discussed how we can further stimulate the grazing. I shall return to all three points in a moment. How do we maintain and strengthen the ground-based growth with the present AMvB? Dairy farms which expand and therefore produce more phosphate must demonstrate that they have sufficient soil to use part of the additional phosphate within the holding. In order to determine how much land they really need, I make a distinction between more extensive and more intensive companies. The most intensive companies must have the most ground on equal enlargement. To fill that in, a staffed system is introduced, distinguishing between three categories based on the phosphate surplus per hectare. Holdings with a small surplus, i.e. less than 20 kilos of phosphate per hectare, are so extensive that they do not have to have additional land if phosphate production is increased. There were a lot of images about Dutch dairy farming here, but 75% of Dutch dairy farms fall into this category. So these are the extensive companies. Large holdings with a surplus of more than 50 kilos of phosphate per hectare should have sufficient land to allow 50% of the additional phosphate production to be placed within the holding. The intermediate category of holdings with a surplus of between 20 and 50 kilograms of phosphate per hectare should be able to place 25% of the additional phosphate on the farm by extension. I come now to the block on how does the AMvB relate to the request made earlier in this Chamber for a legislative proposal? Mr De Lange said: we had to deal with legislative proposals every time with steam and boiling water. Maybe I could say something about that. The law introducing the manure processing obligation was submitted to the Lower House on 2 July 2012. The House of Representatives accepted this law on 1 October 2013, i.e. more than a year later. It is true that the First Chamber was then very quick, for which thanks. On 17 December 2013, almost three months later, the First Chamber accepted that law. The submission to the House of Representatives on 30 June 2014 was of the Responsible Growth of Dairy Farming Act. The acceptance by the House of Representatives was on 25 November 2014. So that was almost five months later. And indeed, the First Chamber was again very fast, namely within a month, on December 16, 2014. Thank you very much again for that. I understand that the First Chamber says that it has always accepted a law very quickly, but the route preceding it has often taken much longer. That's not a reproach; it's just an explanation of how it went. It is, however, relevant to the question now before us with regard to the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u83	What happens in the House of Representatives is a matter for the House of Representatives. That's not up to us. We have no influence on that. I have argued that we as the First Chamber have been asked to deal with this bill in a raging hurry. For this reason, we had doubts about that at the time. Nevertheless, we have gone along with the government's wish. My big problem with the whole process is that I do not see that the government has since shown the same haste, speed and urgency to come up with legislation on this issue. I have made this very clear. That's the big problem. One party is in a hurry, but the other party, who is in a hurry, does not respond with the same urgency. I am particularly concerned about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u84	I'd like to take that image away anyway. In December of last year, the Chamber asked me to come with an AMvB. Mr De Lange has a point to make when he says that the AMvB should be there before 1 March. That didn't work; I admit that. However, it was not easy to achieve an AMvB that not only does what it has to do in terms of content, but can also be more widely accepted, not only politically but also in the various civil society organisations. I did my best to do that, so it became possible in the end that we both Chambers made a proposal on 29 March. I would now like to respond to the motion for a resolution and to the various Members who have asked for it. I would like to explain how I would like to deal with this and what my considerations have been in replying to the questions that have been asked so far, but I have not yet got to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u85	Following on from Mr De Lange's question, I must say that the Secretary of State made a promise at the interplay on 17 March to do her best to have the AMvB in the Chamber on 1 March. However, no consultations had been held with parties in the sector on 17 March. Then the question is justified why, contrary to the haste with which the bill had to be dealt with here, months have been needed in which there has still been no consultation with the sector. I thought those months could have been used for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u86	But in the end, the result also counts. Twelve days later, the Chamber received a proposal from me. I have to say that this has been more widely supported than Mr Koffeman might have thought. Not only the sector organisations have sent the letters to the Chamber, but also the Foundation Nature & Environment. Mr Koffeman is right that Milieudefensie, who asked CLM to conduct research, is in a different position. This has already been done from the outset. This proposal has never been supported, but that is because it really has a completely different view of the future of dairy farming. This is not about responsible growth, but more about shrinking. Moreover, that is an ideal image that fits in with the political proposal that Mr Koffeman would like to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u87	Absolutely, but that's not an answer to my question. On 17 March the Secretary of State had not yet had any consultation with the sector organisations. A few days later there will be an AMvB. So it seems to be possible in a few days. My question was: why did the Secretary of State have to take months of preparation before consulting with these sectors? Couldn't that have just happened in January?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u88	No, because I do not think it would have been possible to come up with a proposal that is so widely supported.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u89	Can the Secretary of State indicate what has happened in the months in which no consultation with the sectors has taken place and which apparently needed to mature the proposal in order to achieve broad acceptance?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u90	I can't. Of course, I used these months to do so, not only to come up with a good proposal in terms of content, but also to explore the consequences of such a proposal. I think everyone understands that what is now before us is very far-reaching. Mr Terpstra said it most clearly: there are still many opportunities for dairy farming, including on the world market. However, we all understand that there are limits to growth. It can't be unbridled. So you will have to come up with a proposal that is ultimately proportionate and can count on social and political support. That has not been an easy task on a file that has so many different interests in it. However, I am pleased that it has finally been possible to come to the Chamber with this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u91	Really last time, Mr. Koffeman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u92	Can I conclude from the State Secretary's reply that, because of the political support that had to be created, consultation with the coalition partner in particular took more time than consultation with the sector?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u93	I am not making any statements about that. I note that there is a proposal in the Chamber that can count on broad support. Moreover, even after today, I have been able to see that the proposal in the House of Representatives has received a great deal of support. I hope and expect that this will also be the case in the First Chamber. Some Members have said that they would like the AMvB to be converted into a one-on-one bill. I think it is important to make it clear immediately: if a part of the Chamber wants to do so, the 'otherwise we encounter the AMvB' hangs a bit above 'I do not want to be the one looking for confrontation at that point. I think it's important to say that. In the end, it is my concern that the sector should be guaranteed quickly. If the Chamber says that there must be a legislative proposal, as laid down in Mr Reuten's motion, I will do so. Period. I don't want to have a discussion with the Chamber about that. However, I will be sharing my thoughts and the points on which we will devote our energy with Members in a moment. I would like to clarify two points. The motion called for a one-to-one transposition of the AMvB into a law. However, several Members present suggest that I should come up with something else. I won't. I cannot come up with a proposal other than the outcome of the political debate in the Second and First Chambers. That would also be crazy, because why would I come up with a different bill than the AMvB that I hope will be accepted in both Chambers? Unfortunately, I must reject the idea that this could lead to a new and even richer discussion of the substance. So if I come up with a bill, that's a copy of what the Chamber accepts today. That's the first thing. Secondly, there is a lot of discussion about the deadline. I think it is good to note that I cannot promise 100% that this bill was accepted on 1 January. If the Chamber adopts the AMvB, it is not necessarily necessary. The AMvB does its job until the law enters into force. I have, of course, looked very clearly at what I have to do if I were to come to work on a legislative proposal. First of all, I need to know what the outcome of the debates in the Second and First Chambers is in order to get that one-on-one transfer into a legislative proposal. That is what has been asked: convert the outcome of the AMvB one-on-one into a legislative proposal. So we have to establish that first. Next, such a bill must be passed by the Council of Ministers. Then it has to go to the Council of State for advice. That is also going to happen with the AMvB. Afterwards, the Lower House deals with it and then the Upper House. A new phenomenon has been added. That makes it different from last year's dairy law, for example. We are now dealing with the Advisory referendum Act. It ensures that in principle there is also an eight-week deadline for entry into force. Mrs Vos said that, in principle, Article 12 of the Advisory referendum Act allows a law to enter into force before a referendum could be held. However, this can only be done if the proposal cannot be postponed. But if the AMvB does its job, I don't think I could successfully invoke Article 12. So that's a new complication. Until recently, we have not foreseen this either, I say honestly. This means that additional weeks must indeed be taken into account in connection with the entry into force of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u94	I understand that the Secretary of State says: if you keep the AMvB whole, there is no urgent need for legislation and I cannot use Article 12. As a result, in the event of a breach, the Secretary of State would have the need for early legislation, which would be able to use Article 12.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u95	Yeah, but I don't want it to come to that. I would like to ask the Chamber urgently and urgently not to do that either. If the bill is not completed in time, we risk missing 2016. I can't offer guarantees because I'm too dependent on others in the process before I even get to the First Chamber. I'm gonna have to go through the whole legal process. I can't decide to what extent the Lower House wants to do its job. Do we want to table amendments? Would you perhaps like an extra round of letters? That's not up to me. Then the First Chamber runs the risk of missing the calendar year 2016 and then the Chamber ends empty-handed. Mr Terpstra has asked me who has an interest in this. Only those who do not consider land-based growth relevant. Mr Koffeman knows that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u96	We've all had state institutions in high school, so we all know how that procedure goes. It has to go to the House of Representatives first and then it does come here. I think we don't have to waste too much time with that. If the Secretary of State and the Cabinet consider that urgent action should be taken on the responsible land-based growth of dairy farming, then the Cabinet should have the opportunity to do so. In that case, I do not think it is appropriate to use the most elementary system of state. It is particularly important for the Secretary of State to state what she is willing to do and to what extent she estimates that she may or may not be able to invoke Article 12. That's what my question was about. Even if the Secretary of State says: assuming that I am making no more than a copy of the AMvB, I cannot do more, then it is true that the question is whether making a copy should take such a terrible amount of time and whether the Secretary of State, following the undertaking given to Mr Reuten if the majority of the Chamber wants the regulation to be enriched, should not say: who am I to not do so? Does the Secretary of State still comply with this undertaking, or does it now want to waive it and say that more than one copy is not in it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u97	It is precisely because I want to keep that promise that I will also have to wait for the end of this debate. I did see some frowning glances when I said that before I make a bill, I will first need to know what your Chamber said about it, just because I take it very seriously. That means I couldn't start until after today. Indeed, you do not need a state law lesson to know that the deadlines are very tight, if not almost impossible. Mr Reuten's motion states that the AMvB, and no more than that, has been asked to be converted into legislation. It didn't say: put in all kinds of other things. I also spoke in the House of Representatives about the implementation of Mr Reuten's motion. I admit that I will carry out that motion, but that means that I will table a bill that translates the AMvB's standards one-on-one. So I cannot commit myself to a term; I have just explained why. I will, of course, make every effort to get that bill to your Chamber quickly. There's no misunderstanding about that, but that's something other than a hard promise. I haven't been able to meet the promise of March 1st, except for a few days. That, of course, has given me some discussion again today, so I have become cautious in this too, as you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u98	The discussion AMvB or law was a purely constitutional discussion, not a substantive one. We then discussed whether you could include the definition of land and all the relevant accents separately from the law in the AMvB, or whether it should be in the law. The motion for a resolution on this subject has been unanimously accepted, which states that it belongs in the law. The Secretary of State undertakes to try to meet this AMvB one-on-one. It must also be done by the Lower House and by the Council of State's advice; this whole spectacle is part of it. That is a commitment at the level of state law. I fully understand that the Secretary of State will say that she is not going to add all kinds of band, because that is why the motion did not ask at all. So we're being served neatly in what we've asked for. I'm very satisfied.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u99	As a second signatory to the motion, I recall that it states that the essence of the General Measure of Governance and the significance of the fundamentality must be incorporated into the law. I'm just saying that because that's different from just the text of the AMvB. The Secretary of State doesn't even have to take over the entire AMvB. When it comes to speed, of course, I realize that the Secretary of State still has to go to the Council of State with this AMvB, but if she intends to include the AMvB in the law without any substantive changes, I expect that will happen the second time, i.e. when she has to ask for advice on the law, go very quickly. When I look at how urgent legislative proposals are generally dealt with here in both chambers, it should be possible to deal with a legislative proposal here in October. Then the Secretary of State will have those eight weeks before the referendum. So I am not asking for a guarantee from the Secretary of State, but I think that we all, the Secretary of State on behalf of the Government and we as Chamber, make a reasonable assessment that if we all do our best, the Secretary of State will, of course, be able to have the law in the Official Journal before 1 January.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u100	Again, it will not be a question of whether I am doing my best but also whether other players in this process are all willing to cooperate fully. This means, first of all, that, regardless of how quickly the Council of State can advise, it may be that this is happening quickly, but I am not sure that, for example, the treatment in the Lower House will in any case have to cost considerably less time than the law we have asked for here. Once again, that is not in my hand in advance, as Mr De Graaf well knows.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u101	I know that, but the House of Representatives has agreed by majority with the main line of this AMvB you have also discussed the Motion-Reuten with the House of Representatives before and if we agree here with the General Measure of Management, then we can assume that a bill that once again formally regulates this will have no objection in both Chambers?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u102	That's a comment, not a question. I'll have to wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u103	I have two points. Firstly, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for her commitment. It is an effort obligation. I think the Secretary of State has indicated that she will make an effort. The AMvB and the explanatory notes are there. I think the Ministry can braid that into the law within three weeks. I could almost do that myself. Then the Council of State wouldn't want to take three months for that, would it? So I think that should be in the Lower House before the summer recess. If the Secretary of State tries to do so, she has complied with that commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u104	Once again, I sincerely try to accommodate you in all reasonableness now in the execution of your motion. That motion didn't set a deadline for my knowledge. That's new; that's what you're bringing in today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u105	It said "at the same time." You are right that, strictly speaking, there was no time limit.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u106	If we're gonna do text exegesis, I'm gonna join you. So that means I have to translate the text of the AMvB and the law. That means I have to go through the Council of Ministers and then to the Council of State. Even in the event of an urgent request for advice, I do not expect it to start there that such a proposal for the summer is already in your Chamber. I'm not saying this out of unwillingness, but just to tell you how these things are going. So that means you're asking me for an effort. I have said that I am carrying out the motion as you have tabled. There was no time limit in that, so I will. You're saying today that you're actually looking for a deadline. Then let's see how far we get. But fortunately it is not necessary at the time the AMvB enters into force either. After all, the AMvB does his job. So if it succeeds, that's good; then it happens at one stroke, hopefully quickly, and then the House of Representatives must also cooperate. Otherwise, because it is a system that monitors calendar years, in the meantime we have the AMvB that does its job. However, I would like to make it quite clear here that there will be a whole new AMvB, with a completely different proposal from what is now coming out of the democratic process.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u107	Fine. I have every confidence that the Secretary of State and its officials will continue to do so as a matter of urgency. My second point is that the Secretary of State also promised on 17 December that if a majority of the Chamber wanted to amend the AMvB, it would do so. It could be that a percentage is being changed today. That doesn't affect the speed with which the process can be continued, I suppose.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u108	Well, that would be a complicating factor. Then we have to work on that again. Well, that doesn't change the speed with which I was supposed to come up with it. I hope, moreover, that the House will be able to discuss the matter in this way, and I hope that it will be able to convince the House that it should not want to amend the proposal as presented to it by the cabinet. However, it is up to the Chamber. That's what we've been saying. I am going to do my best to explain why I believe that the proposal as it stands today, which is also widely supported by society, is simply a sensible proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u109	I would like to join with previous speakers, including Mr De Graaf. He outlined that the Secretary of State already has a number of advantages. She has an AMvB, which can be converted into a bill. She says she does that one-on-one. That shouldn't be so hard. The Council of State can also look at it quickly, I think. I am honestly counting on us and on the House of Representatives to be prepared to deal with this proposal as a matter of urgency. We too, of course, have been prepared and engaged in this debate for a long time. My question to the Secretary of State is whether she is at least prepared to do everything she can to ensure that the process goes as quickly as possible. I am very keen that she should at least give that commitment to the Chamber. Is she also prepared to request that urgent procedure from the Council of State, so that, I hope, a bill can be submitted to the House of Representatives before the summer?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u110	I want to make my bet, of course. That's not what the discussion is about. The discussion is about the follow-up question, namely what commitment the other partners, players, intend to make in the whole dossier. That's where it gets harder for me to send. That's what I wanted to report. That's why I can't commit to a term. It is more complicated because of this new legislation on the consultative referendum. That's not because I want to. It is a fact and we simply have to take that into account. That's what I want to put down here. I do not want to have a discussion with the Chamber later in which she says that I had promised that it had to be sister or something and that it would happen before date x and then I have to come back and say that it did not succeed. That's why I'm trying very clearly to keep the expectations management down a little bit. However, that is not about my commitment. That's my assessment of the bears that are still on the way in the process.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u111	May I note, however, that the Secretary of State promises the Chamber that it will do its utmost to bring this bill into force as soon as possible, preferably before 1 January? I would add that I understand that the Secretary of State cannot break iron with his hands. No one has been held to the impossible. If she says that she has done her best, but that it has failed for certain reasons, then my group will certainly not make a point of doing so. We would like to hear the Secretary of State's promise that she will do her utmost.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u112	I have just said that to Mr Reuten. If Mrs Vos wants to hear it again, I will say it again: it will not be my effort.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u113	However, I would like to say a few words about the bear on the road called a consultative referendum. It's always being screened. It is said that if it is not sufficiently clear that there is urgency, it may be that it slows down and throws soot in the food for quick finishing. Then let's look at that problem from a different angle. Is it then possible, by stopping the AMvB today in the First Chamber, to bring that urgency to the situation? Does that mean the Secretary of State is able to finish it faster? If that is the case, I think that could be the preferred way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u114	If the Chamber were to do that, I would find it a blow in the face, including for the sector. This means that the clarity that we are now waiting for is withheld from the sector. You don't have to. I think we're trying to meet each other as much as we can right now. The Chamber has asked me to turn the AMvB into legislation. I said I'm gonna do that. I'm doing my best. Then I'm counting on her not to bump. If it does, it's gonna be really hard. Then what are we doing with each other? I come to the third block, the growth of dairy farming. Mr Terpstra has asked a number of times whether I can just say yes. I think I'm just gonna do that three times. Let's give it a try. Mr Terpstra asked me whether I share the view that global growth in the demand for dairy products is present and that Europe can contribute to this, especially the real agricultural countries, I would say the dairy farming countries, such as the Netherlands and Ireland. The law, says Mr Terpstra, regulates responsible growth, but not ground-boundness. He asked if it was true that it was taken care of by the AMvB. Yeah, that's right. With that law, we are doing what is necessary to comply with the Nitrates Directive and what the European Commission is asking of the Netherlands, namely to grow within the environmental objectives of the derogation decision. In this context, the manure processing obligation and the measures of the Fifth Programme of Action of the Nitrates Directive have also been taken. What lies ahead now is actually the social desire, widely borne, to allow that growth to be partly ground-bound. Mrs Vos has made some reflections on this. She asked whether we should not focus on sustainable production rather than on more, more, more production. Sustainable production is, of course, actually regulated by law. This is because it fulfils growth within the environmental boundary conditions. So it's not like that. I'll come back to the phosphate ceiling in a few minutes that that growth is unbridled, not even because of the phosphate ceiling. There is therefore also a hard limit to growth for environmental reasons. Yes, I say to Mr Terpstra, if the AMvB does not go ahead now, so it would be interrupted, that actually means that although the AMvB is no longer in force, the law is still there. That's a good thing. While this will continue to meet the conditions laid down by Brussels in relation to the Nitrates Directive and the derogation, the socially eager ground-based growth is, of course, off the table. Then you have nothing at that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u115	I would like to make a brief comment. The Secretary of State explains my request for sustainable production if we meet the environmental limits. I mean, that's wider. I am referring specifically to the transport of feed from the vicinity, to the disposal of manure in the vicinity, to a closed cycle and to animal welfare and animal welfare in the pasture. I really am referring to a broader concept than just environmental boundary conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u116	That's good. I shall go into those elements in a moment. I share some of the thoughts expressed by Mrs Vos. I will be happy to discuss with the Chamber the way in which I believe we can ensure that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u117	The Secretary of State will have to admit that environmental conditions are very limited. It is also clear to her that if we want to become the milkman of the world here because of the increase in world demand for dairy, for every litre of milk we produce more here 1.3 kilos of greenhouse gas will be emitted extra? We have not regulated this in legislation. It will also be clear to her that the cows that stand around the year are fed with soy that comes from former rainforest. Surely you can't say that there is a responsible growth in terms of secure environmental conditions?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u118	Perhaps it is a good thing to say about the latter fact that, as I know, dairy farming is one of the sectors that will be able to buy that soya responsibly. This is an important objective of the dairy sector in terms of sustainability. I sometimes have a rather exciting discussion about this objective with some other sectors. Furthermore, of course, we are also looking at sustainability. If you compare Dutch dairy farming with that sector in some other countries in the world in terms of sustainability, then it turns out that we are doing very well in the Netherlands. We are not doing bad either, I say to Mr Koffeman, on animal welfare. So our standards and standards are very high. Perhaps that is precisely why, and because there is also a product that is just of very good quality, there is a lot of demand for our milk powder, for example. In China we are sure that our milk powder is fine, while we are not always sure if our own powder is okay. These are, of course, ordinary things that also play a role in the world economy in which we live.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u119	"He who mirrores himself to another is softly mirrored," says an old Dutch proverb. There are always countries to think of where things are worse than here. However, it is true that we, from the Netherlands, have led the Chinese to believe that every Chinese schoolchild should drink half a litre of milk a day, while 85% or more of the Chinese are lactose intolerant. So it's a very bad advice. We have set up dairy farms in China for this. Surely it is a very crooked idea that in a small country like the Netherlands, with enormous environmental pressure, you should produce milk for a country like China, where you can't even digest that milk? You can say that there was no natural need for milk in China, but that we have driven it through trade missions and pilot farms. Surely you cannot insist that this is environmentally responsible or that this is a good development?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u120	In a society where prosperity is increasing, people become more needy for proteins and animal proteins, for example. This, of course, raises the very exciting question of how to organise it in a way that is responsible for the environment and our world. That is a point that is quite rightly raised. It must be noted that the Netherlands is a country which, from an environmental point of view, but also in terms of animal welfare, is perhaps best able to answer some of these major societal questions. It would be harsh if we were not allowed to play our part. Can production take place unbridled in the Netherlands? No, definitely not. Do dairy farms have to industrialise? Please don't. I think we all agree on that. So the question is not only whether there is more production going to China, but also whether we can use our knowledge of this area to shape the country's production responsibly. Many of these trade missions, I would say to Mr Koffeman, are not about sending products from here to there, but about contributing, with our knowledge and technology, to setting up production elsewhere. And that production will take place. The question is not whether this production will take place, but above all how and under what conditions it will take place. Now let's all focus on finding the right solutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u121	Finally, Mr Koffeman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u122	In my view, this completely ignores the first conclusion of the Van Dooren Committee's report, which examined the future of Dutch livestock farming. It says that if the Dutch consumption pattern is taken over by the rest of the world, we need four globes, and there are none. So if we go to China, or Ukraine or Belarus, to export our production methods, our megasthals and our battery stores, there will be a situation that is already happening. Our batteries are now in Belarus, and the Dutch poultry farmers cannot compete against them, because there are demands here and not there. In this way, therefore, we are trying to bring about the destruction of our own agricultural industry. I think it is completely irresponsible for the Secretary of State to make it appear that it is a fact that more animal protein will be consumed, whether you like it or not, and that we would not be able to play a role in it. With the same right, you could say that more greenhouse gases will be emitted. Yeah, sure; we'll have to do something about that if we're gonna stop global warming. We can't take things like that as a given.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u123	I'm the last person who would want to take this as a given. I didn't say that at all. I have just said that we will have to use our innovation and our knowledge of sustainability to prevent the accumulation of these four orbs, which are indeed not there, from happening. That's what I'm saying; I'm not saying anything else. I think it would be wise if we did not push each other into a view that we do not have. I certainly don't have that view. I come to the growth of dairy farming. Mrs Vos says that there would be a 20% increase in the number of cows. That's not true. According to the PBL study for 2020, this is a 20% increase in milk production achieved by 9% more animals, provided that the feed track is also picked up. Therefore, no additional phosphate should be involved. Of course, this must be done within the framework of the Nitrates Directive. Mrs Vos and others have also talked about what happens once we reach the national production ceiling, the phosphate ceiling. That was one of the reasons why I would have liked to spare my scarce legal powers. We must indeed prepare ourselves for this. This means that we have begun to prepare a system of animal rights for dairy cows. That's what I reported to the House of Representatives. That is what we started because we need to be able to intervene quickly if we need to. So I agree with everyone who has said something about this. Would I like us to intervene? No. Here again: please don't. I sincerely hope it doesn't have to come to that. The CBS reports annually on manure production, i.e. nitrogen and phosphate. This is done by the CBS on the basis of data on the average number of animals kept and on the basis of data on the composition of the feed. We don't get those numbers every month. This applies both to the figures on the number of animals and to the figures on the composition of the feed. The final data on manure production for the year 2014 will actually only come this autumn. However, if the phosphate production ceiling is exceeded, I am going to intervene. I also said in the House of Representatives that I intend to introduce animal rights. We want to have a debate on this with me. They also want to debate whether there would be alternatives. I have also mentioned an alternative, namely the transport trail. Mr Van Zandbrink, who knows a lot more about this than I do, has rightly pointed this out. However, that is something that must be put to maximum use. Should a system of animal rights be necessary, the question is how that system of animal rights might be a better term for the introduction of production rights and whether this should be linked to land-basedness. Mr Schaap spoke about this. However, I think it is too early to talk about this now. So I don't want to do that. However, I do need the people to work with me on that. I was asked in the written round what I am working on when it comes to legislative issues. That is why, in the written answer to that question, I indicated that I would have liked to have put my energy into it undivided. Now we have to do two things at once, but we do, I just promised.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u124	Governing is forward-looking. That is why I think it is very good that the Secretary of State is preparing a bill on animal rights in case we hit that phosphate ceiling. However, I do not understand one thing very well in this regard. There's a threat we're gonna hit that phosphate ceiling. Why is the bar in the AMvB not set a little higher and why is it not chosen for higher percentages? If you raise the bar in the AMvB, you reach that ceiling less quickly. I just don't understand this. I would therefore like the Secretary of State to explain that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u125	We have, of course, also looked at the AMvB for a proposal which has some form of proportionality. What are we asking for investments? What impact could such an investment have on adjacent sectors? Land is very scarce in the Netherlands, as Mr Reuten knows. The price of land is already rising rapidly. This has implications not only for dairy farming but also for farmers. That is why we have been looking for a proposal which also takes account of this problem. At the same time, people who have a lot of investment power, even if they were only allowed to grow in land, are going to do so. So the question of whether the phosphate ceiling is reached is not only dependent on this AMvB. In fact, the legislation does not regulate this at individual company level. If that were possible, it would have been an alternative, but it is not yet possible. We do know that the transport track can be used very effectively. We also know that the milk price has a major impact on the quantity produced. The coherence of all these factors will ultimately determine whether or not we are approaching that phosphate ceiling. There's a lot to be done to prevent that. This is largely in the hands of the sector itself. So it has really been a broader consideration, I say in response to Mr Reuten's questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u126	The Secretary of State is therefore preparing a system of animal rights, if necessary. That's just how I understood her. Does it intend to allow this system to enter into force immediately as soon as that ceiling is reached?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u127	Here too, we will work with a reference. I have always said that we must avoid anticipating behavior. I do not think it is wise to make too many statements now about how it will work. That is what we are dealing with now, also internally. I will, of course, have a discussion with the House of Representatives in May on what to do when the phosphate ceiling comes into sight and what potential alternatives there are. After all, it is clear that no one is waiting for this, not even because it is asking for investments that can be better used in land, a better stable system or the promotion of grazing. I'm just mentioning a few things that make us all more excited.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u128	I fully agree with the Secretary of State, but that is why it can have an enormous effect once it has completed that system. Then everyone knows there's no escape. Is the Secretary of State prepared to consider whether, in such a system, it is possible to tackle the farms which have the least soil but which have a large number of animals, the least land-based farms, in a more robust way and to exploit animal rights there first? This should not be at the expense of the more extensive companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u129	I understand. I also recognise this debate, but it is also very complicated to avoid it. That's one of the reasons why I would look up to the introduction of such a system. It is almost impossible to take very explicit account of this without getting caught up in a great legal problem. In addition, we are still carrying out processes to date on previous introductions of systems such as animal rights, production rights, in other sectors. This is a matter of years of follow-up. Please let us try to avoid it being necessary, but Mrs Vos is right to say that I am not going to wait until that happens. We're on the move. I think we should know that, too. Then I come to the progress of the feed trail. We expect new figures in the second half of May, I say to Mr Van Zandbrink. The CBS will be able to rely on the preliminary feed figures. They will not be final until the autumn. Then I come to my last block: the contents of the AMvB. There's a bunch of questions about that. I'm gonna try to answer them in fast-track. Mr Van Zandbrink has asked whether soil binding is more than using manure on his own land. That is what I agree with him and with other Members who have talked about elements such as production of their own roughage and grazing. The framework of the Fertilisers Act is indeed narrower. In doing so, we are fulfilling the obligations laid down in the Nitrates Directive. However, the legal anchoring of pastures, which Mr Van Beek and others talked about, also has a number of significant disadvantages. The main disadvantage is that it immediately destroys the earning model of the farmers who are working with it. After all, there is no reason for the dairy industry to pay up on pasture milk when there is a legal obligation to pasture and everyone has to do it anyway. That is an important argument. There is a lot of talk about the income model of the agricultural sector, also across the street. I am also often accused of not looking at it enough. I think this is an important argument. The second argument is proportionality. The question is, also legally, whether you can legally force those who do not now have a plot and who will not be able to acquire one for all kinds of reasons, to proceed to pasture. That's not gonna be easy. For this reason, the inclusion of that element in the law does not necessarily produce the effect you would like. Should we then accept the status quo? No, I say heartily. My ambition is not just an ambition. I'm one of the partners of the Covenant Weidegang. I've heard of one of the 62. My answer is: yes, but not just any. I'm gonna go for that. I know that this is also seen in the sector itself as a tremendous ambition. I put her down because I really think we need to make progress. That will take a great deal, but we will do so as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u130	I think it is a wonderful argument when the Secretary of State says that if I call for legislation to link land-boundness and grazing, then it is at the expense of farmers' earning model. I have every confidence, she says, immediately thereafter, that my ambition of 80% grazing will be achieved through self-regulation. If you do not regulate it legally, it will have to be self-regulation. That's a bridge too far for me and I think many in this house. The argument of not legally anchoring pastures in the sense of 'if we regulate it, then the sector itself does not do it anymore' could be valid for a lot of measures. That earning model can take many other forms. That's not so bad right now. An average dairy farm receives €25,000 a year. You might ask yourself, why is that? But the thought that you would lose the little bit you get extra for milk in the meadow and then you would have to depend on it, if it became a legal arrangement, would be too wondrous a thought. In order to make that plausible, the Secretary of State should give a little more explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u131	The fact that Mr Koffeman calls them 'a little' indicates exactly the essence of the problem. I am sorry to take advantage of you in my speech, but I have to say to him that I might be among the cows a lot. I have to deny that, but I'm a lot among dairy farmers. Mr Koffeman should discuss with them the significance of these increases and their importance for their business case. They are much more important than Mr Koffeman is suggesting.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u132	Certainly, that is a nice explanation, but that does not mean that the desirability of legislation should allow for a combination of soil and grazing. There are a thousand other ways of stimulating industry, such as giving farmers money to treat their animals better. Great. It is wonderful if the government wants to encourage this, but it should not stand in the way of legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u133	That is what we think differently, and that is what we can do. Mr Van Zandbrink's question was whether the common agricultural policy could be used to promote land-based cohesion. The income support in the current CAP is paid in the form of a hectare premium for eligible agricultural land. Cattle farmers do not receive any allowances for land under the stable, but they do for the pasture. Land-based dairy farmers are thus in favour of other dairy farmers. The commitment to the negotiations on the coming programme is now being prepared. It is still too early to anticipate that, but we will undoubtedly discuss this at some point. Then I was asked why I chose the AMvB for the reference year 2014 and not for the phosphate reference, which are two very different things. Mrs Fox and others spoke about this. Asked if I was not willing to take 2013 as a reference year. The year 2013 shall be the reference year for the law. From that moment on, the law requires you to account for your growth. Contrary to Mr Koffeman's assertion, it is not the case that the growth that has taken place since 2013 is not regulated in one way or another. It is true that at the AMvB we looked very closely at what is now reasonable. From what point do you have to ask to justify this growth not only through manure processing or soil binding as a free choice, but also through land? We chose 7 November 2014 because we only made sure from that moment on, including for the entrepreneurs, that there would be an additional condition for the whole story. Before that date, companies could choose to go fully for the growth, for 100%, for manure treatment. Choosing 2013 as a reference year would result in many problems. That is not because these people do not justify their growth, but because they account for it, for example, through manure treatment and not necessarily, in advance, through land. To Mr Koffeman, I say that quota overruns are not against the rules. The dairy farmers have chosen to pay a levy. Depending on the milk price, that was lucrative for some. So it was not a fine, as is sometimes suggested in popular terms, but a levy. For the record: there is therefore no question of legalization of unauthorized action. Mrs Vos asked me whether I would not like to broaden the legal title of the term 'ground'. She means to say, "Don't expand it." That is not foreseen. Following on from her comments, I can say that I am going to work with the sector in a project on how to better close the regional cycle. How, for example, can we better stimulate the production of roughage in the regional cycle? How can we ensure that cooperation with farmers is maintained? How can we support each other in this area? There is still a need for a number of things to be done. But that is something other than broadening the definition of "ground." It is up to the entrepreneurs themselves to determine how much land they have in use and to adapt it to their own needs for roughage. That is not a requirement from the purposes of the Fertilisers Act. However, the measures in the present AMvB are going towards a situation in which companies justify part of their expansion by taking additional land into their own use. Eventually, this also contributes to the strengthening of the ground-bound character. Mr Schaap asked me about the troubles. I have just said something about this. We have, of course, tried to avoid some of it in advance. That's important. In addition, within the AMvB we have also clearly described the scope of the problem facility. It monitors farms that have invested in 100% manure treatment before 7 November. After all, these are entrepreneurs who have made an investment which they now have to find that some of them would have had to do in land. You can then grant an exemption. Investments in stables are not covered by the bottleneck provision and therefore there is no provision for compensation for this. After all, dairy farmers can expand their production as long as they meet the requirements of the law and the AMvB. Mr Koffeman does not think it fair that companies that have grown before should not buy land and a farmer that is now expanding should. Indeed, the AMvB does not control whether dairy farmers have grown sooner or later, but in the way they have. Companies that were and have remained extensive do not have to deal with further conditions, but intensive companies do. Mr. Van Beek asked why we came to that stall. The threshold of 20 kilos has been explicitly introduced to keep a group of companies outside the AMvB, which we all believe should be taxed as little as possible with additional regulation. You can grow up to 20 kilos without having to deal with the AMvB's regulations. Only then, as you intensify, will there be an obligation to buy more land. Mr Reuten has put on the table an alternative proposal. He asked me if I was prepared to accept that proposal. The process as I have done makes it clear that I want to stick to my own proposal. It is a balanced proposal in the sense that, because of the standard chosen, the pressure on those companies is the greatest that it must feel the hardest. Of course, you can always have a political or social discussion with each other about whether you should not turn on certain buttons more or less. However, I have made this proposal in close consultation with the sector and I have had the Nature and Environment Foundation at the table to come to this conclusion. I've weighed this very widely. Given how far we are now, and in view of the proposal now before us, it is also justified to divide it up. The implementation has not come out of the sky; there has been a lot of consultation about it. I would therefore like this basis to be maintained. I've just been talking about the grazing. The covenant partners will meet on 16 June. Maybe it's good to say that. We will then have the first discussion on the way in which we continue to increase ambition. Then there was the question of whether there are no provisions that see grazing or feed production. That's right; we just talked about that. These are social conditions that I naturally want to give a place to, but not everything always runs through the trail of legislation. Mr Reuten had the question of whether I would take full responsibility if the AMvB were to say, in his words, 'to turn against the sector'. I think that we always have a joint responsibility for the proposals that lie ahead. The AMvB regulates that the growth in dairy farming takes place on land-based grounds. The most intensive companies must have the most additional land on equal expansion. That's what the sector and I share. The Court has also received the abovementioned letters on this subject. On a situation where we are shooting through the phosphate ceiling, we have had an extensive exchange of views. Then I will take full responsibility, because that is what is needed. I'd like to say that I'm not looking forward to it. I don't think it'd be nice if that had to happen. As I have said, I find manure fraud unacceptable. I am also working on strengthening enforcement, such as the independent sampling of manure transport, the obligation to link AGR-GPS to a solid manure transport vehicle and to make agreements with neighbouring countries. I would ask Mr Koffeman to give me the case in private; we will go after it immediately. It's not okay if he has to put it out here like that. I'd really like to act on that. Mr Van Beek asked how the groundboundness is controlled and maintained. In doing so, we agree with the monitoring of compliance with the law. This is done by a combination of RVO and NVWA. We know a lot about the composition of soil and phosphate production through the supply of data. We'll check for that. Mr Van Beek also asked a question about the accuracy of the networks in the framework of the Nitrates Directive. This is an important discussion which we will undoubtedly continue. The effectiveness of the Dutch manure policy has been monitored since 1992. This is a network of measurements carried out jointly by RIVM and the LEI. It aims to identify the impact and effectiveness of manure policy by measuring trends in water quality. These measurements take place on 450 farms. We have tested this network of measurements internationally and it has been accepted by the Commission. There is no better system: there is no alternative. At the moment, I do not see any reason to judge those results with restraint.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u134	Then we have arrived at the second term of office. But I understand from Mr Reuten that he would like a short suspension. He insists on that request. Five minutes tops. Mr Koffeman would like to ask a question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u135	Could that suspension take a little longer, like, ten minutes? We must take a far-reaching decision in this suspension, namely whether we are going to stop or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u136	Ten minutes max is 100% more than Mr Reuten had asked. When we talk about quotas, that's a lot. Agreed. At 6:15, we'll move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u137	Can we then allow the first deadline of the last subject, with scheduled speaking time of ten and six minutes, to take place for the sake of time?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u138	But the minister's gone to dinner now, so that's actually not a good time. The minister will be back between 6:30 and 7:45. That's why we have to do it this way. It's no different.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u139	Mr. Chairman. I did not attend part of the debate. I had already apologized to the Secretary of State but not yet to the spokesmen and the chairman. I hope, of course, that these apologies will be accepted. I've been perfectly replaced and updated by colleague Flierman. I welcome the Secretary of State's answers to our questions. We believe that the AMvB, as it stands, should now enter into force, partly in view of the letter from LTO and Nature & Environment, but even more in view of the State Secretary's commitment to implement the motion for a resolution in full. In the interrupting debate, the question was raised as to whether you can export milk powder and similar products to China. Now, in my opinion, there are countries in this world that may listen too much to the interests of Dutch industry, but I have never learned or read or seen that the current government of China is included. So I already have a certain confidence that we can export milk powder to China with peace of mind. We do not share the enthusiasm of some of the spokesmen for animal rights. At most we see it as part of the'seal massage' that the State Secretary applies to the whole sector and therefore to the Dutch people.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u140	I have two points. Mr Terpstra talks about 'animal rights'. That is a very different issue from animal rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u141	I'm talking about animal rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u142	To begin with, Mr Terpstra never read anywhere that the Netherlands would have an influence on China in the sense that Chinese schoolchildren would have to drink half a litre of milk a day? I will forward to Mr Terpstra the documents showing that the Dutch pilot farms in China have led the Chinese Prime Minister to take over this plea from the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u143	That only means that the Chinese Government has agreed to this. I've never had the idea that you could blame the current Chinese government for running on the LTO leash.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u144	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for her reply. It has done its utmost to at least deal with all aspects of the Chamber. Our main question is as follows. How exactly can we indicate the Secretary of State's commitment to carry out the motion for a resolution? I understand she's going to make that motion anyway. There will therefore be a legal basis; this AMvB is laid down in a law. I assume, as Mr De Graaf put it, that this means that the essence of the AMvB is incorporated into the law and that the meaning of ground boundness is incorporated into the law. Another question is: how quickly can the Secretary of State succeed in getting that law passed by both chambers? We still attach great importance to the fact that it is doing its utmost to bring that law into force on 1 January 2016. She said: I do not have that entirely in my power; I can promise it, but I do not go about it as a whole; there are all kinds of other parties who are going about it. I would therefore like to hear very clearly from the Secretary of State that we can count on her to do her utmost and do everything in her power to get to grips with the piece that lies with her herself as quickly as possible. This means that the Secretary of State now submits the bill to the Council of Ministers as soon as possible and asks the Council of State for an urgent opinion, so that we can agree with the Secretary of State that it can submit this bill to the House of Representatives on 1 September. All of her efforts must be directed towards achieving this. After that, of course, it is up to the House of Representatives and this Chamber to do their utmost to achieve their introduction on 1 January. Will the Secretary of State do her utmost and do everything in her power, so that at least on 1 September the House of Representatives can look forward to a legislative proposal? Then it's our move. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the fact that at least she has made such a clear start in the preparation of the animal rights system. I think that is extremely important. She has said that she cannot now mention all kinds of monthly figures, but that she can do so this autumn. I think it is very important that she is fully involved. She said she's not gonna wait. What I regret, however, is that the Secretary of State says: it is becoming very complicated to distinguish between more extensive and more intensive companies, especially given that it is already raising a stalemate when it comes to soil density. In fact, since it already divides companies into categories, I can imagine that it must be possible, for example, to deal last with farms with less than 20 kilograms of phosphate per hectare if animal rights are to be skimmed. I hope that the Secretary of State will make an effort to make some differentiation on this point so that companies which are already doing quite well from an extensive point of view do not suffer too much from this. The Secretary of State is not in favour of the legal obligation of grazing. I didn't think that was very convincing. With Mr Koffeman I would think: the milk price will have to rise a little. It seems to me that this should be a logical consequence of forcing cows into pasture. This will require better payments from dairy farmers. Of course there are also a number of legal problems, such as the situation of companies now and not having a house plot. These kinds of issues can all be resolved by the Secretary of State in a law. I think it is very important to bring this legal basis to the table. Finally, I am pleased that the Secretary of State has said that she is not going to broaden the legal title of the land that can count for the determination of the phosphate surplus, and that she is going to look at how we can stimulate more regional production and regional cycle. That seems to me to be extremely sensible and sensible. These were my second-term questions and I would again like to wait for an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u145	Mr. Chairman. I shall begin with a technical point on the report. In the first period, I asked whether it would be possible to include some references in the report. In any event, I would ask that the notes mentioned in those references be made available to the CIP and that the report make a reference to that fact. These are the notes "Milk livestock farming after the quoting; land-based and "industrial" farms of Wakker Animal and "Growing potential explored at AMvB land-based dairy farming" of Wageningen UR. I was advised to do so in second term. I'll take note of that. I would like to hear from the President whether that is indeed possible in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u146	I assume there is no objection to these documents being made available to the Central Information Point of the Chamber. (For inspection at the Central Information Point of the First Chamber of the States General.)
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u147	Then I shall return to the debate for which we have come. First of all, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the wide range of answers she has given. I also welcome the commitment that it will do its utmost to bring about legislation as soon as possible. However, I felt that the commitment was made with the necessary blows to the arm. I understand the Secretary of State can't turn the world into her own. We're not asking you to. However, I would appreciate it if she would make a slightly more vigorous commitment which makes it clear that there will be a legislative proposal before the House of Representatives on 1 September. In this respect, I would like to join Mr Vos. If this does not happen by 1 September, the Secretary of State will have a very difficult debate and will have to come up with some very good arguments as to why this might not have been possible. This seems to me to be of the utmost importance both for the sector and for the role played by the people's representatives in this whole matter. As the Secretary of State may have understood, several parties are not particularly fond of the idea of AMvBs if they are not needed. I am, of course, curious about the reaction of the Secretary of State in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u148	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for her reply, also given the full breadth and depth she has woven around it. I have listened with great agreement to what the Secretary of State has said about dairy farming and the agricultural sector in general. With regard to converting the AMvB into a law, if the Secretary of State says she is going to comply with the Reutsen motion, which has been adopted Chamberwide, that is fine with me. On this point, I do not agree with a number of colleagues. We made a purely constitutional commitment here: what should be in a law and what in an AMvB? We were of the opinion that the question of land should be guaranteed by law and that, on this basis, further implementation could of course be carried out in an AMvB. That is the essence for me. The Secretary of State has made it clear that it will act as a matter of urgency. I think that's enough. When the AMvB is in force, nothing changes when a part of that AMvB is then converted into law. After all, that AMvB has a power as if it were a law. In short, nothing changes when this happens a month earlier or a month later. The essence is that the sector knows what it is going to do for a longer term. That is the basis on which the AMvB must enter into force and certainly not be interrupted. The Secretary of State has said a few things about linking the grazing to the law. I am very pleased to hear that this is going to be a very complicated matter. I think that a few hundred extra people can be hired by the control authority, the NVWA, to check whether the livestock sector is properly complying with everything that is then laid down in the law to hunt those animals out of the country and which animals may be excluded from it because there is something with it, such as high quality. Please let the chain take the initiative itself. The income from grazing is a very powerful incentive for farmers to participate. A little social control and the moral obligation, which LTO supports, work infinitely better than to regulate this minutely in legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u149	Mr Schaap estimates that a few hundred extra men are needed to control grazing at the time it would be laid down in legislation. Does he agree with me that you would need a few hundred extra men to measure how much phosphate is emitted and run-off and how the manure is processed?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u150	If this is not done on a reference basis, it is a lost cause. You can't accurately measure that per cow or per company. That is technically impossible but also priceless. Nor do I see the power of comparison between one and the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u151	To make it very clear, when we reach phosphate ceilings and when we want to know where the manure is, which LTO says 30 to 40% is being processed fraudulently...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u152	That's not what LTO says.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u153	A LTO spokesperson says that, as you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u154	Never mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u155	Never mind? Is that the answer to my question? Then we'll be done soon!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u156	No, you were asking a question. The point is that you're wrongly quoting LTO, and I'm just gonna respond to that. But if there's no more question, we're done. Mr. Chairman. I am very much in favour of the idea of recycling, but we are talking about roughage and its combination with the cultivation of grass on arable farms, in order to carry it all around. Of course, many more feeds are used in livestock farming, including residual and waste products. Of course, you can't bring them into the loop. The same applies to the use of soya scrap. Mr Koffeman regularly suggests that the Dutch livestock sector consumes huge quantities of soya. However, no grain of soya goes into the cow. That's just soy scrap: processed soya from which the oil is extracted. Would you ever move on to administering the cows soy? If I may put it in plain peasant terms, then they shit ten meters backwards and health is extremely threatened. No farmer's gonna start that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u157	Perhaps I could advise Mr Schaap to look a little more closely at soya. Soy scrap is now the main product and no longer the residual or waste product. Soy scrap is the reason why soya is produced. Soy scrap is the reason why rainforests are being cut down. For Dutch cows.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u158	There are no rainforests being cut down to grow soy, but then we get an agronomic discussion. Once again, soya is grown for oil production. The remaining product is an exceptionally suitable feed. This also applies to many other residual products. I was concerned that all this was out of the loop. It has to stay that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u159	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for her reply and for her commitments regarding the Reuten motion. (33979, G). I agree with the tightening up requested by Senator Vos: 1 September the bill in the House of Representatives. I trust that the Secretary of State and its officials will do their best to do so. I trust they can. I would like the Secretary of State to keep us up to date on the progress of the process: legislative proposal ready, approval cabinet, Council of State and so on. Keep us informed, so I ask the Secretary of State. I don't think the contents of the AMvB are tight enough. We don't agree on that. That's okay. However, it is a pity and a pity, but there is no majority in favour of changing it. I think it would have been in the interests of the sector itself and in the interests of the country if the standards had been a little more stringent, but perhaps someday that will happen. Unfortunately, the phosphate ceiling may force us to introduce more stringent measures, including animal rights. I think it is wise for the Secretary of State to prepare legislation on this issue, should it be necessary to bring it into force. The Secretary of State has not corrected me for my imitations of the sound of satisfied and dissatisfied cows, so I suppose they were about right. But she can, of course, correct me immediately!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u160	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for her answers. It will have become clear to the Secretary of State from the contributions made so far in the second term that a substantial part of the Chamber is very committed to the commitment of its commitment to submit the law, based on the AMvB, to the Second Chamber on 1 September. It is very important that the Secretary of State makes that commitment here today. I would like to stress once again that we all very much wish that we do not have to stop the AMvB, but if the Secretary of State is not prepared to say that she will do her utmost to have the law in the Lower House on 1 September, I would like a third term today. In fact, until today at the latest, we have the opportunity to break the law. With regard to the findings of the Secretary of State on the phosphate ceiling, it is very important that we consider that it is not possible for extensive companies to expand within their possibilities when the phosphate ceiling is reached. Those possibilities will be stopped. This means that enlargement will no longer be possible for the well-intentioned farmers in dairy farming, thanks to their intensive colleagues. In that sense, therefore, it is absolutely not the case that the extensive farmers keep the space when the intensive farmers screw it up for them. There is no need to justify the fear of any problems surrounding unbridled expansion that could occur if the AMvB were no longer there. The price of milk is currently so low that major new enlargements are not included in the short term. In addition, there is still the phosphate ceiling. My group and a number of other groups think it is very important that there should be a link between soil bondage and grazing, in any way. It does not need to be poured into iron and concrete, but it is very important that it is regulated by law. That's why I'm filing the next motion. The President shall: Mr Koffeman, Mr Reuten, Mr De Lange, Mr Kox, Mr Vos and Mr Van Beek proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas research carried out by CLM shows that there is a need for more certainty in order to ensure responsible and land-based development of dairy farming;]] [[Whereas for this purpose a legal framework should be established in which groundboundness also has a clear relationship with grazing;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that such legislation is submitted to both chambers before 1 November 2015,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33979-Q]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u161	Mr. Chairman. We would like to thank the Secretary of State for her clear answer. Her involvement in the file was very clear. We also thank her for the commitments. Landboundness is indeed more than manure on own land. We see this worked out in the motion for a resolution, which is being transposed into a law. I'll get to the time limits. We are confident that the Secretary of State will do her best to do so. We have addressed her as a Chamber a few times over the past six months: are you going a little too fast, with steam and boiling water? And now we'd be worried that she's going too slow. We are confident that it will do so with great effort. We also support the Secretary of State with regard to grazing. There is currently no need for grazing measures. There is a strong incentive for grazing. Business is working very hard on it. That's what makes it true right now. There are negative price incentives for intensive farms and positive price incentives for farms that pasture. Those differences are considerable, I'll tell you. Meanwhile, the AMvB is doing its job. We very much appreciate the Secretary of State's commitment in response to our concern about the phosphate ceiling. It is preparing the rules on production rights. We hope it will not be necessary later, but it is good to clear that stick behind the door right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u162	Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much to the Chamber for its support. I must honestly say that I very much appreciate the support of so many political groups for the content of the AMvB. I will give my opinion on the motion tabled, but I think I can see that there is a generous majority for what is now before us. This is important to me, because in the end it is a question of clarifying the sector as quickly as possible. What are we going to do now? I think the sector not only deserves that, but also needs it. I also think that the content of the AMvB has an impact on how growth can take place. I must honestly say that in that light I am really surprised at the remark made by Senator Koffeman. He actually says: if that AMvB were to be stopped for any reason, it really doesn't mean anything at all, because we still have the phosphate ceiling; also the milk price is low at the moment, so what kind of problem do we have? If that is the reasoning, I am surprised at that, because what urgency is there in Mr Koffeman's...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u163	Mr Koffeman will answer that immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u164	...to ask for so much effort to turn this AMvB into a law? I will very much be happy to answer the question that Mrs Vos and Mr Reuten have asked here, and I hope that it will be a good thing to ask.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u165	I would very much like to take away the surprise with the Secretary of State. That is certainly not what I intended to say. I began my speech by saying that we would much rather not stop. Of course, there's a reason. We want something more than nothing. After that, I said that, in the unlikely event that there would be nothing for a period of time, there are already certainties in place. But I'm not saying, trust that and throw it all away. No, I don't think so. I have emphasized that we would much rather not stop; it is in the hands of the Secretary of State to persuade us to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u166	Then we're back to the sequel. For my part, I am trying to do everything I can to ensure that Mr Koffeman does not have to do so. I have already said in the first term: yes, I am going to make the motion-Reuten c.s. Run. That's the answer to Mrs. Vos, who asked: are you going to do that? Yes, I do. Mr Reuten was right to say that there was a tightening up today. We must also make that clear, because the famous/infamous motion of course did not set a date. We have to be honest with each other about that, too. It was delivered by the Chamber today. I have always said that I want to make an effort, but that there cannot be a result in advance. I agree with Mrs Vos: no one can be forced into the impossible. The Chamber is asking me for an effort, and I'm going to make it. I do, but that doesn't always control everything and everyone. That's the point. I'm doing the best I can, but I can't offer guarantees, even on intermediate dates. However, the Chamber has my word that I am doing my best. When I say that, we have to trust each other that it is. I have always tried to keep my word to the Chamber. If it didn't work out in a few weeks' time, so to speak, I've always explained why not. I'm trying to do that. I can't promise anything more than that. I can't offer any firm guarantees. I can only offer my efforts, and I would very much like to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u167	Does the Secretary of State say that she will do her utmost to submit a bill to the House of Representatives on 1 September?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u168	I'll do my best. That's what I've been saying. I can't guarantee it. I'm not the only one involved in this. Before a law is in the Chamber, there must be a whole process. Others also play a role in this. I am being thanked for that trust, but I too have my limitations. I'm really trying. I got it right. However, in the context of expectations, it must be clear that there is a proposal that is a one-to-one translation of what the outcome of this debate is. It's not gonna be more than that. That was not requested in the motion, by the way. I hope to accommodate an important part of the Chamber. In response to Mrs Vos, we do not yet have production rights. We are preparing ourselves, including with legal measures, for a situation where we would inevitably break through the national phosphate ceiling. However, it is too early to anticipate exactly what we are going to do. In the House of Representatives I have promised that we will, of course, discuss the question of what wisdom is. However, I have already explained that there are not so many flavors. That is precisely the problem of the situation that then arises. I would like to thank Mr Terpstra for his contribution, including up to and including the remark on the'seal massage'. I will not go into that further. I very much appreciate the support of his group for the proposal. I would have liked to have noticed that here. With regard to the comments made by Mrs Vos for the rest, I can say that we differ on the question of what you are doing in terms of pasture. I will also give my opinion on Mr Koffeman's motion later. I also think that grazing is very desirable. So we really don't have a difference of opinion about the goal, but we do have a difference of opinion about the effectiveness of the way you achieve it. As for the suggestion that there should always be a better milk price, I must say that you cannot determine that by law. I can't. The market plays its part in this. We also agree that regional loops should be encouraged. I hope that with my comments on the commitment I have also answered Mr De Lange's question. I'm not into muscular language. Yes, I am very precise. Because I want to show you that I want to go for something. That's what he's asking of me. That's what I'm delivering. It is therefore not an obligation to achieve results in advance, but an obligation to do so. It was not my intention to provoke him again now, but I apparently did so by mistake.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u169	I don't consider myself provoked. Incitation is also punishable. I note that the Secretary of State says she will do her best; I appreciate that. Of course, she speaks on behalf of the government as a whole. I therefore note that the government as a whole will do its utmost.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u170	It always is. I don't think that's new. By the way, we do that every day on every subject. Mr Schaap has said many things I very much agree with. I also very much agree with his last comment on roughage and cycle production, and that it also has its limitations. Mr Reuten has challenged me to speak on his ruling. Perhaps you'd like to do it one more time, Mr Reuten? That's how I get to choose. 'Cause I lost it for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u171	Just once. Let's leave it at that. Once serious and once cheerful, if I understand correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u172	Happy once: "muuh." No, I'm out of shape. A really cheerful cow does "moohohoh." No, that's too high again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u173	No, that's not him. I think the first time was better anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u174	"Muuh."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u175	I think you should practice at home some more. Now it's the Secretary of State's turn.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u176	No, Mr. Chairman, that's not how we got married.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u177	I did it again, so now the Secretary of State can correct it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u178	I'm not gonna correct it, because I want to...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u179	We're quitting now. Nor is it appropriate to include this in the report. The Secretary of State may conclude her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u180	I should like to conclude by saying that Mr Reuten's first interpretation was most truthful. For that "muuh" I'm going. I have thus come almost to the end of my speech, because of course I still have to respond to the motion. It calls on the government to ensure that legislation is introduced before 1 November in the field of grazing. I really can't do that. I have also explained in my speech why I would not choose to do so, to the great disappointment of Senator Koffeman, I think. I really must discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u181	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-6.u182	The vote on the motion will take place at the next meeting of the Chamber. That's May 19th.
