ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport among us. I greet everyone in the public gallery and anyone else who follows us otherwise. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). In addition, the use is not to interfere.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u2	Mr. Chairman. Last week I was installed as a member of the House of Representatives. Tonight I am here in the plenary room and may make my maiden speech. Maybe it has something to do with the fact that I was born during a violent November storm. A bit of dynamic is not strange to me. In fact, I kind of like that. It's nice to have my parents and sister in the public gallery tonight. My wife and our 6-year-old daughter are watching on television. Politics 24 instead of a flashy cartoon. Nevertheless, in my contribution today I can talk about colorful pictures and shiny decorations, in this case on or through the skin. Tattoos and piercings actually turn out to be a beautiful coat rack for things that drive me from the age of 15 to be active in politics. The interest in everything that is going on in society and politics began earlier. During conversations with my now deceased grandfather the news came from an old transistor radio. That was often a reason for him to make it clear in no uncertain terms that they had not understood it at all in The Hague. My grandfather has made a career as a mechanical engineer on the high seas. He's seen the world change in an exciting time. The picture was right: my grandfather had a tattooed anchor on his arm. In addition, he had some blue dots, which had been applied as a youthful experiment himself. My motto in politics is that, as far as I'm concerned, it's always about people. The development of every human being is central to me. The core concepts of liberalism of freedom, responsibility, tolerance, social justice and equality are therefore relevant values in order to achieve this. As Albert Einstein put it: "Everything that is truly grand and inspiring has been created by an individual who could work in freedom." We, as legislators, must therefore exercise the utmost care when we morter at the basis in which our freedoms are guaranteed. In the context of this bill, I also came across a striking statement by Thorbecke. As a former student of the Thorbecke Academy, I am sure you will forgive me if I repeat his words in this Parliament: "In so many cases, like the sensible doctor, who is not immediately at hand with a drink or powder, must let a social illness be cured by nature. The state lets society, where the law is not in default, help itself." People are very capable of solving challenges and problems themselves. A social problem is not solved by itself because politics is working on it. In fact, the increased rule reflex has often made many things very complex. The risk-free society does not exist, fortunately common sense and taking responsibility for itself. As far as I am concerned, therefore, we often seek the solution in confidence rather than more laws and rules based on mistrust. As alderman Strandzaals in Noordwijk, I have been involved in complex licensing processes for many years, if a major event was organised. Any risk had to be excluded in advance on paper. And what happened one day with nice weather, where at least 15,000 bathers took a spot on the beach? Nothing at all. The sun is shining and business goes on its own. There was no permit involved. In a society where common sense, self-responsibility and trust are central, it is of the utmost importance that the rules agreed with each other in a democratic way are enforced. That brings me to the bill before us tonight. This bill contains three elements which are important and which I would like to consider. In my view, the first element does not require much discussion. At the request of the public bodies Bonaire, Sint-Eustatius and Saba, the powers and authorisation are transferred to the administrative colleges there. As far as the VVD is concerned, that's fine. This lays down responsibilities at the place where they belong. In the second part of the legislative proposal, the prohibition of the application of tattoos or piercings is important if the arguments are to be considered properly. The VVD Group has reciprocated and weighed on this. I have noticed that this is a subject that speaks to the imagination of many people. That's not illogical, because it's an exciting theme, that you're close to your skin and sometimes you go through it. People who decide to place a tattoo or piercing will do so in many cases after having properly informed themselves. It's a choice, and it goes with thinking about the consequences. Of course, the tattooists and piercers have a great responsibility. They must ensure that this is done in a hygienic manner. Unfortunately, the figures provided show that there are complications in 2% of the tattoos and 6% of the piercings. This sometimes leads to unpleasant consequences that may threaten the health of a person or even of an entire group. Therefore, it is legally required to have a permit to work as a tattoo artist or as a piercer. The GGD provides this three-yearly licence after a hygiene check. The Dutch Food and War Authority has a task in monitoring and enforcement, to combat illegal practices. Well arranged, you'd say. However, the proposal is now before us to lay down in the law that advertising is prohibited for something that is already legal. A critical parliament should therefore ask what kind of problem we are actually solving. I believe that clarity is beneficial to good legislation; something must not be allowed or something must not be done. You can't tattoo or pierce without a license. To counter the messers in the market, you have to maintain this. Based on figures from 2011, it appears that around 5% of tattooists and piercers work without a license. The NVWA used about 1,980 hours last year to do something about that. So, to put it mildly, it's not a top priority. In order to gain more insight into enforcement practice, I have a few questions for the Minister: how does the NVWA work with other enforcement agencies, such as the Tax Administration or the municipalities, to check whether taxes are being paid and work in areas where it is allowed according to the zoning plan? How can a fine be awarded in very limited cases? To a large extent, it is now a warning. In one out of every five cases one gets a fine. Is the Minister keen to reverse this procedure? You get a standard fine, and in exceptional cases, a warning might be appropriate. What are the Minister's thoughts on the level of the fine? The Minister has already indicated that she considers €525 to be far too low. I'd like to hear if she still feels that way. Something that is already banned and for which there is a basis in the Warenwet does not become more illegal by banning it again. In my view, this proposal attempts to express the signals from enforcement practice, but a law remains a dead letter if you do nothing with it. Illegal practices can be combated by being on top of them and by working with all parties in the enforcement chain. For example, the signaling of an illegal tattoo or piercing shop via social media is no more than a reason to start the search. Surely these illegal practices cannot be allowed to disappear even further; not to mention the fact that word-of-mouth advertising continues? Additional legislation is not the solution for the VVD. That is why we will be tabling an amendment to this section. At present, it is not sufficiently clear why this proposal simplifies and makes enforcement more efficient, and how it has been balanced against other interests. The VVD believes that the current instruments should be fully deployed. The idea of a more thematic use of enforcement to combat illegal practices is important in this respect; in other words, the illegal messers are getting on their feet for a while. I ask the Minister what action is being taken on this issue in the coming years. Furthermore, an explicit appeal to the industry. Good tattoo and piercing shops, show you understand your profession and work hygienically. So do not commit to a ban, but rather to an intensification of advertising; in this case public advertising, or private advertising by the tattoo shops. Show as a sector that you want to inform the consumer about the fact that you are safe tattoo and piercing shops. Bet on that! This bill is aimed at aligning the system of penalties for goods legislation and labour law. This is a logical step, since the importance of safety for an employee of a company and the importance of the consumer in the core do not differ much from one another. It is a good thing that the fine ceiling is raised from €4,500 to €81,000. Furthermore, in the debate on food safety, the Minister indicated that she is working on a General Administrative Measure, which provides for the fine to be linked to percentages of turnover. This will allow the money obtained illegally to be skimmed. The VVD is in favour of this. I would ask the Minister to make it clear how this AMvB will be implemented, and to provide examples that show that illegal practice is heavily fined. Does the Minister consider that the fine ceiling is sufficiently strong in this way, so that a substantial fine can be imposed if necessary? Mr President, I shall conclude. It is a pleasure to be able to work for me in this Parliament on behalf of the VVD, thereby building a Netherlands in which everyone can develop and get the best out of their lives; with or without tattoo or piercing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u3	Thank you very much. I am suspending the sitting for a few moments, for a beautiful tradition in our home.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u4	Mr. Chairman. I have the honour to congratulate Mr De Lange on his maiden speech and to congratulate him on his parliamentary membership. I hope we'll cross swords for a long time. We do this regularly in this committee, all with verve. I look forward to it. Today we are talking about the Warenwet. First of all, we are talking about a ceiling to be imposed on administrative fines. It is also about the power of the Minister to designate selection bodies and to settle some issues through General Management Measures. Finally, there is a ban on the promotion and application of tattoos and piercings. Mr De Lange has dealt with this for a long time. First of all, I think about the fines. We know the food scandal with the salmonella-poisoned salmon from Foppen. This led to 23,000 sick people. At least four people died from it. There's been a lot of talk about this in this house last week. This scandal wasn't just an incident. There is more wrong in, in this case, the fishing sector. Many fish farms fall into an orange category. That means an "failure." For example, hygiene rules are not respected. There is insufficient attention to listeria contamination. This contamination is particularly serious for vulnerable people, the elderly, children and pregnant women. In the case of food poisoning with salmonella at Foppen, with four deaths, it took a long time before the infected salmon was recalled. Not only the company didn't act so fast, also the intermediaries didn't act quickly. Eventually, the company was fined €4,000, but it has a turnover of 125 million. Let me calculate: there must therefore be twenty minutes working for the fine it has been imposed. We're talking about at least four deaths here. It's not just a slap and a laugh, but it's actually very sad. Companies that endanger people's health must be tackled. In recent times, we have also seen that a meat trader from Oss has been sentenced to prison. There is, therefore, a possibility of variation, but we do not think that the Minister is using the appropriate system of fines and the maximum fine proposed today. It increases the maximum fine from €4,500 to €81,000. Of course, that's a huge leap. At this ceiling small businesses are taken much stronger than very large companies with millions of turnover. I think that's an undesirable effect of the bill. I think it's unintentional, too. That is why we have tabled an amendment. I will be very strict about the number of the amendment, because I know that the President likes it. It is the amendment in part No. 12. Oh, no, now I'm saying it wrong: it's the amendment in part No. 14. We propose to remove the maximum amount of €81,000 from the law and to introduce a maximum fine of 10% of turnover. In that way, infringements and fines can be brought into line and at least there is much less chance of a repetition of scandals. I would stress that this is not a strange or extreme proposal. In preparing this bill, it is not a daily cost for me to deal with the Warenwet, because I found a beautiful letter from Minister Kamp of Economic Affairs, about a year ago. He proposes that the Competition Act should now impose a maximum fine of €900,000 or 10% of turnover on the Authority's Consumer & Market, if that amount is higher. For example, if there is an infringement of the Personal Data Protection Act, one does not handle the personal data of people properly or does not report a data breach while one is aware of it..................................................................................................................................................................................... This also applies to criminal law. In criminal law it is also possible to impose a fine of 10% of turnover. That's what I'm arguing for. If, legally or legally, there is an objection to the amendment that I have made, perhaps the Minister can indicate how we can remove it. I propose that we harmonise it, where possible, so that it applies to the Competition Act, the Personal Data Protection Act and the Criminal Code. In fact, putting people's health at risk is also a serious offence. I wouldn't agree if the administrative penalties were lower than for violating people's privacy. We are right on top of that, and we must maintain that. They may be two different sizes, but I wouldn't approve of a lower sanction for putting people's health at risk than for violating privacy laws. I'd like to hear the Minister's opinion on that. In preparing this debate, I also had some questions about the cooperation between the Public Prosecutor and the Dutch Food and War Authority. The Minister and the Chamber have held several discussions on the cooperation of the Dutch Healthcare Authority, another supervisor in our country, the Health Care Inspectorate and the Public Prosecutor's Office. The question that arises is when you apply what criminal regime if there is an offence. Once an administrative fine has been issued, you can no longer prosecute criminally; we know that. In some situations, it is desirable to use criminal law. There are now provisions of this kind in the law: the deliberate endangerment of the health of others cannot be penalised by an administrative fine anyway. How exactly is cooperation arranged? I haven't been able to find any cooperation protocol between the NVWA and the D.A., but I haven't been looking very long. Can the Minister inform us of the exact manner in which this cooperation is conducted? Is there any need for a review? We have seen this with the Dutch Healthcare Authority and the Health Inspectorate. Today is not just about food, but also about tattoos and piercings. There are companies that, without the necessary license, apply tattoos and piercings and tempt people to have them apply them. So today is also about protecting people. Mr De Lange is right: there is already a licence requirement. It is strange, however, that you are allowed to sell goods that you are not allowed to sell. Mr De Lange asked whether there was sufficient capacity. There's 1.2 fte on an annual basis. Mr De Lange mentioned the number of hours. It's not that much, but I can't really judge whether that ratio takes more hours. I think it is an interesting idea for this sector to be properly inspected. I think it makes sense that you shouldn't advertise for a service you're not allowed to perform. So you can't hang a sign outside with the text "get a nice tattoo or piercing" if you're not allowed to apply that tattoo or piercing. We therefore support the Minister in this. In replying to questions put by the VVD Group, the Minister gave two arguments. We think it's very valid. Of course, you have to meet the hygiene requirements. Of course, you have to avoid infection risks associated with the application of tattoos and piercings. It would be crazy not to maintain the promotion of something you're not allowed to perform. We therefore support the Minister in this. However, I would like to endorse Mr De Lange's question: what is the priority of enforcement? How often exactly do these checks take place? How often has a fine been imposed? Are there any recidivists? Is there perhaps a chain that recurs more often? Does the 5% that makes tattoos and piercings regularly advertise without a license? That seems logical to me, but for the time being we agree with the Minister's wish to incorporate this into the law. We find it strange that there are strict requirements for the application of decorations to or in the skin close to the skin or in the skin, Mr De Lange said just as beautifully, but not for advertising for this. It's weird that you can promote it and advertise it if you can't run it. So I would like to have answered the question as to how it relates to enforcement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u5	Mr. Chairman. This bill is about multiple cases. On the one hand, it's about being able to fine advertising by tattooists who don't have a license. On the other hand, it is a significant increase in the amount of fines imposed by the NVWA from €4,500 per offense to €81,000 per offense. Let me start with that last one. In fact, the CDA was not at all pleased with the Minister's first proposal to increase the fines to €81,000, because she arranged a carte blanche for herself. The Council of State was also very critical of this for a reason. It was quite a step in one go. The comments of the Council of State, an important advisory body, were: better motivate and better framework in how you want to do that. In the meantime, the Minister has amended the bill twice in recent times, which has led to further conditions regarding the question of when the Minister may impose such a fine. The Minister states that there must be culpability. She calls that "a degree of culpability." The explanatory statement shall explain that there must be gross negligence or negligence. My question to the Minister is: when is there really serious guilt or negligence? Can she give us some examples? In order to clarify this point, I would like to ask another question: why does it include in the legislative proposal the term 'degree of culpability' and not the term 'great debt' or 'delay'? The Minister has amended this provision because she wants the NVWA to be able to enforce more quickly. In the answers I read a bit that criminal law on these points is actually a bit too viscous for this minister, but it is of course true that criminal law still has better safeguards than administrative law. That is why I ask the Minister to explain why the administrative route is preferable in these cases. How does it ensure that the same care is taken? In the future, if these higher fines are imposed, the choice must also be made between administrative or criminal procedures in the event of gross negligence or negligence. My specific question is then: when will that gross guilt or negligence stop and the NVWA will refer a case to the Public Prosecutor's Office? I would like to have a more detailed explanation of this with an example from practice. I also find Mrs Leijten's comment interesting in that context. She said that, now that a new criterion is being introduced and higher fines can be imposed in administrative law, you might also need to consider whether the NVWA and the Public Prosecutor's Office already have cooperation agreements to determine which way we are actually going to use: criminal or administrative. I think this issue has become even more concrete because last week, of course, we had a very spicy statement from the Public Prosecutor regarding the case in which horse meat was processed in other meat. In that case two and a half years were imposed, but perhaps under this new law it was chosen to impose a fine of €81,000 on that man. So I am actually saying to the Minister: I am pleased that it is framed, but it is a little more detailed and more detailed, so that we can also have a little more control over how things are going to work in practice. That is my request to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u6	I should like to make one more point. The NVWA is the Dutch Food and Waren Authority. After all, there are people who follow us home and they want to know what that means.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u7	Mr President, you are right. You're always very keen on that, too. It is indeed the Dutch Food and Service Authority. It's a good thing you said that. It controls and supervises such cases and can also impose fines. However, the Minister leaves a few things open in this context. It is still unclear what the minimum turnover is in which such a fine will be imposed. I would also like to be more clear about this. The Minister also states that the fine will become a certain percentage of the annual turnover. The CDA would like to know if we already know what percentage this is going to be. Because of the lack of clarity about the elaboration of the General Measure of Governance, the spicy commentary of the Council of State and the fact that there is yet another interface between criminal law and administrative law, we have tabled an amendment which leads to the AMvB being given a suspension procedure. This means that the House of Representatives will still have a chance to assess the AMvB before the Minister lets this AMvB enter into force. That amendment has part No. 16. I have seen that there are similarities between this amendment and the SP amendment. Mrs Leijten is doing something extra with her amendment, while we are keeping it somewhat more limited.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u8	I think Mrs Bruins Slot has come to the end of her fine block. I would like to put the following question to her. What does she think about releasing the maximum fine of €81,000, as we propose, or introducing the maximum of €810,000 or 10% of turnover, which would align the Warenwet with the Protection of Personal Data Act or just bring it under the Competition Act? Would it not be desirable to raise the maximum fine? This is a fine of €81,000 for a turnover of 125 million, as is the case with Foppen. Foppen is still not awake from that, while people are dying as a result of eating salmon poisoned with salmonella.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u9	The problem is of course very important, but I am still a little reluctant for three reasons. That is why it is also important to hear the Minister on this matter. Firstly, the Council of State was, of course, already quite critical of this bill. Secondly, according to the current system, you can impose that higher fine of €810,000 even within the administrative law. Because you can raise one step. Thirdly, I also sometimes see the disadvantage that if we impose fines so incredibly high in administrative law, we will never get to criminal law again, while criminal law also offers the opportunity to simply put people in prison, which people sometimes earn very much in these cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u10	Is Mrs. Leijten convinced?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u11	I have the article with me now. I didn't have that when I read my text. Article 32a (3) states the following. By way of derogation from paragraph 1, the offence shall not be punishable by an administrative fine if the intentional or reckless offence results in a direct danger to human health or safety or if a huge profit has been made in breach of the Warenwet. So I think there's still a coincidence. Anyway, we've asked the same questions about that. I am concerned that, of course, the maximum fine should not always be imposed. That's an ultimatum remedium for recidivists. It is not for nothing that I mentioned the fishing sector, where a lot of companies are still in orange code. Those companies do not actually apply the hygiene rules properly and therefore put vulnerable groups at risk. You would like to see higher fines imposed in those cases. Now $81,000 is just the limit. If the turnover is really high, we can get over it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u12	And now your question!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u13	Why does the CDA agree that a maximum of over €800,000 is used under the Protection of Personal Data Act, whereas this is not the case in the case of health protection?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u14	The question isn't quite right because... or let's say questions are always right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u15	A question is always good.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u16	Questions are always right. We have chosen to do so, but it is also good to hear from the Minister that you can already take the step of €810,000 from €810,000. It's in the system. So the question is whether you should change the law at that point. In addition, criminal law is much more passed by this law than by the legislation around the CBP. So I don't want to make it too easy for the government to always choose administrative law. That is why I am reluctant on this point. I am not making a final statement, but I still have some objections. I'm very curious to see how the Minister will react to this. Then we'll see how it goes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u17	Do I understand correctly that the CDA colleague says that it is a good thing that there is room within administrative law to raise a fine of €810,000? She says that this space is already there within the current legislation. I see she's looking a little desperate, so maybe she didn't mean to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u18	No, I'm just looking at Mrs. Dikkers nicely. I want to know if this is her question. We've done some reference work. The Minister always has good lawyers here. I think you can take a step if you're in a certain penalty regime. Then you can go one step higher to €810,000. Mrs Dikkers's amendment to item No. 15 to be in that category higher. Then I think you can go back to a category up there, but we need to see if that's the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u19	If that is not possible, it would perhaps be interesting for the CDA Group to go along with our amendment. This would mean making room in the law for a sixth category, in which the ceiling for fines is much higher than in the fifth category. Suppose the Minister says: no, it all fits into this law, because we can scale it up to eight tons. Then that's fine, but I don't think it is. If not, I hope the CDA Group will support us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u20	I'll take that as an incentive. Mr. Chairman. I am in need of another subject which is also part of the legislative proposal, namely the fight against illegal tattooists, the illegal home pickers. We don't talk about tattoos every week in the House of Representatives, but if you go into that, there's a whole world behind it. I knew one in three 20s had a tattoo. Over 30, one in four people has a tattoo. So you also want those tattoos to be carefully placed and there is no health risk. That is what I am saying to Mr De Lange. I would like to congratulate him on his fine kick-off in the House of Representatives. So it is a good point that the Minister says: we need to tackle those illegal home pickers, those tattooists harder. We are now in a very difficult situation, because we cannot do that properly. Like Mrs Leijten, I think the Minister's reasons are quite good. She says: we are trying to maintain it now, but we are actually in an impossible position, because it is difficult to prove it. She also says: we have now found a method in which we can maintain more effectively. Certain tattooists put tattoos that can cause serious damage, including to humans. I call, for example, a permanently mutilated body or an inflamed skin. Dirty needles are sometimes used that can cause scary diseases. If we can deal with those tattooists, we shouldn't forget that either. I believe that the Minister is taking a good step in this direction. Then we can use the government's efforts well. Illegal tattooists are gonna get a fine when they advertise. What does the Minister expect of this new opportunity? How much time and energy will the Dutch Food and War Authority have to deal with this within the possibilities it has? I am deliberately asking this question, because the Dutch Food and War Authority already has a lot on its plate. She's up against overload. That is why it is important that we be able to apply this properly and efficiently. I also see the Minister's change as a way of doing that. But of course there is another side. People always have a responsibility of their own. People themselves are responsible for making their choices well informed. I've been on the Internet for a while, too. If you make a comparison between buying a car and putting a tattoo on it, see that it's actually pretty lousy with the information people can get about getting a tattoo and about the risks. Striking movies, good comparisons, a site with an offer of them; it's all missing. The Minister writes in her answers that she is going to do a lot of work to put something better together with the industry. I found the website safe tattooenenpiercen.nl, but that was a rather matte site. I hope that this is not the site the Minister says: we now have the right information. I would like to encourage the Minister to do this better. How exactly does she see this information? I also came up with something else, and thought: I'm going to ask questions about it, because I noticed that it's very much alive. It concerns a certain trend in tattooing. There are people who want to get tattoos with ashes from a deceased family member. I can imagine that this is a very special way for people to keep their loved ones with them. However, I also noticed that very often the question is asked whether or not this is permitted. I find the communication of the Dutch Food and Consumer Authority and of the Minister a little confusing. It is not recommended and it is indicated that it is harmful. If things go wrong, the tattoo artist is responsible. My question to the Minister is whether this means that it is forbidden. From practice I hear that there are even well-known tattooists who put such tattoos. There are also general practitioners who say that people are not at all at risk when they do this, because it is all very small. You can see that people have a great need for this. If it turns out that there are risks, would it not be wise to consider how we can do this responsibly? I can see we're in some kind of twilight zone with this. Perhaps the Minister could make an effort to make sure that people who have such a desire are helped a little better to resolve the uncertainty that is there. I've discussed two sides of the bill that deal with different things. I'm curious to hear the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u21	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr De Lange. I am very much looking forward to his contributions, although we are on other committees and so I probably cannot cross swords with him very often. I am very pleased that he is among us and I wish him very much luck in this period. Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for the legislative process and the main thrust of the proposed legislative amendment. We welcome the extension of the investigation capabilities of the Dutch Food and Consumer Protection Authority, now that the promotion of the application of tattoos or piercings is banned. That seems to us to be a good thing. I look forward to the moment when my daughter has "I love mommy" tattooed on her arm, but that must of course happen to a renowned tattooist; you know that, Mr. Chairman. For our group, the most important issue today is the ceiling on fines. The Sinterklaasjournaal received a fine of €125,000 from the Media Commissioner for advertising its own sinterklaas wrapping paper. That paper was also obtained from the HEMA. The ACM has issued more than eight tonnes of fine for a violation of the "spame ban'. I was reminded by my colleague that I said "spam ban" the last time. I see him giggling in the back room. So I am now explicitly saying'spame ban'. I hope I don't get another reprimand from him. Fish processing company Foppen is ready with a few thousand euros, while "splashing" can cost eight tonnes. Mr President, that is not possible. We believe that this is not in proportion to each other. Neither does the Minister, and that is why she is announcing an increase in fines, to fines in the fifth category, as we read in the legislative proposal. The Labour Party agrees with the Council of State that fines should be proportionate. As far as we are concerned, they must also depend on the company's turnover. But it must be a deterrent effect. We have tabled an amendment to increase the fine ceiling. That can be found under item No. 15 (3375). Fines in the fifth category go up to €18,000, while there is legal scope for a sixth category of over eight tonnes. The PvdA would like this sixth category to be included in the Warenwet, so that it can actually be heavily fined. Again, the height depends on the company's turnover. We do not expect these fines to be imposed on a daily basis, but while we are talking about the level of fines, we would really find it a missed opportunity not to raise the fine ceiling to similar fines in other departments, as is the case with the ACM. The law gives room for a sixth category, so let's take that space. The Minister has indicated that he wishes to link the fines with those in the field of SZW. We would also very much like the fine ceiling to go up there, because there too there would be room for a sixth category. However, I also understand that we cannot deal with this law when it comes to dealing with it, so that is something that we will raise with other colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u22	In my view, the proposal of the PvdA and that of the SP actually touch on the same point. We want the fine to become more dependent on turnover. Where we completely abolish the penalty ceiling, the Labour Party says: it is in line with, among other things, the ACM and the Competition Act, in my opinion, it is a little higher there and with the Personal Data Protection Act, where it is at €810,000, as well as with the Economic Crimes Act. However, under the Personal Data Protection Act it is €810,000 or 10% of the annual turnover of the legal person. In the end, if we put our two amendments together, would that not be the best thing to do with the laws that have been tightened up in this Chamber? Wouldn't it be a good thing if we used this system in the decision on fines within the Wereenwet?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u23	That €810,000 was not made up by the various authorities. That is the space set out in the sixth category, as stated in our amendment. By law the space is arranged that you can go to a sixth category up to €810,000. We would like to follow that system. That makes sense, too. The Minister states in her amendment that she wants to go to the fifth category, which is €81,000. We want to move on to a category, to the sixth category. If that is in line with the SP amendment, it is very interesting for us. I'm very curious to hear what the Minister says about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u24	That 10% is an addition to that sixth category. That sixth category is €810,000 or 10% of turnover. This is also the case in the Competition Act and the ceiling has only been raised there. It is an appropriate supplement, because of course there may be companies for which there is also less than €810,000 of turnover, while you do want them to be punished accordingly, compared to smaller companies, with 10% being achieved. Anyway, let's wait and see the Minister's answer. We see that a number of laws here have been tightened by that 10% recently. Minister Kamp has done the same. I quoted a letter from him dated 11 February 2014, in which he wrote: I choose to hit companies above €810,000 in cartel formation, in which case. Let us ensure that at least there is a good outcome and that the Warenwet will join those stricter laws instead of being a strange duck in the bite.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u25	I didn't hear any further questions. I am also very interested in the Minister's answer. For example, if a large meat processor from the south of the country with a turnover of 7 billion gets a fine in category five, that is not enough for those big boys. I'm very curious about the Minister's response. We assume that everyone acts in good faith. We are not going to change a law or raise a fine ceiling to bully people or pull the skin over the nose, but we have seen that the food chains have become very complicated. It's very big players, the margins are low and there's a lot of money to be made. We would very much like to see the risk of abuses as low as possible and, if people are caught, they are actually severely punished. We look forward to the General Measure of Management, in which we explain the revenue dependency.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u26	In itself, I have no problem with the text that if people are caught, they should be punished really hard, but the question is how Mrs Dikkers sees the relationship between administrative law and criminal law in this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u27	The amendment of the law clearly defines for which offences you pass into criminal law. I do not have the text at hand, but when it comes to a genuinely high risk, administrative law is no longer enough. Then we must move on to criminal law. We are not making that up on the spot, but that is laid down in the legislative amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u28	The degree of culpability is a very grey area. At some point you come on conditional intent, intent and such. As you raise the board fines, you'll end up in criminal law later. The question is whether Mrs. Dikkers prefers to impose a fine or does Mrs. Dikkers prefer to throw people in prison?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u29	Mrs. Dikkers prefers it just to be fine. Mrs Dikkers prefers to see people comply with the law and that public health is not at risk. We would like to make a law that has the most terrifying effect. Recently, we have seen that the gentleman who has been cheated with meat has been held in prison for two and a half years. It seems to me that this has a very deterrent effect, apart from the fact that it is, of course, very far-reaching for the person concerned. A fine for that company might have had a lot less effect, but I can't really determine that. I do know that it is a good thing that for many companies who commit offences that are weighed differently from those referred to criminal law, the fine is high enough. Surely the CDA colleague can't disagree with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u30	There's a certain slippery slope in it. At some point it may be interesting for a government to choose the administrative route because it requires less capacity than the road through criminal law. This may result in the most deterrent punishment being imposed on someone to throw the prison away much less. We now see how much that is needed to send a signal that such things simply cannot. How does this amendment prevent Mrs Dikkers from going that way?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u31	That is not what I would like to avoid, or rather that is what I am not doing with this amendment. It's not for me to judge. The only aim of this amendment is to increase the fine ceiling. It's up to the judge to judge, not us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u32	Were you at the end of your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u33	Not quite yet. I have another paragraph.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u34	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u35	We look forward to the General Measure of Management with the explanation of revenue dependence. We would very much like to hear from the Minister when we can meet the AMvB. The fact that we are dealing with this amendment so late when it has been ready for some time was part of our agenda. I'm guessing they didn't sit still at the Ministry. Perhaps the AMvB is already in concept. When can we expect it? We support the CDA. I find it interesting that the Chamber will be discussing the AMvB. We look forward to the early entry into force of this law. We would like to hear from the Minister when she thinks it is time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u36	There have been no more speakers. That brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'm suspending the meeting until exactly 7:35 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u37	We resume a little later than exactly 19.35 hours, but there was still something to look for. I am happy to give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u38	Mr President, thank you very much. Today we are discussing the bill to amend the Warenwet and the Warenwet BES. This bill proposes to increase the maximum amount of administrative fine for breach of a law on goods. In addition, some other changes are proposed, such as rules on the promotion of tattooing or piercing. This bill raises the maximum fine per violation of a law on goods to €81,000. The food incidents in recent years, such as the horse meat affair and the incident with salmonella in salmon, are reason for me to want to raise the penalty ceiling in the Warenwet. The current maximum fine of €4,500 is far too low for such cases. I have already mentioned this in previous debates. The increased fine ceiling will apply to the whole area of the Warenwet, including those areas in which the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment is responsible. The Minister for Social Affairs and Employment is co-executor of the Warenwet for various technical products. For example, personal protective equipment, explosion-proof equipment, lifts and machinery are the responsibility of the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment. This legislative proposal also eliminates the difference in the maximum fine for an employer who makes an unsafe work equipment available to his employees and a manufacturer or importer of such unsafe work equipment. This difference was created by the Law tightening enforcement and sanctioning policy SZW legislation. This Act entered into force on 1 January 2013. This law increases the maximum fine per violation of a large number of labour laws to €81.000. This applies, inter alia, to the Working Conditions Act. Between the Working Conditions Act and the Warenwet is a close relationship. Machines used at the workplace are work equipment within the meaning of the Working Conditions Act. A manufacturer or importer of such work equipment is subject to the Warenwet regime. An employer who provides an unsafe work equipment is currently faced with a higher administrative fine than the manufacturer or importer of such work equipment because of the difference in the penalty ceilings in both laws. In addition to the adjustment of the fine ceiling, this bill makes it possible to impose a turnover-related fine. For the VWS area of the Warenwet I will introduce a turnover-related fine to deal with firm cases of fraud and deception. These are infringements of fair trade and good information to consumers. In addition, there must be intent or gross guilt on the part of the offender. The turnover-related fine on the VWS site is imposed on companies with a minimum annual turnover of €500,000. The amount of the fine shall then be set at 10% of the annual turnover. This fine is limited by the new penalty limit of €81.000. Infringements involving a direct threat to public health are eliminated through criminal law. The current fixed fine amounts, €525 for small businesses and €1,050 for large companies, which are now in the Warenwet decision administrative fines, I keep in place for the other cases. In a large number of cases, these are offences which have not been committed intentionally or grossly. The amounts of fines fixed for these infringements are sufficient. These fixed fines are expected to be applied in most of the infringements detected by the NVWA. The Minister for Social Affairs and Employment will introduce a turnover-related fine for the technical products first placed on the market. The elaboration of the increase in the fine ceiling and the inclusion of a turnover-related fine will be done through an amendment of the Waren Decree administrative fines. That amendment will be put into procedure as soon as possible. In addition to this turnover-related fine and the fixed fines, the NVWA and the Inspection SZW have other administrative sanctions which can be particularly dissuasive for a company. The recall of products or the temporary or total closure of a company has major financial consequences and can lead to major image damage and therefore also financial damage. Last week, in the debate on the fish and meat chain, I announced that I would come together with the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs with a new and stronger supervisory framework for NVWA. Moreover, it does not now have a supervisory framework. As far as I am concerned, the NVWA must pursue a robust policy of intervention which makes the best use of all available instruments. The introduction of the turnover-related fine gives the possibility of more stringent enforcement. I'm here for tattooing and piercing. You may only apply a tattoo or piercing if you have a permit. This permit is granted if you have proven to work safely and hygienically. Non-sanitary work can lead to infections and blood-transmitted diseases. In order to protect consumers from these risks, I believe that compliance with this legislation is important. This compliance is facilitated by the proposed amendment. Right now, any tattooist and piercer are allowed to advertise to offer their services, including the unlicensed one. This amendment proposes to allow advertising for the application of tattoos or piercings only if the tattooer or piercer actually has that licence. This intention was announced in May 2012 in a cabinet response to the review of the Tattooing and Piercing Act. What kind of problem do we solve with this? This will enable us to maintain this more effectively, and we will be able to catch companies faster than we can catch at the moment. Now we have to catch them red-handed. A lot of tattooists are home tattooists. See if you can catch them red-handed. This will therefore make enforcement much more efficient. There is a shortage of capacity in all areas. We therefore need to use this capacity as efficiently as possible. Other amendments to the Warenwet in this proposal concern changes in powers, including the designation of other inspection bodies. They were previously appointed by the Minister for Economic Affairs. This concerns the designation of bodies carrying out investigations to ensure that the correct quantity of pre-packaged consumer products is contained in the packaging. It also concerns the more efficient implementation of European legislation in the Warenwet. Finally, I come to the amendment of the BES Warenwet. It lays down the monitoring of compliance with this law with the island authorities. This has already been regulated for food and drink products, but is now also regulated for other consumer products. The IGZ now controls these other consumer products. Monitoring can be shaped more effectively by ensuring enforcement by local inspectors, as is already happening for food and drink products. In this way, clear and effective monitoring is ensured, taking into account the specific circumstances of the islands. I've put the questions together on the subject. The amount of the fine has been the most important issue. That is why I shall begin with that subject. The question was asked as to how the AMvB is to be filled in with regard to fines and whether the fine ceiling is sufficient. As I have said, I intend to introduce a turnover-related fine for infringements in the field of fair trade and good information to consumers. This must include offences involving intent or gross negligence on the part of the offender. These are cases of deception and fraud. Why do I harmonise towards Social Affairs, and not towards the ACM? Social Affairs is therefore partly responsible for the Warenwet. Under that law, we have a kind of shared responsibility. Certain parts of the Warenwet are the responsibility of the Minister of SZW and other parts of that law are my responsibility. Then it makes sense for you to align the fine ceilings. As the Minister for Social Affairs raised the ceiling to €81.000 on 1 January 2013, there was a far too big difference. That's why it's okay to equalize this. We have therefore looked in particular at the ceiling on social security fines. There is another argument that Mrs Bruins Slot actually mentioned. Where you want to punish another way, you shouldn't make criminal law very unattractive. Criminal law is complicated and the burden of proof is heavier. However, in criminal law, for example, you can actually impose a prison sentence on people. That's what happened recently in a verdict. If you make the fines so high that the court is actually avoided, I think it's out of the question. That's what you have to look at with each other. You can differentiate in that. Mrs Leijten feared that small businesses would be hit disproportionately hard. In most cases where the NVWA occurs, it is small companies. By far the majority of fines are small fines. We are simply maintaining them, but we are raising the ceiling because we want to act harder, firmer and more stringent if we really need to. As far as the proposed 10% is concerned, we are thinking of €500,000 annual turnover and then 10%. When is there serious guilt or intent? If there is any reckless act or deliberate violation of the Warenwet. An example. An entrepreneur sells water mixed with sugar like honey. That's deliberate. There is gross guilt when an entrepreneur deliberately renounces his duty of care, for example by deliberately ignoring the hygiene rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u39	That's it with the fines?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u40	I have a few things left, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u41	Mrs Leijten, why don't we wait and see what you're doing about the fines?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u42	The Authority Consumer & Market has imposed an administrative fine of €810,000 on someone who has sent over 2 billion commercial e-mail messages. With that, the ACM wanted to send a signal. I don't know how it ends, because it's still in court. They've also appealed. I have indicated why we have used our ceiling in one law with two ministers responsible in this case. I would like to stress that the Council of State was already quite critical of the step we took, from €4,500 to €81,000. The board thought that was a pretty big step. I have two amendments on this subject, but I can also deal with them after Mrs Leijten's interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u43	Let's do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u44	With regard to the situation of personal guilt and criminal prosecution, as in the case of the meat trader from Oss, I have asked questions about the cooperation between NVWA and the Public Prosecutor. For small entrepreneurs and the fines they receive, namely 10%, I think it is logical that the amount should be below the fine ceiling. I cannot explain why the violation of trade in dangerous fish is penalised less in terms of maximum penalty than, for example, not handling privacy data at your disposal. That difference is a factor of 10: up to €81,000 fine versus up to €810,000 fine. Can the Minister explain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u45	We'll see.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u46	It's always hard to compare things you can't compare to each other. I was of the opinion, with Mrs Leijten, that €4,500 is not really a terrifying fine. I also note that I have taken a significant step towards €81,000. The Council of State was critical of this great step. I think, however, that they can be defended. Two ministers are responsible for the Warenwet. They also have to do with each other, because you can fly it from two sides in different situations. Then it's crazy to have a totally different fine on the one hand than on the other. That's how we got to that €81,000. Of course you are in the case of small businesses with small austerities with fines of €525. But from five tons of annual turnover you can give 10%. Then you really get to the bigger companies and you can also act harder. And yes, there's $81,000 on that. I'm not in principle in that. It's a chosen system. I have already been criticised for taking a big step, but I have joined the other minister responsible for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u47	With the increase from €4,500 to €81,000, there is indeed a 20-fold increase. That's a lot. However, if you compare it with, for example, the Competition Act, in which you can get a fine of almost one million for cartels, which also penalises the consumer, then it is out of the question again. It's just what you compare it with. It's clear that the Minister is comparing it to something other than me. What I don't understand is this. In my speech, I gave the example of salmon merchant Foppen: at least four people died from infected salmon. That trader got that fine back in 20 minutes. If the fine goes times 20, he'll have earned it back in seven hours. Actually, I don't think that's correct. If the Minister says that a turnover from five tonnes is charged 10% with a maximum of €88.000, we will go to companies of eight tonnes. All farms above eight tonnes, and that is a lot, especially in the meat/fish industry, are not going to pay at all. I challenge the Minister to look at it and not necessarily to join Social Affairs, but to join the Competition Act, which is also about trade and competition.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u48	The Warenwet is obliged to use criminal law if there is a deliberate or reckless offence which directly endangers human health or safety. In other cases, an administrative penalty shall be chosen. If things have actually happened deliberately or recklessly and people are put at risk, then the way to the chief of staff is the way you have to go. There is no supervisory framework for the NVWA. We do have that supervisory framework for the IGZ. That's even sharpened. Last week, the Secretary of State and I indicated that we should also have a supervisory framework for NVWA. That's gotta be bigger. If a company has had six warnings and still hasn't been fined, I don't think it excels in action and in "oh, what a frightening thing we are doing." I fully agree with Mrs Leijten that we should write together a new supervisory framework and that we should submit it to the Chamber. We also agree that not only should companies be involved in the question of how to do better, but in some situations that is very important, but also that the supervisor should act if he is not being listened to or if a company is really doing something wrong. For this reason, I would like to propose a strengthened review framework, but I would also like to see the road to the criminal justice system chosen if that is really on the agenda. Mrs. Leijten asked if there was some kind of protocol between OM and NVWA. There's an enforcement arrangement. It's updated every year. Twice a year, within this arrangement, consultations take place between the Public Prosecutor's Office and the NVWA on which route is most appropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u49	I would just like to point out that the derogation from the imposition of an administrative fine is laid down by law and that we do not want to deviate from it either. The difference we saw last week between the meat trader from Oss and what we know from salmon trader Foppen is very large. It is not so much a question of whether you are going to apply criminal or administrative law, because I think that the Minister and the SP are very quickly in agreement on this. If possible, there must be personal prosecution. If you can prove it, don't forget it. My question is why the Minister joins Social Affairs with the fine regime instead of opting for, for example, the competition and competition rules of the ACM, which is also about trade and profit making and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u50	I thought I explained that. On the one hand, if you can fine an employer who makes an unsafe work equipment available to his employees with €81,000, and on the other hand you can impose a fine of €4,500 on a manufacturer or importer of the same unsafe work equipment, that is not in balance, while those resources are made available or imported. I believe that we should continue to work closely together in the Warenwet. The Minister of SZW and the Minister of VWS have joint responsibility for that one law. We must therefore be clear about our system of fines.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u51	We are going to deal with the amendments, the amendments from the Chamber to the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u52	Not all of them, but just the two that relate to this subject. Those are the amendments to item No. 14 by Mrs Leijten and Amendment No 14 by Mrs Leijten, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 15 by Mrs Dikkers. The amendment in part No. Fourteen I advise. As I said, there is a substantial increase in the fine under the Warenwet: from €4,500 to €81,000, almost twenty times as much. I think that is right, because it must be much more dissuasive. It is in line with the maximum fine in the Arbo legislation. In addition to the power to impose an administrative fine, the NVWA and the Inspection SZW have other administrative sanctions which are dissuasive for a company. We must also pay attention to this in the supervisory framework. If you shut down a band or a company, even if it's only temporary, or if you get products back, there will be huge consequences. It is not only reputational damage for a company, but it also has financial consequences. Not only are you dependent on those fines, but you can use an entire palette to take action. I will also come up with a new supervisory framework.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u53	I would like to ask a short question about this, because there is a discussion in the Chamber to raise the fine to €810,000. Last week, in the debate, the Minister said that we need to look much more closely at how the Food and War Authority companies can get to the weakest place, so that it also hurts. Is that what the Minister says?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u54	Yes, this increase in fines is part of that framework, as is a strict supervisory framework. You should also say more often: something goes very wrong here, so that band will stop or that company will close. Hard where it has to be and soft where it can be.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u55	Then I also think it is important that the road to criminal law remains well open and that administrative law does not become an excuse not to do criminal law. Criminal law also has prison sentences, and that also works quite terrifyingly. Is it true that I hear the Minister say that she wants to keep the road to criminal law completely open, because she also wants to prevent us from having very high fines later on?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u56	Criminal law imposes higher demands on the burden of proof. That's a very difficult road, but if we think we should go there, we should go there. We also have the enforcement arrangement between OM and NVWA for that. I think it's important that we actually follow that route. I admit immediately that through administrative law you can take sanctions that may also be more severe. If you stop a company, it will intervene harder than if you impose a €20,000 fine through criminal law. Sometimes people need to be punished harder, and for that we have criminal law. It's been described in detail when we do that. This is specified in the enforcement arrangement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u57	I hear the minister say that she thinks you should hit companies where it hurts, like with fines. A meat processor in the south of the country whose name I won't mention, because I do that regularly, with a turnover of 7 billion, you won't get this fine. For that, it would be interesting to raise the fine ceiling. Does the Minister agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u58	We have more than a fine ceiling. We could shut down a company. Then it's really about substantial amounts of revenue you're gonna miss. That means reputational damage. We've had a whole process of a task force, in which we're making the chain complete. Then a company like this is blacklisted, so it doesn't get into the supermarkets anymore. We can do much more with these instruments, but we must also do so. That is why I am so attached to the fact that the Secretary of State for EZ and I together strengthen that enforcement framework. At the IGZ there is also the whole instrument, but you have to apply it. Then another company thinks it's a serious matter, that it needs to sit on it much stronger and listen much more to the quality manager.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u59	I hear what the Minister says. As far as the Labour Party is concerned, this is and-and: we should not impose a fine instead of all the other measures. I think we have a difference of opinion here, but we can.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u60	Yeah, you can. However, I would like to emphasise that it is very difficult to set two fine regimes on one law and that I am trying to correct that with this bill. With Mrs Dikkers' amendment to item No. 15 We're not going to double the fine 20 times but two hundredfold. The Council of State was already critical of the 20fold increase, so I don't know what he would think of that two hundredfold increase. That's a huge step. I think we are already taking a big step with the now announced 20-folding and the sharper supervisory framework, which defines more strictly when action is taken in relation to all other measures that the NVWA can take. In doing so, we send the signal to all companies that it is necessary to listen to the NVWA carefully and to have all your affairs in order quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u61	Either I have not listened carefully or I have not yet heard an explicit opinion on this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u62	I don't recommend the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u63	I would like to take away the suggestion from the Minister that if the penalty ceiling is dropped, what the SP proposes, or by making the fine more than eight tonnes, we should not impose a fine. You're just making space bigger. The Minister now sets the limit at 10% of the turnover of a food company, or up to eight tonnes. We have seen many examples of this in the food scandals of recent times. With the Labour Party, it's going to go to eight million. The SP doesn't set a limit. A company can shut down, but it hardly ever happens.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u64	This looks like a second term. What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u65	My question is: why does the Minister say that this increase is too large, when it is actually an opportunity to increase? The Minister will see that difference, won't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u66	Yes, but then I repeat the Council of State, which was critical of a twenty-fold increase. And now we're talking about a two-hundred-fold increase in the fine ceiling. The second argument is really very important to me. We are talking about the same things in the Warenwet; after all, one party imports, the other uses. I don't think it's right for one party to get a ten-fold higher fine than the other. Since the Minister of Social Affairs came up with this first, I join him. I do not think this is a matter of principle; if it had been a tonne, it would have been a tonne for me too. I agree with you that too little rigorous action is being taken. I do not deal with individual cases, because that is not my concern; for that, of course, we have an independent supervisor. However, I believe that we need to act more strictly and that we need to do more. That is why I would like to amend that supervisory framework.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u67	I note that the Minister continues to join the Minister for Social Affairs, but the Minister for the Interior, for example, ignores the Personal Data Protection Act as well as the Minister for Economic Affairs with regard to the Competition Act. They said that you could actually get to the eight tons as a maximum fine. As far as the SP is concerned, we do not impose a maximum. The criticism of the Council of State is therefore gone. We are not necessarily increasing. We say 10% of turnover, maximum, and that for the deterrent effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u68	I do not agree with other laws. I now have one law and two powers. It makes sense for me to agree to the same law with the other responsible minister. Something in addition to the question of when there is preference for administrative law and when for criminal law. I have just indicated this: an intentional or reckless offence, resulting in a direct danger to human health or safety. In other cases, an administrative sanction shall be chosen. In criminal law, more severe sanctions are possible, such as a custodial sentence. I think we should be sparing on criminal law in this matter. Then I'll come to the cooperation. I think the NVWA and the D.A. are working well together. Last week, in the debate with me and the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs on tightening up the supervisory framework, I indicated that we are involving the Public Prosecutor. Between the NVWA intelligence and investigation service and the D.A.'s office, there is regular coordination on matters that can lend themselves to criminal prosecution. This happens from the moment an anonymous or non-anonymous signal arrives about possible criminal behaviour in the NVWA's field of activity. The Public Prosecutor's Office finally decides whether it is feasible and appropriate to actually prosecute and bring the case before the criminal court. Since the start of the NVWA on 1 January 2012, the NVWA-IOD, under the authority of the Public Prosecutor's Office, has conducted an average of fifteen to twenty investigations per year. The studies are carried out in areas such as meat chain and food safety, fish chain, animal welfare, feed, fertilisers and plant protection products. The cooperation between the Public Prosecutor and the NVWA is good. In the supervisory framework I have promised, I will, as I have already said, involve the Public Prosecutor's Office. In two cases, no administrative penalty is imposed, but criminal law is used through the Law on Economic Crimes or the Code of Criminal Law. I have already mentioned the first case: an intentional or reckless offence, which poses a direct risk to human health or safety. Secondly, no administrative penalty is imposed if the administrative penalty is significantly exceeded by the economic advantage obtained. So this is also a route. If someone has made a huge profit by breaking the law, you can also follow criminal law. Then I come to the front page and the amendment to item No. 16, member Bruins Slot. In her text, she said that she was concerned in particular with the following cases: if I change fixed amounts of fines in the WWWD or if another system is introduced for the calculation of fines. So that would also apply to the elaboration of the turnover-related fine that I would like to introduce as a result of this legislative proposal. I can live well with it if the amendment focuses on that. Then I can agree. However, as the amendment has now been drafted, it applies to any adjustment. Through the European Union, we are constantly getting adjustments. I'd have to put it up here every time. I think that this is a huge delay, which is actually unnecessary. How am I supposed to understand the amendment, as it is or as it should be?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u69	I think the Minister's first explanation is correct. I don't want us to have to come to the room with an AMvB for every wiper. I suggest that I consult with the minister's officials, in order to reach a final wording. Then there can be no misunderstandings if the law is dealt with further in the Upper Chamber. Can the Minister live with this proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u70	Sure. Then I'll leave the judgment to the Chamber. That sounds good to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u71	The amendment in part No. 16 will therefore be modified in such a way that this small point does not go wrong. Then the Minister can leave the verdict to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u72	Finally, I come to tattoos and piercings. In the introduction, I have already indicated that the ban on advertising is really motivated by the benefits of enforcement. Since the NVWA suffers from a shortage of people, as we all do, this is simply going to produce a lot of profit. We've been asked about the capacity. It's limited on these kinds of parts, because you always have to prioritize. If you can do more with fewer people, it seems to me only advantageous. Then we'll make it easier for ourselves. The burden of proof is also easier. Why is there a limited number of fines being awarded? There are too many warnings for the fines. The NVWA acts when a tattoo artist has no license. If you don't have a license and the NVWA comes along, the rule is that you get a warning when you say you're going to apply for a permit. I have recently indicated that I really want to tighten up intervention policy. I think it's really bad to say that if you get caught, you get a warning and if you still apply, you don't get a fine. In the enforcement framework, I will focus on strengthening intervention policy. It has been asked whether there will be cooperation with other bodies. The NVWA and other inspection services work together and also send signals to each other. Agreements on cooperation are made in the Inspection Board. It's got all the supervisors in it. We've been asked for actions to tackle tattoos and piercings. The NVWA conducts unannounced inspections to check that tattooists comply with the hygiene guidelines. In addition, the website Secure tattooing and piercing, with information on the health risks of tattooing and piercing and aftercare, has been improved. I understand Mrs Bruins Slot doesn't think it's much. To be honest, I've never looked at the site myself. During their inspection, the GGDs stress the importance of providing information to the consumer. We'll take a look at that website. It's not very sharp on everyone's retina, I have to admit. We will see if we can improve on this. It has been asked whether the ashes of deceased people can be used. You can't do that. It is forbidden to mix tattoo ink with the ashes of a deceased person. However, it is difficult to control. You need to be there when there's a mix. You really need to see it and catch someone red-handed. I will examine the possibilities in consultation with the NVWA and the GGD. I'll come back to the briefing. Measures have been taken to improve information. The website has been improved. In addition, the tattooist should also provide information. I have already dealt with this point. Is there enough capacity? That is always a difficult question, because when will the capacity be sufficient? You're prioritizing. I can honestly say that food safety is the absolute priority of NVWA. That's why I wrote a plan. The Secretary of State for EZ and I have made additional resources available to improve the whole chain of supervision and efficiency, for example. There is monitoring, but if we can do this more efficiently by including an advertising ban, we will be able to do more with fewer people. This will make us actually more effective. For the years 2010 to 2013, 33, 64, 90 and 89 written warnings and 6, 18, 17 and 23 fines were issued respectively. The amendment in part No. Mr De Lange (ED). - (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr De Lange on his excellent report. I have indicated several times why. It is forbidden to put tattoos or piercings without a license. You can ask whether you should prohibit advertising for that. The answer is yes, if it makes enforcement simpler and more effective.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u73	In my view, we do not have the opinion on the amendment to item No. 12, that the old amendment to item No. 9 replaces.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u74	Could you suspend for a moment, Mr. Chairman? Then I'm gonna go find the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u75	Mr. Chairman. The second part of this amendment is similar or even exactly the same as that of Mrs Bruins Slot. We just talked about that. Then I come to the first part of the amendment. Article 13a of the Warenwet, as included in the legislative proposal, is intended to designate inspection bodies for the implementation of European Union rules and to lay down rules for the implementation of European directives at AMvB. The Netherlands often had or has had problems with timely implementation of the EU directives. Therefore, a large number of measures have been taken in the past, including the introduction of Article 1.8 of the General Administrative Law Act. This article is based on the principle that AMMs are not pre-established for the implementation of European directives, as the substantive choices are already set out in the European Directives. This amendment infringes the policy not to impose such AMMs. The question is also: what would be the reason for choosing the hardest pending procedure for this issue? That is why I do not recommend this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u76	With regard to the part of the fines, I can agree with what Mrs Bruins Slot has agreed with the Minister. It is not a question of technical matters, it is a matter of substance which, of course, the Chamber simply wants to be involved in. Actually, it's also about part E. If the policy is not to preside over logical obligations arising from adopted European legislation to the Chamber, then we do not want to interfere. However, it is also mentioned that there may be rules for the implementation of EU legislation with the added importance of environmental protection. Technically, this is the implementation of European directives. Of course the Minister has to do that. However, if there are any substantive policy changes, the SP attaches importance to the fact that they are being put forward. This is currently being amended in the law. We really want to be able to make the agreement that we get a signal if it is substantive and does not follow from European legislation. Should we be able to change this legally so that it is included in a new amendment to be made, I would ask the Minister whether we can look into it. We are not talking about all these technical things and European things, but really about new things that can now pass into an AMvB without being hung up on them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u77	I can well understand that the Chamber wants to think along and talk about things that are really different or that involve a different policy. I don't know if this is the case here. We should take a look at that. If that is the case, and Mrs Leijten can change the amendment so that we are actually talking about the same thing, then I have no objection to it. This rule has been made right, because we are always late with implementation and because there are things that we have no control over at all, well, no control; these are things that simply come directly from European directives, but if there are substantive considerations behind it, we need to look at whether we can put it in a good way with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u78	To keep it pure, you could of course also opt for a letter of amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u79	I think it would be easier if we took a look at this together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u80	It's up to the members to decide what they're gonna do. I am merely saying that, technically speaking, you can also opt for a letter of amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u81	I think the argument why it's so is pretty good. I would certainly like to be for the sake of the Chamber if it believes that it needs a bit of a tooth elsewhere. I am very keen that we proceed quickly with the Warenwet, because I want to raise the fines. I would therefore like to look at this point with Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u82	The situation, as far as I understand it, is as follows. The present amendment to point No. 12 is not recommended. There will be a new amendment, which will be considered in advance. Is that how I'm supposed to see it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u83	Yes, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u84	This brings the Minister to the end of her speech. I'll take a look around to see if there's a need for a second term. I see that this is the case. Is there also a need for a suspension prior to the second deadline? That is not the case. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr De Lange on behalf of the VVD Group. Speaking time per group shall not exceed one third of the speaking time from the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u85	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for her answers and my colleagues for their kind words in connection with the maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u86	You may be interrupted from now on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u87	That's fine. As regards the answer to the questions, I am in any case struck by the fact that Parliament-wide and also the Minister-in-Office are looking very strongly at strengthening the possibilities of tackling the illegal practice of tattoos and piercings. That's profit. I would like to ask the following question. The fines are mainly about large companies, but they are mainly the small companies that need to be dealt with in this sector. In this respect, the VVD welcomes the fact that a more stringent review framework will now be implemented. Everyone agrees that the effects are large, especially when it comes to health. I therefore call for the enforcement framework to look very specifically at the way in which tattoos and piercings can be dealt with. I say this in the knowledge that enforcement capacity is limited and that this legislative proposal calls for a more effective policy. As far as I am concerned, it would therefore be necessary for this type of practice to be effectively closed. I'm stuck with the point that you don't do enough if you just find out behind your computer that there's advertising. It's necessary that you go in there and start the whole chain. There is talk of cooperation in that chain. That's fine, but you're gonna have to make sure that source disappears eventually. That's more than just passing a fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u88	And there he is: your first interruption!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u89	Mr De Lange began his speech so nicely with the sense that he is a man of common sense. I think that's a trait that can be appreciated. The Minister's argument testified to common sense when she said: precisely by adjusting the approach to illegal advertising, we can use the capacity we have with the government much more effectively than if we do not. But what is Mr De Lange's amendment doing? This undermines precisely the effective ability of the Minister to better maintain and do more. My question is: where is the element of common sense in his proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u90	The main aim of amendments is to achieve something. I have the feeling that this amendment has at least succeeded in getting broad coverage of illegal practices in the tattoo and piercing sectors in this Chamber. In fact, I heard the Minister say that there will be more measures, including the review framework. If there are any legal possibilities, you have to be very careful to put new legal frameworks on top of them. That's a position of the VVD. We are talking about intensification, but we are talking about the intensification of the less than 2000 hours spent on it at the moment. My position is, don't let this be a symbolism. I have heard very clearly here in the Chamber that the effects are great. Therefore, let the ruling to achieve better and harder enforcement be effective. Let us also ensure that the messers in this sector are actually dealt with. That subject has been substantially amended. In this respect, this amendment has the function it should have.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u91	A second good feature of people is that they can come to conclusions after listening to an argument. That is what Mr De Lange is doing now. He may think: my proposal has opened up a debate, but in fact my proposal is not as good as the one made by the Minister. Mr De Lange's proposal concerning the amendment of this law is therefore less effective than the Minister's proposal. In the Chamber, it is good practice for a Member of Parliament to have the opportunity, in such a case, to withdraw his amendment. Then we won't have to vote on it anymore. Saves time and money. Is Mr De Lange withdrawing his amendment, now that the Minister has convinced him that it is a good thing to tackle the advertising of illegal home pickers?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u92	I note that Mrs Bruins Slot has at least made an assessment of this. That's okay, but that doesn't mean that's the VVD's judgment. I believe that you should always let the arguments that are being exchanged work well on you, otherwise debates in this Chamber will be pointless. You have to come to a good mix to make a final judgment. That's what you do in the moods. That will certainly be the case with the VVD. But there are a number of elements in it that are important to reach that judgment. We still need a little clarity from the Minister. How do you deal with the relatively smaller entrepreneurs in the tattoo and piercing industry? However, it is indicated that this €525 is far too low and has no deterrent effect. Another point that will be important in the consideration is the following. Knowing that enforcement capacity is limited, you can choose to say for some time in the context of thematicisation: we are now going to give priority to this. For example, by releasing capacity in different places within the enforcement chain, you can focus on this for a year. This will wipe the illegal tattooists and piercers off the market as best you can. As far as I am concerned, it would be highly desirable, if this were to be shared so widely, to give priority to it. That is a short blow without a long effect in terms of time, but that blow can be very effective. If, on the other hand, the industry and the good tattooists and piercers ensure that the professionals and the people who do follow the rules are advertised, then, I think, very effective steps are being taken. I come to the next point about fines. This concerns the merging of the two systems around the Warenwet and the Arbo legislation. I very much agree with the Minister that it is good to ensure that we reach the final goal. The final objective is to raise the fine ceiling. That is now a step of eighteen to twenty times over. That's fine and good. It would be a real shame if, by focusing on a number of current issues, however important and impactful, we chose to put the ten-folder over that. I think we should do this carefully. In this respect, the VVD Group believes that we should choose to take these steps with all due care. That is why it is good that we are seeing the development of the AMvB. That is why I feel very strongly about Mrs Bruins Slot's amendment, which provides for the active involvement of the Chamber, so that we can really make the decision, in the vein of: have the various steps been properly incorporated into the various branches and so do you get the right punishment if you ignore the rules?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u93	Punishment for those who deserve punishment. I often hear it coming by the VVD when it's election time. But the question is of course: are you not only doing it effectively, but are you also doing it terrifyingly? The food industry in the Netherlands is a huge billions industry. Then a fine of €81,000 is not a deterrent. 7 hours of work for the fish merchant I have mentioned before, who has at least 4 dead but at least 23,000 sick on his conscience, is of course a joke. Does the VVD really think that the Minister is doing the right thing by joining the Arbo Act, rather than joining the Competition Act, for example, where that eight tonnes is possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u94	I have heard the Minister say something else: tackle companies that illegally enrich themselves in the way that hurts the most. What struck me was that she said that you could also proceed to the sanction of shutting down or shutting down companies. That certainly applies to food companies, even throughout the chain. From my experience as a local driver, I know what the impact will be if you close companies for a while. That impact is huge. I'm in favour of that, too. It's a mix. It is about the frighteningness of the amount of the fine, but the effectiveness should certainly also be taken out of the fact that you choose to say: close for a while. Then it's gonna hurt in the wallet. That's where you end up hitting a company the best.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u95	I think it is worth marking that the VVD prefers to shut down companies rather than impose fines. We will certainly hold the VVD to that in the forthcoming debates on food scandals. What I find really weird is this. If you are suspected here in the Netherlands of fraud involving social benefits, benefits or pgbs, you will be recovered immediately. Much more is cut than 10%, which directly affects people's lives. When it comes to billions of companies in a billion-dollar industry that put people's health at risk, the VVD says: €80,000 is enough. I don't think it's normal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u96	Mrs. Leijten, this is not an interruption. You're holding a second term. You are giving a political consideration. That is your right, but not the interrupting microphone, but later from behind the speaker chair. What is your question to Mr De Lange?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u97	Individuals who, in the eyes of the VVD, abuse or possibly fraud with social services are immediately reduced by more than 10%, which directly affects their lives. If a company seriously puts people's health at risk, sometimes leading to deaths, the fine should not even be 10% of turnover. Does the VVD think that's proportionate? I hope not!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u98	I note that Mrs Leijten is rather scornful about the impact it will have when a company is shut down. I don't blame her. I have the impression that my constituents have a bit more idea of what is going on in business. That impact is huge! In this respect, it is therefore also a means of dealing directly with the undesirable effects that Mrs Leijten and I agree with. The way of the administrative penalty is also a way of first writing, then proof and that sort of thing. Then I prefer, if it's really wrong, the effectiveness of the short blow.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u99	The fact that I do not know what is going on in Mr De Lange's constituency or in the business community is a misguided remark. I also know, however, that there is a deliberate health damage on the market, because profits can be made. I believe that, as a policy, you have the task of creating the instrument that allows you to close down a business on the one hand and hurt a company financially on the other. I regret that the VVD has dropped out of that last instrument.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u100	In my view, this proposal now leaves open that you apply the appropriate punishment when it is necessary. In my opinion, fixing it already in a ceiling is, and that also applies to that 10%... Moreover, it could also be much more justified for a small entrepreneur to impose a higher fine if the effect is greater. I haven't heard that reasoning either. Especially in the case of tattoos and piercings, which my speech was about for an important part, that could very well be the case. I fear that it will not have the terrifying effect that we all want, if an illegal home tattooist has to turn in 10% of what he earned that month. I think I have responded to the two main points. For the overall consideration of the VVD group, it is still important to hear from the government how the supervisory framework will be implemented in practice, with a thematic approach to tattoos and piercings. As far as Mrs Bruins Slot's amendment is concerned, I would like to know exactly what the wording will be. The idea of putting that suspension procedure in the Chamber seems very sympathetic to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u101	Mr. Chairman. If there is more effective enforcement of home tattooists and piercingsetters, especially from the point of view, by making advertising a criminal offence, then we support that proposal. We also hope that this will pass the Chamber. The second part concerns the amendment to item No. 12. I just hope the Minister recognizes that. We don't care about the technical stuff. We are not concerned with implementing European directives. We, too, in the Chamber, must take good care of our resources and our time. We are concerned with the substantive change that is now also possible, through a General Measure of Management that can pass the Chamber without seeing it. I don't think that's the Minister's intention. It's our intention to fix that. I hope that we can find a way out of that, because I do not think there is any difference of opinion. However, there is a difference of opinion on something else that the Minister repeated in this debate. She said several times: my absolute priority is people's food safety. That sounds good. There will be an enforcement framework, a supervisory framework, because there is no such framework. Of course, we'll have to get there soon. What matters is the instrument case or actually the repair case. For one defect you need a screwdriver, but for other cases you need a demolition hammer. You must have those tools in the house. If the problem is so big that you don't get there with a screwdriver, you use another instrument. The question is whether you have all the instruments today. It has been said that it is much more effective to shut down a company if it violates the Warenwet. Fine if that's the enforcement framework. Our activity in this sector has a turnover of 51 billion in the Netherlands. The turnover of exports is even greater, even 60 billion. Shutting down a company like that could be risky. I think it is a firm proposal from the VVD: no fines at all, but simply shut down those companies. I am curious to see to what extent the VVD spokesperson can sustain this in the debates on food safety. The tool of the demolition hammer is already there. If you do not want to shut down the company, but if you do want to punish it for abusing the confidence in the food safety of the Dutch people, you must be able to impose a penalty that also does justice to the offence. In the event of a breach of the Personal Data Protection Act, the maximum penalty for infringements of recidivists is more than eight tonnes. When violating food safety we sit at €80,000. I think we are making a mistake with that. I understand that the Minister says she is joining the Minister of Social Affairs, but I challenged her to join what the Minister of Economic Affairs is doing. In the case of cartels and unfair commercial practices, he even goes beyond the maximum fine. He believes that the fine can also be 10% of the turnover. The idea is that you can more effectively prevent it from happening in advance, but at least you can punish it well if it has happened. You can do society justice. I would ask the Minister to think about harmonization in the other direction. In criminal law you can eventually also get a fine of 10% of turnover. It's crazy that you can't impose that fine by administrative means. You can impose that fine on perhaps the same companies as they have made cartel agreements if they have agreed prices, but not if they harm people's health. I think that's weird. I invite the Minister once again to look at it this way. The step from the PvdA to eight tonnes is a good step, but I also want to leave open the possibility of using 10% for companies that are much larger. Mrs. Dikkers mentioned a company with a turnover of 7 billion. A fine of eight tons is only a little more than a lousy 1% for such a company. Maybe they're laughing at it. I am not concerned that this fine is always imposed, but I do want the instrument to be in the toolbox of our supervisors. I think we are limiting the NVWA and the Warenwet, while we are giving those instruments to the Protection of Personal Data Act, the Competition Act and the Code of Criminal Law. I think it's a missed opportunity for the Minister not to embrace this today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u102	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for her answers. I would particularly like to thank her for responding more strongly to some of the CDA's concerns about the drafting of this law. Her argument about the efficient use of the administrative route and the efficient use of the criminal route is good. She wants a good toolbox that she wants to use efficiently. She especially wants to strike hard where it is necessary. That's a good way to go. I have one more point about tattooing. I believe that the Minister has made it sufficiently clear in the debate that we can maintain much more efficient and effective by prosecuting and illegal advertising. The effects that illegal tattoos can have for people are enormous. The health risks are just big. I therefore welcome the fact that the Minister is going to do more about this enforcement. That is why I am not going to support Mr De Lange's amendment. He's actually letting go of the old situation. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Als één ding uit de oude situatie blijkt, is het dat die een effectieve handhaving in de weg zit.]] I also think that this is a waste of public money. Then I'd rather we just get that one good bet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u103	Mr De Lange's first interruption in this house.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u104	Does Mrs Bruins Slot agree with me that it is important that it does not just continue to detect behind the screen and impose a fine on it? Does she agree with me that it should be the start of an enforcement activity that ultimately ensures that this illegal tattooist or piercer actually stops those activities, so that it should be much more than just remote detection and that it should be tried to really remove the core?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u105	I think that's a good way to go. I still had a question. The Minister is clear about tattooing with ashes from dead people. She says you can't. That has not been sufficiently clear to me so far. It seems clear to me to inform people that there are indeed risks involved. Actually, there's one more question I have back there. I have noticed in the search I had here and in the people I have talked about it that it can be of special value to some people, because it can bring loved ones who have died very close to them. So I have another question I want to put. Could the minister ask the field, so to the tattooists themselves, and to the GGD whether there might be a responsible way to do this? This was not so clear from the answer given by the Minister, at least not to me. I would like her to be able to make it clear once again that this is what she meant.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u106	Mr. Chairman. I have two and a half minutes left if I have half my first-term speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u107	Why don't you just start? It's gonna be okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u108	Mr. Chairman. It was a debate with a lot of good news. Fines are going up. The Minister has indicated that the fine ceiling is not a matter for her, but that she is next. It has become clear to us when criminal law is in force. It has also become clear that the fine must have a deterrent effect on business. Where the PvdA and the minister are still running a bit apart, is the level of the fine. I would like to give her further consideration to looking at policy areas that are not just related to SZW. The Minister has given a rather technical explanation. She says it's one law that flies you off two routes. In some cases, I understand that perfectly, for example when it comes to business resources that the company buys with one fine on one system and the other fine on the other. As far as food safety is concerned, that would not apply at all. For those parts, other fine regimes could very well be adopted, as far as the PvdA is concerned. We also do not support the VVD amendment. I really appreciate the fact that our NVWA is getting some extra resources to deal with people. However, we are very pleased that we have a new colleague among us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u109	This brings us to the end of the second term of office. I have found that the Minister can reply immediately. I shall give her the floor to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u110	Mr. Chairman. I'll make one more attempt to convince the VVD spokesperson. In the more stringent review framework, it must be very clear that if you have an illegal company, or if you do your things illegally, you will not get a warning, but a fine, and that your case will of course stop. It must therefore be very clear that we are maintaining and taking action. It is said that we have little capacity. That's right. The entire NVWA has little capacity. By including that advertising ban, we're using capacity more efficiently. However, this is also a matter of priorities. Mr De Lange asks whether we cannot turn it into a subject. That may well happen sometime, but my priority now is food safety. We had salmonella on salmon, we had the case where beef was mixed with horse meat, and we had the listeria bacteria; I never know exactly how you pronounce that word. I, together with the Secretary of State, have proposed to the Cabinet, and thus the Chamber, to sit on top of that. We have drawn up a plan of action and we have made every effort to ensure better food safety. Now Mr De Lange asks me whether I should also like to give priority to tattooists. If I said that here, it wouldn't be fair. Because that's not what we're gonna do. I'm not gonna say that either. I do want us to use the capacity we do have more efficiently. I do so simply by taking a rather simple and not very difficult measure, namely by using this law to address advertising. As a result, the burden of proof is no longer necessary. You can keep a lot of rimram out of it, actually. You can take immediate action on the basis of an advert. So catching it in the act is gonna go all the way out with that. Mrs Leijten said that we want to broaden the case. That may be so, but the case is wider than Mrs Leijten outlined. If an administrative fine is given to a company that has earned much more with a trade that was not good and not legal, there is of course also the Law on Economic Crimes. With that, you can actually get those earnings back. So it's not like we can never outrun that $81,000. It is true that we can never exceed that amount by administrative means. But by means of criminal law you can certainly remove the economic advantage obtained by this law and impose a fine, and perhaps a prison sentence will also be added. A whole range of measures is therefore possible. You can't just shut down a company. You can also suspend or withdraw approval of the establishments. You can restrict or prohibit the marketing of food and non-food products. You can recall, withdraw or destroy food and non-food products. You may authorise the use of foods for purposes other than those for which they were intended. You can temporarily order all or part of the closure of the company concerned. You can warn consumers about the person who sells or has traded a food that presents a hazard. Then there is criminal law and we have the measures that are possible on the basis of the Law on Economic Crimes. So we can do incredibly much and we really have a huge case with instruments at our disposal. I would say: let us use and deploy these instruments to the maximum, and let us put a strict supervisory framework on them. That way we can actually take steps with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u111	Mrs Leijten, I am happy to give you the floor, but I would ask you to avoid repeating moves, because that is not a good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u112	We can indeed use the Economic Crimes Act if Article 32a (3)b is on the agenda. I realize that very well. That is also good, and that is a good toolbox. On the other hand, according to the SP, it would be very useful for us to be able to impose the 10% penalty if Article 32a (1) and (2) were to be applied. We're not gonna agree. The difference is not in whether you can use the Economic Crimes Act to recover profits. We are also concerned about the deterrent effect for people who knowingly, or perhaps not knowingly, but recidivizingly, simply market bad food and thereby endanger health.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u113	You have to do it by the right route. Sometimes the administrative route is on, and sometimes you have to choose the criminal route. Legislation therefore enables us to recover wrongly made profits. I promised Mrs Bruins Slot in the first term that I would look at the information site. Better informing those who want to get tattooed is the most important thing, so I'll look at that site, apart from the ad. I reported it, but if it wasn't clear, I'll say it again. I'll check with GGD's to see if there's any way to safely tattoo with ashes. I don't know, I don't know, but I'll see if there's any way to do that. Mrs Dikkers says that we differ. She's wondering if we shouldn't look at the food safety component. I've just pointed out what the instruments are like. I believe that, especially with an adapted supervisory framework, we can act well: hard where necessary and soft where possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-10.u114	I thank the Minister for her presence. I heard she had a cold. Maybe soon, under the wool? Next Tuesday we will be voting on the amendments tabled.
