ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-8.u1	Mr. Chairman. Next Monday is the Agriculture and Fisheries Council, which is why I would like to table a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in a previous aid package, the French Government committed direct income support such as compensation for labour and health care and reimbursement of interest on loans to French farmers, and that direct income support leads to an uneven playing field and has adverse effects on the competitiveness of Dutch farmers;]] [[noting that the French Government is also committed to this goal at European level, and that the European Commission has presented a package of measures in which it is not yet clear what the framework conditions are;]] [[calls on the Government to launch a package of measures with clear criteria and conditions ensuring a level playing field within Europe, so that individual Member States cannot resort to direct operating aid from this package and have no adverse effects on the competitiveness of Dutch farmers;]] [[calls on the Government to oppose a package of measures which does not include such safeguards,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Lodders and Mr Dijkgraaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-21501-32-872]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-8.u2	Mr. Chairman. I have read the Minister's letter meticulously, but I have not seen sustainability and innovation in it. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the European Commission has presented a package of aid measures worth EUR 500 million comprising three components: addressing liquidity problems, stabilising markets and food supply chain reform;]] [[Whereas it does not provide sufficient incentives for a transition from bulk production to a sustainable and future-proof agricultural sector;]] [[calls on the Government to promote its inclusion in the Commission package and to make the Dutch part of the package available as a matter of priority to those dairy farmers and pig farmers who commit themselves to such a change,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Koşer Kaya and Mr Dikkers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-32-873]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-8.u3	I also find it extremely pleasurable that the Secretary of State has done her best for chain transparency and that this has now been taken up. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-8.u4	This brings to an end the deadline on the part of the Chamber. We wait until the Secretary of State has the text of both motions. Before I give the floor to the Secretary of State, I still have to welcome her to this debate and thank her for coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-8.u5	Mr. Chairman. I will try to be brief, but perhaps I can make a brief introduction. Last Monday there was a discussion between the Council of Agriculture Ministers and the European Commission, where the Commission presented a package of as much as half a billion to accommodate the various Member States, all Member States. An important part of that package is that there is a national envelope in it; that was an explicit wish of the Netherlands. However, as I see it, there is still not enough room for the Netherlands to use this envelope in such a way that all our sectors that need it, besides dairy farming, can benefit from it, with priority now also pig farming. This will therefore be an important battle point in the coming week, in addition to the discussion on the key used and the content of the package. I will say something about sustainability later, because it was and is clearly the starting point not only for the Dutch Government, but also for the European Commission. This is evident from the fact that the Commission really does not include unwise proposals that are on the table, for example the French proposal for an intervention price in dairy farming, with which we would not only severely harm our Dutch farmers, but would also go back to the butter mountains and milk lakes that we had in the late 1980s, early 1990s. I am therefore very pleased that the present proposal, in its outline, is nevertheless something that meets what the Netherlands has asked for. I'll get on the motions. I have a very great understanding of the intention of the motion in part No. 870, tabled by Mr Lodders and Mr Dijkgraaf. By doing so, they aim to ensure that, when a package comes, this does not organise the playing field in Europe even more to the detriment of Dutch farmers. However, especially in the second part of the operative part, which states that individual Member States cannot take measures from this package leading to direct operating aid, in fact the legal basis for the possibility to pay out a national envelope falls. This also removes the possibility for me, for example, to use part of such an envelope, if it succeeds, for the vitalisation plan of the pig sector. If the proposers are prepared to put an end to the request that we use on a package of criteria that ensure a level playing field, I can consider the motion to support the policy. If they leave the motion unchanged, they are actually calling on me to refrain from understanding the national envelope and to deprive me of the opportunity, for example, to use it in part for a number of sustainability blows which I have discussed with the pig sector this afternoon and which are strictly necessary. That will also indirectly lead us to really want to help individual pig farmers at the moment. I very much hope that the motion will be changed, otherwise I will have to discourage it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-8.u6	It is difficult to respond directly to this because of the short timeframe, but that is not possible. Well, here's the thing. If other Member States opt for direct income support, the cost difference will only increase for our Dutch farmers. In July, the French Government adopted a number of measures. I do not have an overview of how this is regulated in other Member States. The Netherlands can make an effort to include the other sectors too. That is a noble aim and I appreciate the approach of the Secretary of State, but I think we should do something about the cost difference. That's my dilemma. Can the Secretary of State specifically address this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-8.u7	This is, of course, one of the points that has always been pointed out by the Dutch sector. We would like the Dutch Government to go along with proposals to do so. As far as I am concerned, the envelope which may be heading our way will be partly used for this. When you say 'other countries are going to do the same, and I do not want to', that deprives me of the opportunity to do the same. But I do understand the dilemma. The thinking of Mrs Lodders and Mr Dijkgraaf is that you need to work towards a level European playing field. We also need a package of measures to ensure that we do not simply move the well to another place in Europe. This has not solved the problem. That is how I understand Mrs Lodder's and Mr Dijkgraaf's efforts, and I support them. However, when you work with national envelopes, we can only come forward with a package, including in the Netherlands, in which we will support individual farmers. That is necessary and it would be nice if European money could be used for this purpose. This then fits within the plan from the sectors themselves, in which they want to make the sustainability battles. Once again, when you do not want to, we have another problem. Then I can't do it in the Netherlands either. That's something that's obvious.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-8.u8	We have had the debate with each other. I believe that a motion by Mrs Koşer Kaya has been adopted, precisely on sustainability and innovation. That is what we want. At a time when the government of France or another Member State is going to reduce labour costs and health care, the same farmers will be back in Brussels in three months' time or they will be taking action in France. That's not helping. We must avoid this, because once again, this type of measure puts our farmers even further behind in the European context.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-8.u9	Two comments. In my contribution last Monday, I advocated that we should take precisely those measures that will only sustainably strengthen the sector in the economic and ecological sense in the long term. The Commission has also endorsed this and considered it to be an important point. The Commission wants to work in this way. We have noted, however, that it would be good if we could use our national envelope to make that move. If Member States make proposals that go against State aid rules, which apply to proposals that have been made in the past and for proposals that they are making now, then the Commission will be obliged to take action against them. The Commission has indicated that it wants to give Member States maximum room for discussion in order to complete that envelope. It seems to me that this is the right way forward. That's all I can say. I have to wait and see if, and if so in what way, my words will be effective. The Koşer Kaya motion in part No. I consider 871 to be a policy support, in the sense that the Commission's package as it stands does indeed provide a basis for moving towards a sustainable strengthening of the chain. The Dutch Government will be so willing to organise its package, in consultation with the sectors, that we will make that change. It is important to note that the European Commission is strongly opposed to proposals that are not economically and ecologically sustainable. I think it is very good that this is being done and we will have to continue to give it our strong support. In that sense, I can accept the motion in support of policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-8.u10	Mr Dijkgraaf has another question on the motion on which there has been a small debate before.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-8.u11	Thank you for the opportunity to do so, Madam President. I want to try to get together, because I can feel what the Secretary of State says. If we insert the word 'one-sided' in the first request after the word 'not' in the third line, then I feel that the point of the Secretary of State is in it. It will not be possible for another country to do so unilaterally, but if agreement is reached, it will be possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-8.u12	Then it becomes "not one-sided," so a word is inserted, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-8.u13	I'm afraid that's going to be very difficult. Maybe I could explain how it's gonna work. In fact, the President of the Commission does not need any Member States' agreement on the package that is now before us. The fact that we are discussing it here is for political and social reasons, but it is now possible to do so. Period. If some Member States want to introduce the bad idea of an intervention price, for example, and the Commission insists and says: we do not, it can only be included in the package if there is unanimity, and there is no unanimity. That's how it works. It is therefore very important for the Commission to be supported. If I can only spend my envelope in a way that is unanimous among the Member States, that would in practice be a very difficult negotiation process. For this reason, the Commission has said that we opt for maximum discretion, for maximum room for Member States to do it, but within the regulations which, of course, apply within Europe. This does not prevent different ways of using it. The problems in the countries are really different too, but you can have and keep a title to act, for example, if there is an unjustified threat of state aid. On the French package, I also sent a letter to the Chamber earlier. In practice, that seems to be less generous than what it looks like on paper. So we will have to take that into account. My text proposal would be not to add one word, but to stop at the word "guarantees" in the second sentence. Then you can express your message which I understand and which I also want to accept. That is what I can mention in my speech on Tuesday morning, and our people can do so during the high-level meetings that preceded it, without restricting my own room for manoeuvre, for example, to come up with sensible proposals with the pig sector's vitalization group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-8.u14	The Secretary of State is crystal clear. I think we're just gonna discuss what version it's gonna be. For the time being it is at least the existing version.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-8.u15	For now, I'm gonna have to dissuade this one. You know what version I could embrace.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-8.u16	We are going to vote at 5.30 p.m., including the motions that have just been tabled.
