ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u1	Mr. Chairman. Last Saturday, we read in the newspaper that the Minister of Education "disturbs the fact that students always want to go higher." A bizarre statement by a minister who should encourage and support students in their efforts to get the best out of their talents. She should be helping those students instead of fighting them. I do not know whether the old PvdA mentality will come up again to punish ambition and hard work with discouragement, but instead of a minister of upliftment, we are dealing here with a minister who presents himself as minister of flatterment and colonisation. I am also devastated by the fact that the minister is stuck in the frame that many MBOs are doing badly in HBO. According to the minister, a lot of MBOs would fall out if they went to HBO training. In fact, that's not true: Mbos do better than havists. The undertone of the minister is also: those mbos should not do it. Does the Minister agree with me that dissuading students from wanting to go higher is not the solution to the increase in the number of students in HBO and in university? Is the Minister prepared to step out of the wrong frame that MBOs would do badly in HBO? Does it also consider that the government should promote the flow of students rather than discourage them? If she agrees, what will she do to promote this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Meenen refers to an interview with me in the Volkskrant last Saturday. There is a sentence highlighted and placed on the front page. I can imagine that if you read that sentence without context, it gets agitated, but might also be wondered in the sense of: what is that supposed to mean? I very much agree with Mr Van Meenen that talent must be able to develop and that young people must be able to get the best out of themselves. We should also encourage this. Anyone who puts the sentence in the context of the article can read that I do object to the undervalue of vocational education and to choosing a university education only on the basis of status. The student should make a conscious choice, which is not motivated by dedain for vocational education but by a positive consideration. I am very, very attached to the fact that students can develop and do further training. That is why I announced in the Volkskrant the arrival of an associate degree. That's an education for mbos who go to HBO and who don't want to do a four-year training course right away, but a two-year-old. This will enable them to enter the labour market, but they can also continue to study in order to obtain full HBO training. So at the end of that paragraph in the interview it said: more important than choosing the highest status level, I think that every student ends up in the right place. This calls for greater differentiation in higher education. That's what we're gonna do. That is also exactly the solution I would like to suggest to Mr Van Meenen to enable a brilliant career in higher education for MBOs, havists, vwo'ers, in short everyone who has the right papers. I'd like to give it to everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u3	The Minister would have done better if she had said here that that interview was a huge mistake. It gives the wrong impression in the country and in all those young people who want to pursue their ambition. The Minister talks about 'dedain for vocational training'. There's no basis for that at all. These students are at the VWO, the preparatory scientific education. So we should not be surprised if these students go to scientific education after vwo. They have the capabilities for that; that has been established. Even worse, I think what the article says is happening to the MBOs; of course I have read the article. According to the article, an associate degree is clearly intended as something for those miserable mbos, who do not get the full HBO, but can still get a diploma after two years. That is the tone of this article, which over and over confirms the frame that MBOs would not do well in higher vocational education. However, all the figures, including those of the Central Bureau of Statistics, show that MBOs are doing well. Of course more falls out in the first year, but taken over the entire training, from the moment of registration to four or five years later, more MBOs than havists get an HBO diploma. Let's really stop here and confirm that frame over and over again. That's my biggest problem. Does the Minister waive what she has said about this in this article? Is it prepared to look at ways to promote flow rather than discourage it? After all, it is not just about the difference between HBO and university and between MBO and HBO. Also in secondary education the flow between for example vmbo and havo stagnates under this cabinet. I also have a question about the improper use of the numerus fixus. We see the number of courses with a numerus fixus coming out of the ground as mushrooms. In my view, this is only intended to apply an improper form of selection. I wonder how the Minister sees that. Is she willing to look into that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u4	The words on the MBO are entirely on Mr Van Meenen's behalf. I disagree. I'm not saying that MBOs shouldn't be in further education or that they couldn't do it all. That's what I'm fighting. I'm resisting the idea that you only have a full degree if you have a university degree. That's why I invest a lot more in the MBO, make sure you can also follow the MBO routes for excellent craftsmanship and make it easier to flow to the HBO. This may be a full-time training course, but also a two-year training course for those who may want to combine it with work. It also applies to the flow from HBO to wo. At the same time, I would like to encourage VWO students who go to university to consider whether they really want to go to university. There are also students who are more professionally oriented. Ten years ago, more than 15% of vwo'ers went to HBO. That's 11% now. We know the fallout's gotten bigger all over the place. So I do not decide what needs to be done, but I do want people to make a conscious choice. This is all part of the conscious flow that we are trying to stimulate at all levels of education.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u5	Conscious flow is very good, but in the interview the minister subconsciously puts away the MBOs and pretends that vwo'ers do not make a balanced choice. That's what I'm resisting. The Minister now puts words in my mouth as if I were the one who discourages mbo'ers. It shouldn't be any crazier. It's the minister who does that. I ask her once again whether she wishes to explicitly distance herself from the statement that MBOs should be able to go to HBO.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u6	I didn't say mbos shouldn't be allowed to go to HBO, so I can't distance myself from it either. I note that we are in agreement. We both think mbos should be able to flow through. However, I would like to add that MBOs have full education. They have a very good education in the Netherlands. If they choose to go into the labour market, perhaps to continue studying twice or part-time later, then so can I. I'm not gonna tell them they only have a weak diploma, because they don't have one.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u7	No one's talking about the MBO not being good. It's about the signal that the minister is sending out. During the introduction of the loan system, the Minister said that she does not care if MBOs do not study because of the loan system. This weekend, the Minister has made it even more colourful: she is bothered by the fact that everyone wants to go higher. We are talking about the Minister of Education, who should encourage people to develop. Is the Minister now in the process of promoting fewer people to study, or is she trying to advance our society and strengthen the knowledge-based economy with highly educated students?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u8	I want to encourage anyone who can and will to continue their studies, including in higher education. However, I distance myself from the idea that it is merely a question of quantity. So I do not want to set standards and say that it is not enough if we have less than 50% higher educated people. It must be about the quality and the education that suits a student or student. In this we can improve a lot, also in view of the number of students who fail in the first year and do not return.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u9	The last report of the Education Inspectorate states that Dutch students have a low motivation, compared to students abroad. These students are now getting the signal from the Minister of Education that wants to go higher but is something disturbing. The Minister's explanation is that a sentence can sometimes be removed from the context in a larger article. Does the Minister not agree with me that, given the fact that all these students have received this signal from a Minister of Education, it is very easy to explain that in the context of an article? Does she not agree with me that she can simply say: "Sorry, students of the Netherlands. It was a clumsy statement I shouldn't have made. It's just about ambition and getting everything out of yourself."?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u10	I also point out in that article that I want education to improve, education to become more intensive, that we expect more from students and that they also receive more guidance. I expect incoming students, especially in higher education, from others and from MPs, to read the whole article except for an introductory note on the front page. Those who have done so can have no doubt about it: I am committed to accessibility, I want to counter the undervalue of vocational education and I think it is more important that every student should come to the right place than that the highest level of status should be chosen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-4.u11	Thank you for your answers and for coming to the Chamber.
