ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-12.u1	Mr. Chairman. I'm trying to keep it short. In his letter of 5 June last, the Minister announced the intention to offer Turkish imams language courses at the expense of the State when they come to work in Dutch mosques. The VVD considers that totally undesirable. Language courses are and remain a responsibility of the Turkish community itself. The costs should not be passed on to the Dutch taxpayer. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in his letter of 3 June 2015, the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment indicated, inter alia, that: a reference to the German approach that he wishes to examine with Diyanet the possibilities to offer courses in Dutch to imams broadcast from Turkey to the Netherlands;]] [[noting that the government is in agreement with the Moroccan Government in order to promote the integration of Moroccan Dutch;]] [[Whereas this may lead to unwanted influence and segregation;]] [[Whereas it is strange to treat imams differently from other Turkish nationals in the light of integration and that this also does not comply with the principle of separation of church and state;]] [[Whereas Diyanet is an organisation whose main aim is to strengthen Turkey's ties with Turkey abroad;]] [[calls on the Government not to offer or finance courses in Dutch for imams sent from Turkey or Morocco to the Netherlands, to cease cooperation with Diyanet and not to make themselves dependent on the countries of origin for integration,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Potters and Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32824-96]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-12.u2	I understand that the VVD colleague has difficulty with the funding, but the motion goes much further. If implemented, the Minister cannot deal with communities associated, for example, with Diyanet. I would like to draw attention to the social problems of radicalisation and the ambitions of the Integrated Approach Action Programme which call for Jihadism to shape and organise this cooperation. This motion will make sure that all this is not possible in due course. How is Mr Potters going to solve that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-12.u3	In my opinion, the motion is clear and it is not wise to establish a real strong relationship with Diyanet, especially when it comes to integration in the Netherlands. That really is our responsibility. We should not depend on such foreign organisations for our integration. In any case, we are very reluctant and, if we can, we prefer not to have cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-12.u4	Mr Potters says 'if possible', but the motion explicitly states that there should be no cooperation. Mr Potters also knows that Turkish nationals are not obliged to learn the Dutch language. They're exempt from that by treaty. The Minister is trying to arrange for these people to get to know Dutch culture, speak the language and contribute to countering the social problem of radicalisation. This is done in accordance with the plan that the VVD has also accepted, namely the plan to tackle jihadism and radicalisation. This motion makes all this impossible, because it is much more explicit than the explanatory statement suggests.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-12.u5	In my view, this motion does not go so far as to stand in the way of jihadism and radicalisation. I think it is important that we send a clear signal that we should work on Dutch integration in the Netherlands and that we should not be dependent on foreign organisations for the integration of the Turks in the Netherlands. Mr Marcouch is right that there is no obligation under the association agreement to learn the Dutch language, but I think it is very wise to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-12.u6	Mr. Chairman. I have two motions from the PVV side. For all those who have difficulty with Mr Potters' and Mrs Karabulut's motion, I myself made a very brief one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Minister of SZW intends to implement language courses for imams in cooperation with Turkish organisations in the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas this is not the task of the public authorities;]] [[calls on the Government to abandon this plan,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Graaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32824-97]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-12.u7	Should the consideration prevent the parties from voting in favour, I am prepared to take the recital out and amend the motion. For the second motion, I would remind you of September 2010. Then Mr Cohen, Mr Pechtold, Mrs Sap and Mr Roemer tabled a motion to prevent Islamisation from being a policy objective. We have now seen worldwide what happens if you do nothing against Islamization. That's why I reversed the motion. It's like this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas Islam is inherently intolerant and exclusive and thus hinders the integration of different population groups;]] [[Whereas those who have come to the Netherlands from elsewhere, as well as their children and children, from Dutch taxpayers and the Dutch government have always been given generous opportunities to contribute to society;]] [[Whereas measures, and in particular those that support cooperation with Islamic organisations, will lead to further segregation and unequal treatment of people;]] [[calls on the government to make de-Islamicisation an important objective of policy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members De Graaf and Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32824-98]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-12.u8	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands has an acceptance problem. That is evident from the motions that have been tabled. That's why I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is an increasing trend in cases of discrimination;]] [[Whereas there are more people who should accept integrated people than there are people who should still be integrated;]] [[Whereas participation and integration are impossible without acceptance;]] [[calls on the government to carry out a recurring investigation into the acceptance of the Dutch population towards Dutch people with a migrant background in order to be able to monitor their acceptance levels in the Netherlands on a permanent basis,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32824-99]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-12.u9	I tabled a motion this morning during the VAO on anti-democratic groups following the investigation of Motivation. I've asked the Minister to apologize. The Minister has indicated that he does not want to do so, despite the fact that the Director of Motivation said that the Minister should not have published the investigation and that he has put a stigma on the Turkish-Dutch population. Why doesn't the Minister just apologize?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-12.u10	I like the motion very much and I think you have a point. We have a growing problem: there is a gap between all kinds of groups. But does your motion also mean that the acceptance level among Dutch people, regardless of their background, should also be investigated?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-12.u11	That's what happened in the past. When we talk about acceptance, we talk about mutual acceptance. This is based on the principles and fundamental rights in our Constitution. Those are indeed leading. It is not about one-sided acceptance, but about mutual acceptance, where we need to know the values and standards in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-12.u12	So you ask the Minister to consider how groups stand against each other. Whether they are groups with a migrant background or not, they are also people with a migrant background. There should be an investigation into how things stand, so that we can move forward with everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-12.u13	I understand Mrs Karabulut's point. The point is that in the past a lot of research has been carried out into the things that they have just addressed. There is already a lot of information on this. But what we would like to add to this whole discussion is that it has to come from both sides. When we talk about integration, we have been saying for 20 years that it has to come from both sides. But we've been doing it one-sidedly for 20 years. We really want it to take place the other way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-12.u14	I will continue on the same subject of acceptance that has to come from both sides. In the AO I mentioned the percentages in Koran, Suras and Hadith about Judaism hate, infidel hatred and the orders to mainly war, murder, decapitate unbelieving Jews, gays and ungratefuls. These are high percentages. This means that others are not accepted from Islam. Then why does Mr Kuzu only focus on the receiving society, rather than on those who have come here and are given this ideology every Friday at the mosque?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-12.u15	Because Mr. De Graaf has been doing that from the other side for ten years. He also speaks of'mutual acceptance', which is a step forward for the PVV, although I wonder if Mr Wilders is allowed to do so, but when he talks about percentages, I ask him to pass it again. Your reality is not at all the reality as described in the Qur'an as I read it. Mr De Graaf tries time and time again to create an image of people in our society who are criminals, who would like to decapitate people. Mr De Graaf's statement that a million people in this country would be criminals is not correct at all, and I am totally against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-12.u16	Mr Kuzu does not have to distance himself from his own lies, because I did not say those things.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-12.u17	Try talking through the chairman, but try not to accuse each other of lies. Because then there will be no end to the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-12.u18	You should have intervened with Mr Kuzu, Mr President. He stands here preaching lies and doing taqiyya.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-12.u19	Listen. Just ask Mr Kuzu a question and do it through me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-12.u20	If he answers, I'll make it a personal fact. Things are happening here that just can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-12.u21	Just try asking that question first!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-12.u22	My follow-up question is the following, in addition to the personal fact that I am making about the previous remarks made by Mr Kuzu, who is very proud at the moment. Fine. Enjoy it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-12.u23	Your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-12.u24	What Mr Kuzu is showing here is parliamentary jihad. I'm not comfortable with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-12.u25	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-12.u26	Why does Mr Kuzu not accept that I simply mention facts? He knows these facts. If he denies those facts, he's gonna do taqiyya. Because those facts are in writing in the writings he reads. Why does he deny these facts?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-12.u27	Mr President, through you, I say that Mr De Graaf is trying to profile himself as a theologian, as a Islamist, but he does so from a certain feeling, a certain sentiment, which is full of hatred. That's not Islam like I know it. Then he can make personal facts...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-12.u28	Try to answer the question. I have asked Mr De Graaf to ask a question and I ask you to confine yourself to your answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-12.u29	His question is: am I working on a parliamentary jihad here? If I were to do so, Mr De Graaf would be engaged in a parliamentary crusade.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-12.u30	Mr De Graaf asked if he could make a personal statement. Of course he can.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-12.u31	Again about the remark about hate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-12.u32	You feel addressed in person.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-12.u33	I feel like I'm being addressed in person. Mr Kuzu adds something to me. In addition, the jihads were still a reaction to the crusades.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-12.u34	Recorded in the Acts. I give the floor to Mrs Karabulut. Mr De Graaf, I hear you want to make a correction. You can do that through the correction website of the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-12.u35	Mr. Chairman. Some of the debates would almost make you think that the hatred of it is dripping out in society and that polarisation is growing. That may be the case sometimes, but fortunately I am sticking to all the examples and all the colleagues here in this Chamber who stand for that one society. We have our rule of law. People who preach hate, we have to deal with. For people who want to take away democracy, human rights in a violent way, we have our instruments. Let us then make sure that we close this growing gap instead of widening it further. Having said that, I'm filing one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment's intention not to carry out a follow-up study on Turkish organisations and movements in the Netherlands (TRSOs);]] [[noting that the management and financial flows of these organisations are sometimes unclear and parallel societies are present;]] [[calls on the government to undertake further research into the (foreign) management and financial flows of TRSOs in the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Karabulut and Mr Potters. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32824-100]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-12.u36	Then I have one more question for the Minister, about the failed research among Turkish-Dutch young people, which the Minister admitted last week: sorry, mistake, I should not have done like this. I read that the Research Office, Motivaction, gave the following advice to the Minister and his officials: do not publish that research, do more detailed research before coming out with it. I remember that day, like almost everyone else. There was a lot of news about it, and my question is: why did the Minister take this advice in the wind?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-12.u37	Mrs Karabulut indicated that the Minister had admitted that it was a mistake and that he apologized. I couldn't read that anywhere. He said it was regrettable. Does Mrs Karabulut think that Minister Asscher should officially apologize to the Turkish-Dutch youth he has stigmatized?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-12.u38	I think that the Turkish-Dutch young people have now risen up in response to this not too handy action by the Minister and have let the Minister know very well how they feel about it and how they stand in it. What I would particularly like to ask the Minister is not so much that he apologizes. I understand he's gotten into the conversation. I would particularly like to call on him to do his job better. Frankly, I have been wondering more and more recently where this minister's integration policy is going. Does the Minister still have his affairs in order? I would like him to focus on that, and on all the positive forces that exist in our society, who really want to make something of that living together. I can elaborate on this, but let me leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-12.u39	That's not what a VAO's really meant for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-12.u40	That's right. Mrs Karabulut has me on her side when she points out that there are a lot of questions about this minister's integration policy. But can I conclude and conclude that the SP does not wish to receive any excuses from this minister towards Turkish-Dutch youth?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-12.u41	I would like to hear the Minister say to the Chamber and these young people that it has not been good and that he should not have done so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-12.u42	The best excuses are sincere excuses and not forced excuses, but that aside. I regularly disagree with Mrs Karabulut, including in the field of integration, but I would like to join in congratulating her on her initial remarks and on her call for fundamental rights, tolerance and mutual respect and understanding.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-12.u43	I have just skipped Mr Heerma by mistake, but I understand now that he does not want to speak. Mr Van Weyenberg does not agree with that. This will then end the Chamber's term of office. The minister stands up; he states that he can answer directly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-12.u44	Mr. Chairman. Mr Potters' motion and Mrs Karabulut's motion for a resolution 96 gives the impression that there is a huge danger of separation between the Church and the State and that far-reaching plans are under way. What's going on? Turks are not required to settle in and Turkish imams are therefore not required to settle in. Imams from countries outside the EU and countries without an association agreement are. I think it is in the interests of our society as imams who come to the Netherlands, know what society they end up in and speak the Dutch language. That is why, at the request of the VVD, I asked our embassy in Ankara for language courses and information about Dutch society and other possibilities not to be made available via the website. That information and courses are available for every Turk and therefore also for imams. That costs money; everything costs money. Now it seemed to me that it was right to ask Diyanet, who we know is sending imams to the Netherlands, to ask the imams who send it to the Netherlands, to make particular use of the opportunity to learn the Dutch language and to learn about the Dutch society in which they will work. The motion by Mr Potters and Mrs Karabulut states that this should not, in fact, be allowed to end any cooperation with Diyanet and that the government should not make itself dependent on the countries of origin for integration. I very much agree with the latter, so I agree with that request. However, I do not think the first and the second are logical, because you then make a distinction between Turks who are not required to enter, but who are free to use the integration material, and imams who would not be allowed to use the VVD and the SP. I'm dissuading the motion. The same applies to Mr De Graaf's motion on item No. 97. Although the text is a little more concise, I do not agree with him. I would also advise against the motion by Mr De Graaf and Mr Wilders on part No. 98 which calls on the government to make de-Islamicisation an important policy objective. That is not a policy objective. People can know for themselves what religion they profess; if they comply with Dutch law and rules, that is an individual choice. It is an individual choice of which party you want to belong to and what faith you adhere to as long as you allow someone else that freedom. The latter must certainly be the case, but it seems obvious to me that people are allowed to choose for themselves. In Mr Kuzu's motion to item No. 99 the government is asked to investigate the acceptance of the Dutch population towards Dutch people with a migrant background. He brings this as if this is something incredibly new. I have some very good news for him: we are already doing this. The next time this is investigated, will be in January 2016 when the research into the views of, for example, Turkish-Dutch youngsters will also appear. I'd advise against the motion, because she's unnecessary. Mrs Karabulut and Mr Potters asked for a follow-up study of the TRSOs in the motion on item 100. I have already said that we have done a lot of research on this, but that this does not produce satisfactory results. This does not mean that the results are not satisfactory, but that we are not getting much further. It is therefore better to appeal to those involved in their role in integration and to take steps in this area than to carry out research. I advise against this motion. Finally, Mr Kuzu and Mrs Karabulut asked me again to address the question of Motivation research. When the second-opinion study of the Motivation study appeared, I indicated that the research is raging and that this is regrettable. I have also said that I am not the sponsor and not the conductor of that investigation, and for that reason I cannot or will not do much more than I have said about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-12.u45	Mr Van Weyenberg was the first to report for an interruption, but Mr Kuzu is given priority.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-12.u46	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is a very weak answer from the Minister. As a result of this investigation, the Minister expressed an opinion. The director of Motivation says that this news has become and has been made so big in the media by the Minister and that this has given Turkish-Dutch youngsters a stigma. I really think it is a very low self-reflective capacity that the Minister does not address his own role at all here. That is why my question is again why the Minister is constantly doing so. Every time the Minister casts a stigma here, we will just stand here to address him. However, the opinion would be according to: never does...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-12.u47	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-12.u48	...but never again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-12.u49	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-12.u50	What is this shameful view that I have made? It follows from a survey that 90% of Turkish-Dutch young people would be sympathetic to IS. I have mentioned that outcome as very disturbing. I would be incredibly surprised if someone in this Chamber would not call those results very disturbing, because they are very disturbing statements. Then it turns out that the investigation is rattling. So we don't know what the real opinion is. This is regrettable, not for Mr Kuzu, but for young people who suffer from it. In the future, too, I will call it very disturbing when I see an investigation that shows that 90% of the people support IS. In the same response, I said that I wanted a qualitative follow-up study to be carried out. After all, there were also absurdities in that investigation. That qualitative follow-up is now under way. The results will be available in October and January. Then we can speak further on the basis of the data we then have.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-12.u51	The Minister's first reaction was that it was very disturbing, but one day after that he said that he did not recognize himself in the results of the investigation and that more clarification was needed. If a minister makes a mistake, wouldn't he have to admit that he didn't handle it handy? That is not just what we say; that is what the director of Motivation says, and that is what Turkish-Dutch young people say. The Minister has absolutely no self-reflective capacity, and I do not think that this is appropriate to the role of a minister. Too bad. It's unfortunate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-12.u52	Mr Kuzu makes all kinds of observations on his own account. It's possible. I myself indicated why I reacted in this way. I find such an outcome very disturbing. Mr Kuzu did not say whether he found that very disturbing. I keep assuming that this is the case. Then I said that I find it regrettable that the investigation has turned out to rattle. I have also said in my very first reaction that there is a need for more qualitative follow-up research, because a survey cannot tell what the backgrounds of a statement are. But: yes, I found it very disturbing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-12.u53	Mr. Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-12.u54	I'm making a personal statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-12.u55	A personal fact is very brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-12.u56	If 90% of Turkish-Dutch young people were to be IS-sympathetic, that is not the case, then I would find that very disturbing. But that is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-12.u57	Good. That's noted for the Acts. I give the floor to Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-12.u58	I do appreciate it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-12.u59	I continue to look back with very mixed feelings at the whole process of that investigation; let me put it mildly. I asked for a factual account at that time. That fact story didn't say that Motivation advised the Ministry and the client not to release the investigation. It is said, however, that this advice has been given. That's what's in Motivation's letter. Is this true? If that's true, why didn't it say so in the answer I asked?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-12.u60	I've given the facts story as complete as possible. I mentioned all the facts that were known to me. So I don't think it's right. If there are any sources showing that it is, I will report it to the Chamber immediately. It sounds to me like someone who's done the research that another research firm says isn't very good and then tries to shift responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-12.u61	I think this is an important question. I think the Minister agrees. So I'd like to know what's going on here, so that the facts are right. I'd like to know if there's any new information. I'm asking the Minister if he's willing to do something about that. The reason I came forward earlier was because the Minister spoke about Diyanet in response to Mr Potters' and Mrs Karabulut's motion. Did I understand him correctly that he also made or will make the same offer to other Turkish religious organisations that have imams in the Netherlands? This under the motto of: equal monks, equal hoods.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-12.u62	In reply to the first question, I say that I have made that a fact story. I don't tend to make this again, because I really did it to the best of my ability. I'm sure the discussion's gonna go on for a while. Then I come to the second question. Of course, it's not about Diyanet. I am concerned that people who come here have knowledge of Dutch society, so that they can do their job better. If they speak the language and know the norms and values of that society, they should also play a role here. Others must therefore be given the opportunity to learn the language and to do it. Diyanet is currently the main channel from imams to the Netherlands. Again, it would have been better if imams trained in the Netherlands would serve the mosques we are talking about from their own imam education. As long as this is not the case, it is in our interest to speak the language and to know the country.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-12.u63	Maybe it's okay to go back to the Minister's letter. In this he indicates that with Diyanet he is going to look at the possibility to offer courses in Dutch to imams sent from Turkey to the Netherlands. That's an active attitude. So it's being looked at together. It gets paid and people make sure it happens. What Mrs Karabulut and I really object to is that the Dutch State is actively organising and paying for this, while the Turkish community could do very well on its own. It is a very different issue if there is something that others and themselves can use. It is about whether the Dutch government should have such an active attitude to let Diyanet play this role here, and then financially supported. Or should this come from the community itself? Do we really have to do that with Diyanet, knowing the background of this organization?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-12.u64	I am pleased with this question, because now we are approaching each other a little more. The question conceals the fact that Mr Potters has less objection to it if the need comes from Turkish society itself. I am concerned that we have an interest in having people who come here speak the language and know the country. Then it is useful to meet with an organization that sends people here to take care of this. I agree with Mr Potters that we do not finance this. I think that's excellent. In Germany, 90% or 95% of the costs are not borne by Germany either. We have an interest in letting people who come here know what country they come to work in and speak the language. So we know how to find each other better than I thought when I saw the recitals and the text of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-12.u65	Now you're really saying something different than in your letter. The letter expresses an active attitude to offer these courses together at the expense of the Dutch State. Well, that's different now. However, my question remains. Do we really have to do this with Diyanet, knowing what kind of organization this is? As far as we are concerned, this is preferably not the case. It would be best if it were offered from the Turkish-Dutch community. Let us not be naive in our choice for the organization that is going to help us offer these courses. I would ask this Minister to be very cautious in this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-12.u66	It does not appear in the letter "at the expense of the Dutch State." It doesn't say in principle that you couldn't help. And yes, an active attitude is needed. After all, we have an interest in people who play an important role in the lives of many young people and who come to work here, know the country and speak the language. This is a need of society and of young people themselves. If you make a deal about that, you're not part of it yet. Nor does it mean that you have to be naive towards an organisation that is indeed under the leadership of the Turkish government. Only, we know that this organization sends imams to the Netherlands and we have an interest in the fact that at least that organisation is working to ensure that it is people who speak Dutch and know society.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-12.u67	The Minister says it is a need of Turkish-Dutch society. If these groups can find each other, I don't see any role for the minister. However, the Minister simply does not want to see that there is also a political element involved, namely political influence. My question concerns my own motion. The minister says he doesn't want to do a follow-up, because he's never done that before. The Minister has close contacts with all these organisations from parallel society to allies. He's very good at working with that. Then how can he not be able to explain with them what the ties, the financial flows and all that sort of thing are? Then why wouldn't that work?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-12.u68	First of all, I should like to comment on Mrs Karabulut's comment. Of course, I see the political dimension associated with the discussion on how to deal with imams coming here. I also believe that you must be very careful not to spoil the separation of Church and State. However, something else is going on here. It is about people who are not subject to integration, but who are in our interest to know the language and society. In my opinion, it is in the interests of Dutch society to make agreements on this, no more and no less. We've had an extensive literature study done. In my opinion, both Mrs Karabulut and I were not very enthusiastic about the results. I therefore believe that further research will yield little. That's my judgment. That's what I told the Chamber last September. I have no reason to judge that differently on the basis of Mrs Karabulut's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-12.u69	I'm gonna ask you again. The minister has a department, he has contacts and they're his allies. He can get the information, can't he? I'm telling you, he doesn't have to hire another research firm or anything. It's that I'm a little busy, because otherwise I might be able to help minister with this. This is gonna work, right? I would like to ask the Minister again to take a serious look at this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-12.u70	The motion states that "the government requests that further investigations be carried out into the (foreign) management and financial flows of the TRSOs in the Netherlands." That sounds different from: shall we make a call? Mrs Karabulut is offering to help us with the request to provide more information? That last one, no problem! That's what my letter says. I also addressed the TRSOs and said: the more transparent, the better. Then you also have a much better picture of where the money comes from and what your agenda is. There's something really different in the motion. It states that "the government requests that a follow-up study be carried out on the "foreign" management and financial flows of the TRSOs in the Netherlands." I understand the need for it, but I don't think it's gonna do much good. That's why I'm dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-12.u71	I thank the Minister for the answers. We'll proceed immediately with the next VAO.
