ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u1	Mr. Chairman. Following the report, the D66 Group has two other points of interest: the Dutch position on travel data and the Benelux call to link databases. My group believes it is important that the Dutch position is clearly expressed in Riga. That view is that the Netherlands will not collect travel data from everyone, but only from those who are in the sights of the search and intelligence services. This is important because today a piece of the European Commission has been leaked which is contrary to the European position. Can the Minister say whether we are indeed talking about a proposal from the European Commission that will be discussed in the JHA Council tomorrow? On this point, I also ask for a ruling from the Chamber. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Calls on the Government, at the JHA Council, to explicitly state that the Netherlands is not in favour of unfocused collection of 42 types of data from all air passengers, that the data retention requirements of the European Court of Justice are marginal and that EU-PNR requires a data protection directive to ensure effective data protection;]] [[calls on the Government to actively inform the Chamber and not to take irreversible steps without prior consultation of the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Schouw and Mr Ellemeet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32317-264]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u2	Finally, a motion on linking databases by the Benelux countries. We were very surprised by this agreement between three ministers. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in the context of combating jihad travellers, the President of the Benelux proposes to link up databases of the three countries;]] [[calls on the Government to automatically share and link information from databases within the Benelux countries to the Chamber in advance, informing the Chamber about the way in which information is exchanged, the safeguards for correct application, the monitoring of the effectiveness of the data exchange and the risks of data leaks,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Schouw and Mr Ellemeet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32317-265]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u3	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for answering my group's written questions. My group has asked the cabinet to respond to the recent statements made by Commissioner Jourová. All points to the fact that it seems to want to abuse the recent terrorist attacks in order to establish a European Public Prosecutor's Office. On 21 January last, she literally said in the European Parliament: 'I'm going to have to send out letters to the individual national parliaments and explain why we need the EPPO'. The Minister says that Ms Jourová is fully free to engage in a dialogue with national parliaments on the European Public Prosecutor's Office. The Minister therefore welcomes the fact that she ignores the yellow card of the national parliaments and tries to push through her will on this point. Speaking of democracy! A question from my group has not been answered. We asked the Minister to respond to the recent statement by his liberal ally Mr Verhofstadt. It has indicated that the European Union must move towards a single European CIA. The PVV asked the Minister whether he wanted to make it clear in Riga that he could not agree with this and whether he would like to distance himself from this dangerous statement. We would like to receive a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u4	Mr. Chairman. We have had a written consultation on the informal meeting of the JHA Council, which will focus on the European approach to terrorism. I note that the government itself does not come up with initiatives for making new proposals or taking measures. The government has promised that, in the case of potentially far-reaching proposals from the European Commission or from other Member States, consultation with the Chamber will always take place before taking a position. I assume that this also applies to the European Commission's new proposal to retain 42 categories of aircraft passenger data, including the food preference. How's the Minister handling that? Mr Schouw has just tabled a good motion on this. On one important point, however, there can be a splash on top of it, namely the recognition of the problem of radicalisation. How to deal with signals from family members and aid workers that a person radicalizes and may possibly leave for Syria, for example? How do other countries deal with this? Are there successful anti-radicalisation programmes? What can we learn from this? That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Netherlands is increasingly dealing with radicalised persons;]] [[Whereas knowledge of deradicalisation in the Netherlands is limited;]] [[having noted that in other European countries, for example in the United Kingdom, there is a wider presence of this expertise;]] [[calls on the government to take a strong look at the approach abroad and to adopt successful examples when developing deradicalisation programmes;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Van Nispen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32317-266]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u5	Mr. Chairman. It is good that we are also looking at how best to combat and tackle extremism and terrorism at European level. In this context, we have been working for some time in the Netherlands, even when it comes to travel data. Both Mr Schouw and Mr Van Nispen spoke about this. We have found a solution in the Netherlands. Without creating a database, we're still gonna find out the data of specific individuals. I think that's a good solution. It is worn almost Chamberwide, at least very wide in the Chamber. Only the Minister's written answer to my group's question as to whether it is being expressed in Europe remained a little vague. Can the Minister confirm that we have an agreement on this in the Chamber and that this is also the position that the Minister will take on behalf of the Netherlands with his European colleagues?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u6	I honestly do not understand Mr Recourt's reassurance. If a large number of European countries want to have the large holiday register with the 42 data that will be collected from everyone, we in the Netherlands may be forced to participate. What does the Labour Party say if we are forced to participate?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u7	I'd have a hard time with that. Luckily, it's not that far. Before then, the Chamber is about ten more moves. By the time it becomes concrete, we can also indicate this. Now is the time point in the negotiations that we need to reflect the Dutch position. We have already discussed the Dutch position here. I assume that the Minister will, I hope, be able to hear that from him too, raise that position in Brussels.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u8	Is it not a matter of concern to Mr Recourt that we were able to read in an English newspaper this morning what the European Commission is planning and that this was probably also discussed with the Minister of the Interior in Paris, when we have not heard from this minister until today?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u9	I'm not standing here for nothing, because I read the papers too. I see that Europe seems to be using a different line than the Netherlands. I'm not sure. That is why I would like to hear an explanation from the Minister. I can imagine that Europe is broadly choosing the solution we have chosen as the Netherlands, namely achieving the goal but with a less far-reaching means.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u10	I'm gonna take a look at the minister. He says he's ready. I give the floor to the Minister for Security and Justice to respond to the motions tabled and to answer some of the questions raised.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u11	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the honourable Members for the questions they have put. The impulses that came out of it can be taken at the end of the afternoon on our trip to Riga. On Mr Schouw's question about the position of travel data, I can be very brief. I can clearly recall from the debate on 4 September that the cabinet indicated that it was able to live with the chosen position. Mr Schouw was there, because I often looked at him. We have also repeated this in the debate on Paris. We are now in the process of creating a technical facility for this. Mr Recourt referred to this as well. We also informed the Chamber by letter. We have exchanged once again that we are in the process of creating a facility that, within existing legislation, allows for a matching between data already available and travel data. These are travel data from those who, as expected or in the opinion of the services, could be part of a jihadist network. The limitation that has been introduced following the debate is that not everyone's travel data is used, but only those on whom there is evidence that they are involved in terrorism. The cabinet can agree with that line. That position is also known to my colleagues. I repeat that we can deal with this within existing legislation. There are different positions in the European debate. My colleagues from Germany, France, the United Kingdom and Italy stand for this. They also know my position and the position that the Netherlands occupies and which I will take up repeatedly in the informal consultation that is taking place in Riga. I have said once again in the media and in the Chamber that we will not take a step in that debate other than what we have said here in the Chamber. That's the first thing. Secondly, I will not take another step until I have had an exchange of views with the Chamber. That's what I wanted to report. That means I'm going to have the motion in part no. Two hundred and twenty-four may be dissuaded. Besides, I do not know of any leaked proposal. The leaked proposal was not included in the informal meeting either. We will speak with each other in response to the conclusions reached in Paris at the informal meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u12	In this Chamber, the Minister says that he is not aware of any plan by the European Commission to collect 42 types of data, unfocused and of everyone on the plane. This Minister knows nothing about this and it was not discussed at the informal meeting in Paris either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u13	It was not discussed at the informal meeting in Paris, which is also formal, as the Chamber will understand. That is my first point. The second point is that I am not aware of the proposal as such. I do know that the committee is in favour of a number of things. I also know that a number of Member States are in favour of a number of things. We have always called for an orderly dialogue between the three parties: the Council, of which I am a part, the committee and the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u14	I kind of feel like the minister is playing hide-and-seek. Indeed, there is a proposal from the European Commission to request 42 types of data from each aircraft passenger. I would like to ask this Minister one more time: has he ever heard of this and what is he going to do about getting rid of this miserable plan in the trash can?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u15	It has sometimes come to my attention in response to a number of questions that you have asked. We do not have the proposal. But when it's leaked, it'll end up with me at some point. I will say to Mr Schouw in the Council exactly what we agreed to in the debate and what I am now presenting to you. We will simply assess any proposal. The government's approach to the proposals is as we expressed them in the debate. That's our position. I say again that I will not take another step until I have had a discussion with the Chamber. Let me now turn to the Schouw/Ellemeet motion on part No. 265, following the letter I sent on the Benelux countries national database. I would also advise against the adoption of that motion. I sent that letter on 26 January saying that we are exploring whether we can support these proposals. So we'll keep the Chamber informed. It is, in itself, a good point that we are exploring with each other in the Benelux context whether we can connect data we have on jihad travellers even more closely than we are doing now. I'll have breakfast on that with my colleagues tomorrow. I don't think there's much wrong with it, but we're going to explore it further and keep the Chamber informed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u16	I stand up for the interests of Parliament. The Minister makes agreements with the Benelux ministers to link databases. I have to read that in the paper. I think that is a disgrace on the part of Parliament. This minister, who is also largely responsible for privacy and knows how much the Chamber attaches to it, should be actively aware of the fact that, if he makes such agreements, he should inform the Chamber properly? On the subject of the Benelux dossier, would the Minister agree that he will simply actively inform the Chamber about what he is doing in connection with the linking of databases and the automatic exchange of data? We shouldn't read that from the paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u17	I repeat what I just said. I replied to Mr Schouw's question. We have sent a letter on this subject, in which we say 'it is the final sentence 'that...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u18	When did you send that letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u19	January 26th.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u20	After I asked for it through the committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u21	A letter was sent on January 26th.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u22	It says nothing more than that, and that is also very good that we should explore with our partners, including in the Benelux context, how this can support our cooperation in this respect. I think this is a very good thing, and I will, of course, undertake to inform the Chamber in full.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u23	The Minister dissuaded the motion, but in fact I hear him saying he's going to do what's in the motion. Then where did his advice come from?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u24	Because there's something inside that sounds like we'd already decided all that. We don't. I can't make a misunderstanding about that. So I already indicated in the letter that I am doing this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u25	It does not say in the motion that it has already been decided, but that the intention exists.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u26	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u27	And that is obviously also wrong, because the intention does not exist?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u28	The intention exists, but we will simply inform the Chamber. So I do not need to have what I have already said supported once again by a motion, because we are already doing so. This is the so-called "asking for the familiar way," and that, I think, is not good. That's why I'm saying I'm deceiving this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u29	I do not think that this is a well-known way, because I must agree with Mr Schouw that the Minister did not, on his own initiative, inform the Chamber of this matter, although he is positive and intends to do so. It may be an informal council where no decisions are taken, but important preparatory work is being done. The Minister could have informed the Chamber about this and, I think, should have informed the Chamber about it. I would like to point out that the letter sent by the Minister at the request of D66 and supported by us is a vague letter. There's very little detail in that. So we know far too little about this proposal, but the Minister is going to talk about it. I think it is right that we should now call on the Minister, by way of a motion, to inform the Chamber in greater detail and more actively in the future. Apparently, that call is needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u30	By the way, it's not going to be on tomorrow. In this respect, it is not at the heart of this debate either. It will not be discussed as such. Since we always meet our Benelux colleagues, I will discuss the point and I will inform the Chamber, but I do not need this motion, because the letter is clear. I repeat, therefore, that I can discourage the motion. So this is just a proposal from Belgium. We will exchange data better, but we will not create a link. That is just to provide further information on this situation, which was not discussed at the informal JHA meeting tomorrow and the day after tomorrow. I come on my own to Mrs Helder and what she said about the Commissioner's statements on the EPPO. It is the Commissioner's right to take positions and to debate them with Parliament, in so far as it has already taken a position, and with the committees. It is also my job to keep my position sharp and clear, as I have agreed with your Chamber. So I'm sticking to that. From time to time Mrs Helder and others meet me on this subject. I will make no mistake about holding that position. You will see, looking at your rapporteur, what the Chamber thinks of that. I am always very curious about that, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u31	The statements are clear, but it is not about what the Chamber thinks. That's obvious. It is not about what several national parliaments think either, because that is also clear. That's how the yellow card came about. That means that the Commissioner, Mrs Reding, is now simply making Mrs Jourová a step in the right direction, because this proposal has been referred to waste bins by a number of national parliaments, including our national parliament, both by the Second and by the First Chamber. Then it would not be appropriate for the new Commissioner to think with that yellow card in mind: I am going to engage in dialogue with the national parliaments. I would ask the Minister if he would venture a value judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u32	I have not yet seen an amended Commission proposal on the EPPO. The Presidency has changed, and that is why we are going to Riga. We look forward to seeing what the new Presidency will come up with. It is not scheduled for tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, so everyone is just waiting for the national rapporteurs and national parliaments to come up with their positions. We're holding the position I've taken, and I'm not going to deviate from it. I am not publicly expressing the position taken by the Commissioner.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u33	That actually just means there's talk next to each other. The national parliaments have taken a stand and the Commissioner seems to be engaging in a dialogue. I hope she gets the door to her nose.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u34	Okay, that's a statement I'm aware of. I come to Mr Verhofstadt. I haven't heard or seen these words in writing. I always find it difficult to respond to statements if I have not heard or read them myself from the person concerned. I would ask Mrs Helder to send me this document, and I would like to respond. I am therefore grateful to her, because it is an important discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u35	Perhaps Mrs Helder could ask Parliament questions about this. That is the most practical way, because then she can also add the questions she now has.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u36	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u37	Yeah, that's how I can do it. I'll ask Parliamentary questions about it, so the Minister can look forward to it. However, the fact that I have to quote the NRC one more time goes a long way. It's just in the NRC of January 22nd.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u38	I think it would be wise to ask the Minister about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u39	The title is "Verhofstadt: We must go to a European CIA." I'll ask you about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u40	Okay, I'd love to. I look forward to it and will answer the questions adequately. I now come to Mr Van Nispen. We have talked enough about PNR. Then there's still...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u41	The motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-7.u42	The question following the motion. I think that is an important subject. It says exactly what we do, but it is an important subject. I do not wish to make any mistake about the fact that the Court can make a further ruling on this matter, including in this context. Deradicalisation programmes are very important. I do not agree with one point, so perhaps Mr Van Nispen can amend that point. This is about the phrase 'whereas knowledge of deradicalisation in the Netherlands is limited'. If by "limited" you mean that there's always more to it, I'm satisfied. It's not a negative qualification. I'll leave the judgment to the Chamber.
