ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-2.u1	Mr. Chairman. The UWV has a number of important tasks: to determine whether there is a right to unemployment or disability benefit and, if so, to provide payment on time, to carry out re-evaluations, to investigate fraud reports and, not least, to help people get back to work in the event of unemployment or partial incapacity for work. These are tasks in which a good exercise is of vital importance, not least for the people for whom the UWV is there: people who are sick or unemployed and who are therefore faced with a loss of income, people who are in an uncertain situation. They must be able to rely on the UWV, as we all do. After previous reports, the newspapers wrote again this weekend that much would be wrong at the UWV. There would be huge delays. A lot of fraud reports would be waiting for processing. A lot of people would wait for a reintegration path. Another 25,000 people with disability benefits should be re-evaluated. This morning, there was a news article about fighting at the top, about failing IT systems and about failing websites like work.nl and My UWV. Earlier it was written about the often inadequate guidance of older job seekers, a complaint that you also hear on the street or at a birthday party. I'm worried about that. It's also worrying. It's about important tasks. A well-equipped UWV is crucial for a cabinet that, for example, has made it top priority to help people get back to work. Yesterday, the Minister indicated that he would go deeper into the figures and quickly inform the Chamber. That is a start, a necessary start, but that is not the end of it. Does the Minister agree with me that the UWV has an extremely important role to play in the matters I mentioned earlier? Is he satisfied with the way in which the UWV operates, apart from the exact figures on the backlogs to be investigated? Does he know about the discord in the newspaper this morning at the top of the UWV surrounding the automation at UWV? If so, what did he do about it? In case the Minister was not aware of this: how is that possible? What action has the Minister taken in response, for example, to the latest reports this morning?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. The UWV is certainly a very important implementation organisation with a very difficult task. People have had to do a lot of work there with less money in recent years and still do so passionately. With the king I visited the UWV in Groningen to pay attention to the important work that takes place there, there for example for employees of ALDEL. So yes, I'm aware of that role. Am I happy now? You can never say that in general. Last year, in response to previous discussions, we did have a comprehensive report on the level of service provided by the UWV and the appreciation it receives for this. I also shared this with the Chamber in a letter about service provision at UWV. That was not so bad at all, although there were also clearly improvement points. One of these points of improvement is that there should be more room for personal support for older jobseekers. That's why we made money available. We always have to see what we can do better in that. As regards the figures and the discussion on possible delays, I agreed with the Chamber yesterday in a very wide-ranging debate on Mrs Schut's own-initiative paper that I always want to know what the figures are based on and what is going on. Only then can I say whether there is any need for further action. The Chamber agreed. I promised to send a letter next month. Finally, there was something in the newspaper this morning about which I was consulted yesterday by the press. I don't think I'd be happy to do it to the Chamber if I responded to that newspaper report here again. In that newspaper report, on behalf of my spokesperson, it was rightly stated that I did not know the incident that was reported. Well, that's true, isn't it? It is therefore not the case that there is much news between the time it was in the newspaper this morning and the moment we speak now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-2.u3	However, I would like to say a few words about the last point. Not that much has happened since this morning. I assume that the Minister, like me, is very curious about the truth of that statement in the newspaper about the quarrels at the top around the ICT systems. I assume he is curious about the accuracy of the figures on the backlogs that were mentioned last weekend. I assume he's going to go after that and do something to determine the truth of this claim. If there are disagreements at the top that are at the expense of ICT systems, websites and thus of the people for whom the UWV should be ready, he must of course do something.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-2.u4	Sure. At a time when things are happening at such a large organisation that have negative effects on the services that people get, whether it is people at the desk or the quality of digital services, there is reason to do something about it. Then I expect the leadership of UWV to report it to me. I'm just gonna wait and see if there's a problem. There are sometimes arguments in large organisations, perhaps even in an organisation represented here. The point is, you're gonna do a good job in the end. That's not always the case, and that's where you have to pay for the UWV. We'll talk about that then, but I'd also like to lance for the work that the people of the UWV do well. Whether it is about working disadvantages, if there are problems in ICT discussions, we have to pay the UWV for the quality and compliance with the agreements. I will do so on your behalf.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-2.u5	I would like to comment briefly on one of the other points raised by the Minister. I was positive when I heard him say something about the older jobseekers. They have a much more difficult position on the labour market than many other jobseekers. The Minister stressed the importance of personal guidance and indicated that it would be more appropriate to do so. That seems very important to me, because we all know the stories from the newspaper, from birthday parties and on the streets of people who feel ground up in the UWV. They expect help, but they don't get it. I regularly encounter groups of older job seekers who have united themselves in all kinds of network groups that are getting bigger and bigger. They actually fill the gap that arose in personal guidance, taking into account what people really need. If the Minister, like me, is convinced of the importance of this personal guidance, will he think about helping, assisting and facilitating such groups that have jumped into a hole, perhaps along with the UWV?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-2.u6	Sure. These networks are often a much more effective way of getting work than sending out unfocused open applications. That experience has a lot of job seekers. Certainly the older job seekers experience it as a very frustrating activity to always send letters and get zero on the record. You get better results if you allow people to present themselves personally to an employer looking for people. You also get better results if you really guide people, for example through education towards an existing job vacancy. For example, we have developed the bridge-WW. It also works better if you help people build and use a network. Unfortunately, these three things also offer no guarantee, it remains difficult. We still have a lot of work to do in the coming period, but I am very open to looking at what you can further improve in the more personal guidance of the older job seeker.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-2.u7	The article that has been discussed talks about 73,000 fraud reports. According to a response from the UWV, 30% is written off. I know the Minister is going to find out if these figures are correct, but is it true, as the article suggests, that this would be because we are going to amend the Fraud Act, which the VVD is so opposed to?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-2.u8	I don't want to speculate here. There was an article in the newspaper on Saturday, and I agreed with the Chamber yesterday that I will find out very well and send a letter to the Chamber. I am not now going to guess what could be a possible cause of, or what is at the root of, the statement made by the quoted spokesperson. What the Chamber and I have an interest in is that we have an insight into how the UWV's work processes are going. These are very important tasks: helping unemployed people to work, approving people who are sick or disabled, responding in time to fraud reports to detect possible frauds and to do something about them. These tasks are all very important, so important that I am not going to speculate here on a newspaper article that seems to be based on notes I do not now have and therefore cannot give an opinion on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-2.u9	It is a bit of a marvellous interaction between the PvdA chamber member and the PvdA minister, where you sometimes get the idea to tell the PvdA that it is a member of this cabinet. My question is about the fraud reports. The Fraud Act must, of course, be amended in such a way that mistakes are no longer penalised as fraud. However, can the Minister guarantee today that serious fraud reports about serious, real fraud are always taken seriously by the UWV and not disappear into a drawer?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-2.u10	I discussed this with the same questioner in an earlier oral question. Sure, that Fraud Act is there for a reason. It is there to deal with people who cheat and thereby undermine the support for our social security system. As much as we agree that crooked mistakes should not be treated as a major, serious offence and that it is good that income is now automatically offset so that people do not go wrong with it anymore, we agree that you need to fight real fraud.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-2.u11	Isn't there a broader question here, namely whether the UWV has enough resources to solve all this? This is a problem, but also that the UWV is not able to guide WW'ers to work properly, that it does not get people's re-examinations done in the WIA and that now it does not seem to be able to deal with the fraud properly. Isn't it a broader problem, namely that the UWV doesn't have enough resources to actually manage that good guidance? When did the UWV solve these problems properly?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-2.u12	It is certainly true that the UWV has to do a lot of work with limited resources. That is why it partly works with digital services, even though not everyone is enthusiastic about them. However, I would first like to see whether there are delays, as reported in the newspaper, and then whether this is due, if that is the case, to a lack of resources or to other reasons.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-2.u13	I'm surprised the UWV is lagging behind. A spokesperson of the UWV said it himself: it is the result of a political choice. The parties that are now at the forefront of criticizing the UWV, I would like to say that it has been their political choice. If it turns out there's not enough money at the UWV to get rid of those backlogs, does the minister pull the wallet?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-2.u14	I understand the question very well, but I do not want to anticipate it now. I don't think anyone would benefit from me speculating on what to do before we know what the real figures are and what possible causes of possible delays are. If there are delays, I will start talking to the Chamber about possible solutions. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Dat kunnen er vele zijn, waarvan geld er een is.]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-2.u15	Thank you for coming to the Chamber and for your answers, Minister.
