ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Education, Culture and Science and give Mr Van Meenen the floor on behalf of D66 as the first speaker. Speaking time is six minutes. The number of interruptions is up to two. Every interruption we do in two: a question and a follow-up question. I call Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u2	Mr President, I do not want to interrupt Mr van Meenen already, but I have a point of order. Perhaps it would be a good idea to agree that we should have a little more room for interruptions. We started this debate half an hour earlier. That's very nice, but there's something to discuss, I think. It would therefore be very nice if at least we had the opportunity to discuss the matter with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u3	The fact that we started earlier does not say anything about the number of interruptions and speaking time. I understand very well that there must be room and that this is an important debate that everyone has been looking forward to. Let us do it this way: two interruptions, up to three, per group. I would ask Members to be brief and firm on this. I call Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u4	Mr. Chairman. On February 25, almost three months ago, students occupied the Virgin House. Their demands were crystal clear: more participation and more democratic governance; put the emphasis on quality and not on quantity; spend educational money on education and not on real estate. The occupation of the Virgin House did not fall from the sky. A long period preceded that in which students and teachers tried in vain to exert influence on their education, research and education. This is also a symbol of wider development in society. The same could have happened in primary schools and in hospitals. Why? Because the government is getting more and more intrusive and is getting involved in things that it has to stay away from. There must be room for students to make their own choices. Teachers, like many other people in the public sector, want their profession back. D66 is convinced that you control better when you run together. Along with the people for whom your school, your college or your university exists and who are part of it. So with the students and teachers. The instruments of participation in Amsterdam, but in similar situations in other institutions, are not strong enough. As far as my group is concerned, the supervisory board was completely invisible. I don't even know if it's even there. In principle, the key to better participation lies not here in The Hague, but with institutions, teachers and students. At participation councils and training committees. The question is, how strong is that key? Is it paper mache or stainless steel? That is what we are talking about in The Hague. More bildung, involvement and citizenship, said Minister Bussemaker in Buitenhof. That's good, but make those words true. Do not sit on your hands and wait for a cultural change. The University of Amsterdam did not stand in the way of giving participation a stronger role, but it did not happen. I say here that anyone who says that strengthening co-determination and democratisation is a question of cultural change does not really want to strengthen co-determination. More bildung, engagement and citizenship also means that students need time and space to fill this out. What, when and at what rate? Through internships, boards, extra courses and volunteering. This is inconsistent with the return agreements, such as a binding study advice in later years, as we see in Leiden, for example. Furthermore, I mention the expiry of credits and preliminaries, whereby institutions are paid for graduating as soon as possible. With the study advance, D66 provided the right of assent to the main lines of the budget. At the moment we are talking about the details of each institution. Can the Minister indicate whether this process is going well on these institutions and does it keep a finger on the wrist? This right of assent on the main lines of the budget is only an important first step. It is not enough for my group. Participation should also be able to say something about the content of the quality agreement and about mergers and large-scale revisions of the educational offer. This is essential for the quality and supply of education. Does the Minister share the view that students, teachers and researchers should also be given a stronger voice in this? Strengthening participation is not just a matter of formal structures. Students in participation must also have sufficient time, training and facilities. As far as our group is concerned, this should not be paid out of the profiling fund, since participation is not a profile. Does the Minister take this into account in the drafting of the bill that we will receive before the summer? Last year, a D66 motion was adopted to make participation part of the accreditation process. How's this going? In the discussion about the Maagdenhuis we missed the supervisory board. He should play a major role in the real estate magic, the crisis atmosphere and the lack of trust in the administration. The Supervisory Board needs to be more closely linked to what is happening at the university. This can be done by giving students and teachers a stronger voice in the appointment of members of the Supervisory Board. D66 proposes not to appoint one member on a proposal of participation, but half of the number of members. I'd like to hear a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u5	We have been listening to Mr Van Meenen for a while now, who is at least a lot less sure in this debate than in the media, in which he called the occupiers the liberators, who had liberated the Virgin House from the real occupiers, the board of directors. At least that's already a profit. Why does Mr Van Meenen have a whole list of binding study advice and performance agreements that he wants to get rid of, while it was Mr Van Meenen who made a deal with the Minister about cutting €1 billion on student grants less than a year ago? He could've taken care of it all back then, couldn't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u6	I did not repeat my words about the occupation of the Virgin House by the board because I do not like to say things twice. After all, I'm a teacher. I therefore do not have much need to go back to the debate on the study advance with Mr Rog. I'm not talking about it right now because I don't think it has anything to do with it. It is precisely the EUR 1 billion investment that is coming that should allow for all those things that my group wants to improve quality in education.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u7	This is a strange answer. If something had to be arranged when taking away the basic scholarship of students, it would be the rights of the students. That was the opportunity to make a deal on such binding study advice, for example. Where was Mr Van Meenen then and why did he come up with a wish list for the minister when he could have arranged it in the back rooms?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u8	I believe that Mr Rog and the CDA have not been in this kind of negotiations for some time. Otherwise, they would have known you couldn't get everything sorted out. We have regulated the right of assent to a budget. That is a great deal, and that is very important, precisely because a study advance is about money, investment and the places in which it is done. This is about the way of administration and the position of students and teachers within their own university and college. That is what we are talking about and before that the Virgin House has once again been a wake-up call. I didn't need that wake-up call, because I've been awake for years on the subject of participation and governance. I am very pleased that this has happened now and that we can talk about it today, also in the run-up to a bill that the Minister is going to come up with. Mr. Chairman. The university is not a company. It's an academic community. This must also be visible in the establishment of the board. We therefore propose that the Rector Magnificus be the chairman of the Executive Board. This actually applies to all schools, if I may put it that way, because chalking the jacket is crucial for those in charge of an educational and research institution. In Amsterdam, speculation with real estate played a role in the unrest that arose. It's a pattern. If things go wrong, their roots often lie in real estate decisions at the expense of education and research. On the other hand, real estate is of course also needed: lecture halls, workrooms, laboratories, but it must be effective. For this reason, D66 wants participation to be given the opportunity to ask an independent institution for an ex ante test of whether the proposed investment is sensible and what impact it will have on the budget in the future. Then I'll come to the training committees. I will be brief because I know that my colleague Mohandis from the Labour Party will be presenting an excellent proposal. Of course, participation must not only be at the central level, but also at the level of education, because that is where the quality of education comes in. That is why we are calling with the Labour Party for greater control of training committees and faculty councils. Last but not least, the preservation of small studies. Small studies are in danger of disappearing, and in my group's view this is due to far too little cooperation between the VSNU, the cooperating universities. Sub-optimisation per university leads to a flattening of the offer. It's gonna take some direction. Universities aren't gonna do it. We must ensure that studies that are unique in the Netherlands cannot disappear. That is why we want to place the role that the Minister himself did not want to take on. In the end, she must speak the last word in the discussion or a unique study from the Netherlands disappears. I would like to hear her response to that proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u9	Mr Van Meenen quoted a list of things he did not like and he also said that The Hague should not interfere. His group supported the report of the Veerman Committee, which also included Mr Rinnooy Kan, a party colleague of Mr Van Meenen. That report was completely embraced in this Chamber. It was about making more returns, but also more quality, more differentiation, more internationalization, more excellence and so on. Can Mr Van Meenen explain to me exactly what kind of agreements he likes and which he does not like? Or does he abandon the whole report and all the objectives and strategies that have been derived from it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u10	Absolutely not, but I think this makes the crucial difference between the VVD and D66 clear. What is the real return on education? In the VVD concept, efficiency is speed, setting the bar high. D66 says the run-up has to be better. We want to invest in the quality of education and for us quality of education is also academic education, in which, as a result of the performance agreements that the institutions are now under sighing, it is no longer about quality, but about quantity.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u11	I shall leave the definition given by Mr Van Meenen to the full. The agreements and quality issues contained in this report by Veerman are discussed. That's not just about speed. Speed is important, but 80% or 90% is concerned with differentiation, excellence and internationalisation. It's about students who want a little more, students who want to get more out of a year of study, who are ambitious. I would therefore ask Mr Van Meenen to use his own definitions in the bathroom, but not to stick them to other parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u12	It is precisely those valuable elements of the Veerman report that are under pressure as a result of the way in which, for example, the first Rutte cabinet decided to enter into the term "performance agreements," which is understood to mean. Mr Duisenberg will share with me that in the meantime all the institutions, colleges and universities, too, are fully done with the way in which performance agreements are now being looked at.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u13	Mr Duisenberg, you still have two more interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u14	Good chairman, I'll use it like that. So, if I understand correctly, Mr Van Meenen is completely behind 80% to 90% of the agreements. He says about the remaining 10%: I have difficulty with that, because the speed is a little too ambitious for me. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u15	That is too general. I do not know which 10% or 80% or 90% Mr Duisenberg is referring to. However, one of the reasons why, for example, we have contributed to the development of the study advance is that the Veerman report also states that we must invest in higher education, to name but one thing that we fully support.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u16	A prominent party colleague of Mr Van Meenen has contributed to this report and that report has fully embraced the D66 Group. Mr Van Meenen knows that this report also talks about returns. Let me make it clear that that is the 10% I am talking about. The rest is all about quality, excellence and differentiation. Mr Van Meenen knows that the Veerman report also talks about profitability.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u17	Yes, Mr Duisenberg is now presenting Mr Rinnooy Kan as a member of my party who, as a D66 member, has participated in that report. Mr Duisenberg can see that. Fortunately, Mr Rinnooy Can keep these things apart. I think that the Maagdenhuis, and a lot of what we see in the education system, is a sign that it is not only in higher education that the way in which certain aspects of efficiency and performance pressure are looked at is counterproductive and does not improve quality. That's what I'm all about in the end. That's what I've been fighting for my whole life, and I'm still standing for it. Mr Duisenberg can come up with 20 more reports, but this is what I will be defending here. The quality of education needs to be improved, and this is not improved by introducing all kinds of inappropriate, perverse incentives and means of pressure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u18	Let me come back to another aspect of Mr Van Meenen's speech. He is putting democracy at the centre of this process. I share that very much with him. He argues that the last word should preferably lie with the Minister when deciding on the abolition of training. Isn't there a contradiction in that? Isn't it more logical to leave such decisions in that organisation in a well-democratic university organisation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u19	Yeah, basically. But this can only happen for unique studies if we agree that such a study should no longer exist in the Netherlands. If we do not find that, the disappearance can only be prevented if the VSNU actually does the "S" in its name. It must be about working together, to listen well together, for example, to the governing body of Humanities. I have a huge preference for universities to solve these problems themselves. I do not think, however, that at some point we are looking at the Dutch landscape of education in the humanities, and suddenly we have lost everything as a result of individual university decisions to conclude training courses. In my opinion there is indeed a role for the governing body of Humanities, for example. I have already asked for an opinion from this body in previous debates. Apparently there is. It must tackle this problem and put forward proposals. If the joint universities really do not manage to solve such a problem, I think there should always be a minister who should be able to say: I really want this study to be maintained in the Netherlands. That's what I'm asking the Chamber. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Het is dus een ultimum remedium.]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u20	I see that this answer is sufficient for Mr Grashoff. Thank you very much, Mr Van Meenen. I call Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u21	Mr. Chairman. Finally, we are holding the debate in response to the protests in the Virgin House. The occupation was a direct hit. For weeks, the role of universities, top-down governance and oversimplified returns were discussed. The action revealed a broad shared displeasure. Not only in education, but also in healthcare institutions, in companies and in the government, there is discontent about a lack of democracy, a settlement culture, perverse incentives and money-consuming real estate projects. Does the Minister recognise that this is a subject that is being discussed in society as a whole? If so, what does the Cabinet do with it? The protest works like a wake-up call. Not only for universities, but also for politics, because no one could ignore this action. He simply had too much impact before that. What never worked with years of talking, now succeeded in a few days. Everyone was wondering, what happens at these universities? Are those really graduation factories that you have to chase as many students as possible through? Or are they academic breeding sites where it is about deepening and broadening? The latter was rather out of sight due to scaling up, processing and performance requirements. The students woke us up. They forced us all to ask this core question: what do we teach? The Minister recognizes that, too. Does she agree that we should be grateful to these students for that action? It would be a pleasure for her to acknowledge that today. I'll ask VVD and CDA the same thing. Are they still only angry about the form of action, the occupation, or can they also look a step further and acknowledge that the students have a point in protesting against the lifting of their education due to the out-of-control real estate charges? Then we'll really get on with it today. I'll make it very easy for you today, because the SP picked up the glove. On the basis of intensive discussions with students and teachers, we have come up with proposals that meet the main challenges. I invite you to embrace these proposals. Then it's gonna be a beautiful night. Of course, I'll also hand over a copy to the Minister. The note has the name Op to a new university. If I offer it to you, Mr. Chairman, he'll come to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u22	I assume there is no objection to this document being made available to the Central Information Point of the Chamber. (For inspection at the Central Information Point of the Second Chamber of the States General.)
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u23	I have a few suggestions. The board of the universities is now directly elected. This will put an end to the shady appointments. We make sure that drivers are actively accountable. There is a link between management and the workplace. The tasks of the Supervisory Board are transferred to the Supervisory Board. The Minister is not very enthusiastic about this. In NRC she said earlier that she doesn't want to, because sometimes you just have to make a decision. That's a big deal. That way you can also abolish the House of Representatives. Why does the Minister oppose democracy? What's she afraid of? Students and teachers are entitled to consent to all important decisions for the university and faculty. Tasks shall be decentralised as much as possible. This also implements a previous motion by Mr Zijlstra to see whether the participation council can obtain a right of assent. There is therefore broad support for this. The training committee should also be given full participation. I take it the Minister is now adopting these proposals. I'd like to get a reaction to this. We want to reduce the number of temporary appointments to universities. We want to reduce all forms of output financing to safeguard science from perverse incentives. We're quitting graduation funding and performance agreements. For the latter there is a lot of support, also at the VSNU. We're protecting the little studies. It is very nice that the Minister is now starting to do so. Two years ago, she was against my motion to do something about it. I am pleased with this moving insight. We're increasing the first moneystroom. We stop the marketing of science, where business dictates what researchers should do. The autonomy of housing is undone. Buildings are managed by the Rijksbouwbouwdienst and directors focus on education and research. This prevents megalomaniac real estate plans at the expense of education and research. The debt of the University of Amsterdam is already around 200 million euros and is likely to double. This is ruined. Training is under pressure. We have to get rid of it. It's a time bomb under our education. Hence another question. Is the Minister prepared to list the real estate costs and financial risks of all higher education institutions? Then we can make a judgment on that as a House of Representatives. I would also like to organise a hearing on this point. I will submit my plan as an own-initiative paper. So all the proposals will come back at a later date. The Minister has used many fine words recently. There's momentum now, so let's not limit ourselves to some cosmetic changes. A trend break is needed. I'm counting on your support.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u24	Mr. Chairman. What's studying? Is it a stepping stone to the labour market with the idea of "knowledge is checkout"? Or is it more? I can say that this is not an open question, but a rhetorical question. Studying is also about the wealth of academic life. A college or university is not only intended as a driving force for the knowledge-based economy. A college or university is a community where young people develop, where reality is explored and where society is reflected. It is important that students can develop in width and that teachers, university staff and professors can focus on research. The student protests in Amsterdam started with an action against the cuts in humanities and the disappearance of small literature and culture studies. It would be so-called "uneconomic training." In my opinion, Professor Irene Zwiep of the University of Amsterdam put it nicely: "Geest science sometimes makes sense, but always makes sense." They fit in with the bildung, involvement and citizenship which the Minister also considers important. The disappearance of these studies goes against the spirit of time, in which moral values and meaning become important again. The Christian Union considers it important to preserve valuable areas of knowledge in the Netherlands. At the UvA, the humanities are relatively bad. In other universities, things are getting better. However, more and more studies are in danger of disappearing, precisely because they are "uneconomic." In 2009, the report of the Cohen Committee on Sustainable Humanities was published. It has led to the creation of the Humanities Regulatory Body. Mr Van Meenen has already mentioned this. However, the mandate of this management body will expire next year. Does the Minister intend to continue this directional body? And is the alignment the Minister is proposing sufficient to maintain studies? If a final training in the Netherlands disappears, does the Minister see this as an autonomous choice of the institution or does the Minister or the governing body block the decision? We in the Chamber should have the last word on this. I would like to receive a response from the Minister. The budget in the first money stream also plays an important role. Higher education has to do with high workload and too few college hours. For studies with low influx, the financial pressure becomes extra: are there enough so-called "Small Letter money" or unique funds to keep studies going? It is not always clear whether this money is actually spent on unique studies. Does the minister have any record of that? The disappearance of small studies is not an incident, but a logical consequence of the yield thinking in government policies and the way in which they are financed. Institutions compete with each other through the use of attractive studies, because: the more influxes, the more money. The National Science Agenda selects economic significance and societal relevance. With these selection criteria, the obvious question is: is the science agenda going to help the humanities or bring them closer? I'd like the Minister to give us a little more insight into this. As far as we are concerned, it guarantees that the latter will not happen. The minister says she's against more returns. Why, then, does it choose to do so in practice? Think of the introduction of the loan system. Under the motto "studying is investing," students are even forced to think about returns. Students have to consider themselves as a earning model: you first get a big student debt, but with a good salary after your studies you can easily pay off that debt in 35 years. I wish it were always like that. However, think also of the introduction of incentive payment. The funding is still about targets and ticking lists. It provides money to meet the performance agreements. How many returns and perverse incentives do you want? However, the Minister would like to continue. In fact, the incentive payment is already legally secured in the treatment of the Higher Education Act. In addition, there is another problem: performance agreements are linked to temporary money, so they lead to temporary projects and temporary appointments. That is precisely what we would like to reduce. Why is the incentive payment so decisive while at the same time emphasising the strengthening of participation and the participation and participation of teachers and students in the strategy and policies of an institution? The message is very contradictory. The Minister wants a stronger participation, but also wants more involvement from The Hague and steering on quality standards. The bigger the stamp the minister and the review committee put on the education, the less room for the real owners of the education: teachers, students, institutions. A good governance culture is not governed by new laws and rules. After all, why is it that one institution is doing well and not the other? The conversation must first take place at the institution itself. I note, however, that in some places in recent years the drivers have been very alienated from the workplace. Is there sufficient democracy and participation according to the Minister? What about informal participation? Does the board really determine the direction of content together with teachers and students? It is also important to consider whether participation is properly regulated by law. This has already been dealt with, including the right of assent in the Study Advantage Act, but as far as we are concerned, we must also consider whether we can strengthen the position of participation in this type of area, but also, for example, of the Training Committee. I understand there are proposals. I haven't seen it yet, so I don't know how to judge it yet. We'll look at that with an open eye.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u25	Mr. Chairman. What do we have education for? What do we have higher education for? What do we have colleges and universities for? Do we have them because of our competitiveness, our economic growth or GDP? No. We have education first and foremost for the self-development of people. The meaning, the meaning of your life, that's what education is all about. Let us note that our students, our students, our young people, like all of us, are lucky seekers and seek self-development, meaning in their lives. That's the point. That is what education must continue to be about. We followed the occupation of the Virgin House. There has been a lot of debate in society. It has become increasingly clear that a deeper and broad-based feeling of displeasure has been raised here as a result of policies in which efficiency thinking prevails, as several speakers have said. Return thinking is to reduce issues to simple arithmetic amounts in which a zero, a plus or a minus becomes present. At a minus, something is abolished. This policy is not unique to education, but we find it in all kinds of places in our society. In that respect, you could see the occupation of the Virgin House as a very important signal that goes much wider and touches much more on the essence of the way we have organized our society. If there are people who say they do not need illegal occupation of a university building in order to have a discussion about the quality of education, I think they ignore the essence of what this protest meant. In our society, we sometimes still need a piece of civil disobedience in order to really raise something. That deserves respect. In the spirit of the professors, teachers and students who protested, the educational institution was led by managers. More and more other things came first, such as real estate and return on training, and not education. The universities must take this into account, but we, as public authorities, must be equally or perhaps even more concerned. A lot of this thinking is forced or stimulated by the way in which the government has set up its rules. They're not autonomous processes. We'll send in there, too. We should do that differently. Educational institutions are judged at the speed with which students study, while this does not contribute to the quality of the education and especially not to the quality of their education. We know the examples of real estate. There has been investment in prestigious projects. The ROC Leiden scored nicely. It was also discussed at the University of Amsterdam. As far as we are concerned, education in the educational institutions must be primarily about education. To written questions by Mr Jasper van Dijk on the financial situation of the UvA, the Minister replied that the expenditure on housing should not put pressure on the quality and continuity of education. I very much agree with that, but what is the Minister's view of the border? At the moment, we often find that this is not going well afterwards, and therefore too late. The consequences are usually felt for a long time. We have to stop this kind of thing from going wrong. Perhaps that will not be possible without legal measures. I'd like to get a response from the Minister. The clumsy and haunting conditions that are imposed on students are another exodus of the return thinking. Think of the hard cut between the Bachelor's and Master's programmes and the binding study advice. They do not serve the quality of education or the self-development of students. They are merely unnecessary obstacles. I know of students who, after completing their bachelor's programme, still have to work with one course or two courses in a new year and therefore cannot continue to study for months because they cannot and cannot take up their master's programme. What the hell is that for? As far as we are concerned, this kind of restriction is really over. Does the Minister agree with us that the binding study advice and the hard cut should be removed? In our view, participation and democratisation are opposed to economicisation. These go together in governing universities and high schools. It is therefore important that training committees play an important role in this process and have a stronger position. At the moment, they have only the right to advice. We call for the right of assent of the education committees. The Minister wants to strengthen that position, but only talks about an advisory role. Why do these committees not have the right of assent? The Chamber has often argued for a student assessor, a member of the board. This can reduce the distance between the college and the participation councils. Can the Minister tell us how she is on the contrary and whether this could be anchored?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u26	I have also seen that Mr Rog is at the interrupting microphone, but have you finished your speech, Mr Grashoff?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u27	I'm kind of at the lock.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u28	Then I suggest you finish your speech first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u29	The discussion around the University of Amsterdam has shown that a change in higher education is needed. However, it has also shown us that we need to look at profitability in a different way in our society. Professors, teachers and students have indicated that this thinking and the economics of higher education have been leading for too long. They explained that to us finely. So let us really tackle these issues.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u30	Apparently, Mr Rog was so impressed by Mr Grashoff's finale that he no longer dared. I'll start with a short foreword. I did not know if I could interrupt Mr Grashoff, because I think it is the first time he has been in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u31	That's what I thought. I understand, however, that Mr Grashoff spoke yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u32	That's what I'm talking about. In any case, I welcome him to the Committee on Education, I am sure, perhaps also on behalf of my colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u33	On my behalf, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u34	However, I do have a question about his speech on profitability thinking. We hear GroenLinks speak longer than last week as a strong opponent of efficiency thinking. I get that. I think this is also a reason for many things not going well, for example at universities. Mr Grashoff may already feel him coming. I have heard the whole argument, but can he explain to me why GroenLinks has agreed or is even the architect of a bill that aims to provide all the incentives to complete a study as quickly as possible, because otherwise it will be a huge debt? How do these things relate to each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u35	I had expected this question, but it is a repetition of moves. Mrs Schouten knows as well as I do that the proposal for the study advance is not based on the principle of as high a debt as possible, but on the best and most socially possible payment arrangements. The study advance is based on a value, namely that people contribute according to their ability. If there is no such power, there is therefore less or no need to contribute. I would like to mention one example every time. If someone wants to study at the conservatory now, he has a reasonable chance of getting a limited to very low income. This can be done in this system, and better than it could be, because there is a very limited way to pay off. If someone is on the minimum wage, or underneath, there's no need to pay off. That is what GroenLinks has realised in this proposal and we are proud of it. These arrangements are more favourable than they have been so far, and they had to be borrowed as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u36	I do not want to repeat the debate on the loan system. That is not what my question was about either. Actually, I'd like to take a step up. According to GroenLinks, if you build in incentives to go through your studies as quickly as possible, is the return thinking independent of all debts and pay-off arrangements and the like? The VVD sold it the same way. Have the VVD and GroenLinks been working on another bill without their knowledge? Or is GroenLinks selling it in a way that can't be sold?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u37	How the VVD defends a proposal, you will really have to ask my colleague from the VVD. I'm not gonna answer that for him. For GroenLinks, this is far from the idea of letting people study as soon as possible. It is a question of giving people the opportunity to do a good study, without having to think in advance that this should provide a high income to pay back that student debt. That's a long way from our ideas.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u38	I thought you said we were supposed to be interrupting in threes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u39	No, in twos.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u40	Mr. Chairman. By applying for this debate, the SP, together with all the parties supporting the application for the organisation of work, has put a bonus on an outside parliamentary action, the illegal occupation of a building. The situation is that a group of students who are completely out of control were helped by professional activists from squatters and other non-legal social welfare workers, whom we have seen on TV at GeenStijl, who had never seen a university inside, and who had never seen a building that does not belong to them. They caused destruction there and left a huge mess, after they were finally, far too late, removed by the ME. They are massively evading the responsibility for the damage that is being passed on to the taxpayer for convenience. They then demand dispensation as a blow to the flare for the delayed study. These assailants of the law, who deliberately damage other people's property, who do not respond to the call of the property owners and the legal directors of the university and who ignore police orders, are rewarded by the lawmakers of the Socialist Party and by all the other parties with a debate in this parliament, where the laws have been established in a democratic process which the occupiers have deliberately excluded. I am talking about left-wing lawmakers, who talk to the mouth of even more left-wing lawbreakers, lubricate syrup and are full of understanding for their demands and for the destruction and blackmail. These occupiers seem to be the voters on their own parties. I have a few questions for the Minister. Who finally had to pay for the damage? Are there any claims against the destroyers? What about the charges against and the prosecution of the rioters? Does the Minister agree with us that it is unnatural for lawmakers to comply in legal regulations with groups that violate laws to enforce new laws that are more pleasing to them? That's what happens here and now under the inspiring leadership of the SP. This is not how it should work in a rule of law. The right of the strongest, the right of the most brutal mouth, must never prevail over the debate and the search for consensus, as has long been democratically and legally governed by the law on participation. I see that the Socialist Party does not agree with me!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u41	I do not know yet, but Mr Van Dijk would like to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u42	This is actually entrapment, so this doesn't count as interrupting. Do you agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u43	No. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u44	Hey, that's too bad. Well, I guess I'll have to. I also like the fact that Mr Beertema is building a whole speech on the SP. That's what more people have to do. There is, however, a strange reasoning in Mr Beertema's speech. He may call the students, the liberators of the Virgin House names, but he said they were going to sit in a building that wasn't theirs. But then whose building is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u45	That building belongs to the community, initially of society, but not of individual students or teachers. I taught 34 years at the ROC in Rotterdam-Zuid. That building wasn't mine. This was managed by an association and its administration had legal powers, a mandate. That's how it's supposed to be in our society. Squatters and I know what kind of thugs that threaten me with this kind of thing outside don't belong there. That happens all the time, but don't worry about it, because I never hear about it. They are not supposed to enforce concessions in these supernatural ways. It certainly shouldn't be that a lawmaker, as Mr Van Dijk of the SP, is going to lubricate syrup there to get into a good leaf with all this scum, crying with them and calling them "liberators of the Virgin House." Come on, get a life!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u46	Take it easy, Mr. Beertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u47	You're a lawmaker. Become an activist. It doesn't save much sometimes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u48	The evening is still young; I would take it a little slow. Mr Beertema has to choose whether the building belongs to the community and is therefore just as good for teachers and students who bivouaced in it, or the building belongs to the directors. That is actually the only outcome of this extremely elitist speech by Mr Beertema. He walks here all the time defending those drivers, just like Mrs Gunning, who shouted: out of my building, students and teachers! For her, you're standing up for it. I think that is a huge downside, because I thought that in Mr Beertema I still had a partner in the criticism of the power of the directors and managers. But you are constantly defending them today and you are losing the students and teachers who have launched a hugely legitimate discussion about the quality of our education. But you don't want to talk about that. That's a bummer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u49	I would prefer that there should be no names of people who cannot defend themselves in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u50	The Socialists have a curious way of listening to it. I didn't say anything about defending the drivers. On the contrary, I fight those drivers. The 34 best years of my life I spent fighting those drivers. But I've never done that with illegal occupation, destruction, and so on. That's not how it works. You fight drivers through participation, through public debate, through columns and in radio programmes. You're trying to acquire momentum. That's how it works, I want to give to the SP, not to fight squads on the streets of international socialists, squatters, autonomouss and a single student. You don't. That's not how it works. We have a rule of law and, precisely as legislators, we have to defend that rule of law. You choose not to. As far as I am concerned, you are placing yourself in an exceptional position. You should not want to take part in the debate anymore. Get out on the street, sneak up a few more buildings and see what happens. Maybe that way you can get your way. That is how it should not work, at least in our view.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u51	The debate must be conducted through the President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u52	I was going to stay in this debate. I wasn't planning on demolishing buildings. I'm surprised you don't call the students in your speech jihadists or give them other qualifications, but that's on you. I have another question. Apart from what you think of the occupation and of these students, with all the qualifications you give them, do you acknowledge that these students have also been involved? There was a broader call at the University of Amsterdam, not least in the Netherlands, for more participation and control. Do you recognize that? Or are you saying that all those teachers in college shouldn't be whining and that they should just listen to what they're being told?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u53	I'm stuck with that introductory phrase about jihadists. I'm thinking very hard about it. I would ask Mr Mohandis to clarify this, otherwise I cannot give a proper answer to his question. I didn't mention jihadists. What connection does he make between my speech and jihadism?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u54	A brief explanation, Mr Mohandis.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u55	It is nice but also remarkable that Mr Beertem is taking this up. That's his right. I also asked an important follow-up question. That was the real question to Mr Beertema. How does he deal with the fact that after the occupation there was a broader call to give students and teachers more control and more participation? Or is his answer that the teachers who respond to this shouldn't be whining? What's his answer to that group?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u56	On that group? What group? The jihadists?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u57	That's lame. You want to answer the question or you don't want to answer it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u58	Mr Mohandis refuses to clarify his question. Then I'm not gonna answer and, as far as I'm concerned, it's just gonna stop. The PVV considers that participation at central level does not need to be changed. It's more than okay. The problem lies not in the content of the participation law, but in the timely and proper use of participation. If participation is extended further, it will only create more theoretical possibilities, without making use of them in practice. With new and additional policies for participation, we are generating even more administrative pressures than there already is. Then I come to the preservation of the unique studies in the humanities. The institutions are already doing a lot by mutual agreement to preserve the unica for the Netherlands. All institutions already have a budgetary system to maintain small studies. That's what you see in the whole education. However, we must be realistic. Quality training must have a certain mass. There is a critical size under which real quality is at risk and that is a problem. It's a tough and difficult problem. There will then be a moment when institutions will have to decide to stop training. We cannot allow training courses that are hardly in demand to continue to be financed, for example through larger courses that do have healthy student numbers. Then I'm gonna come up with the return thinking. The broad accessibility of higher education to very large groups, including the lower social groups, is an enormous achievement of education. It's really a huge achievement. This is the end point of the emancipation pathway for those groups that were not used at all in the past. It is the realization of the elevation ideal. We can now see that translated into the huge numbers of students streaming in and out of each year. That is an unprecedented success, but at the same time there is a prize for that success. It's called return thinking. If that's studying, it's tax money. Without a certain degree of return thinking, we can't do it anymore. That's not funny. It used to be more fun. Then the elite could endlessly stretch the number of years of study and very small studies could be endlessly funded. That's different now. It brings with it a lot of disadvantages. It's not fun at all. We must always fight against perverse incentives, but not in this way. For the time being, the PVV sees no reason to intervene in the policy set out by the Executive Board of the UVA and other directors to maintain the small studies, within the critical limits within which quality can be offered. Nor do we see any reason to extend participation at this time. Above all, we are now saying that we will never again participate in a debate which is forced by destruction, occupation and violation of the law. I hope that other parties will agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u59	You can say a lot about occupiers, demonstrations and here and there also about a bent door handle. But you can also say that, unlike meetings of the PVV, at least no people with flags of swastikas came after them. But that's not my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u60	If that is not the question... I have been to all kinds of meetings of the PVV and I find this an outrageous accusation. There's never been swastikas...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u61	Check it out: swastikas, here on the Square.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u62	- Hooks? - Yeah. I'm gonna distance myself from this. I go with this representative of D66, who is a direct accusation of Nazism, and I don't know...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u63	It's not an accusation; it's just a fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u64	No, it's all of those asides from the elitist gentleman of D66, who starts about swastikas in connection with the PVV. I find that scandalous. He can just sit down, 'cause I'm not answering any more questions from him.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u65	I am going to ask my question, even though Mr Beertema has sat down and we are not getting an answer. If in his life as a teacher Mr Beertema has fought the directors for 34 years, I really do not understand that he does not take the opportunity to strengthen the position of the teachers in the participation. I can't ask him, but I don't understand. His fight against the drivers didn't work. Now there is an opportunity to put both students and teachers in a position by strengthening participation. We are in the Chamber, which is about the participation of the Netherlands. The Chamber has many powers of assent. That is the ultimate instrument for giving real hands and feet to the leaders who want to fight Mr Beertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u66	It is therefore to be appreciated that Mr Bertema is taking the trouble to deal with this. After all, this Chamber is also meant to engage in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u67	I am certainly of that opinion, but I will not engage in the debate until Mr Van Meenen of D66 has distanced himself from his introductory remark on flags with swastikas and thereby lays the link between the Party for Freedom and the National Socialist Workers Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u68	In his introduction, Mr Bertema addressed people who joined the students. He called that autonomous squatters, criminals, and you name it. I deliberately referred to a meeting that took place here at the Square. I just wanted to point out that you don't always control who joins you. That's my point. But then you have to be careful judging others. So I would like us not to have to have the debate with each other in this way, but to talk about the content. That's why I was disappointed with his introduction. I would like to point out to him that something that could happen to anyone has been affected by the fact that others, who had nothing to do with the objective, have joined his demonstration.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u69	You've made your point clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u70	But I'm not going to compare the autonomouss, the international socialists, the AFA, and all those groups with Nazis. Mr Van Meenen compared me and us to Nazis. He needs to distance himself from that. As long as he doesn't, I'm leaving the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u71	I'm gonna distance myself from that. I didn't say that. I'm not, and I don't want to. My point is that people you don't want to be associated with can, for some reason, join a protest meeting that is taking place. That's what happened here at the Square at a PVV meeting. That's just a fact. That's why I'm saying...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u72	I didn't see any swastikas.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u73	Check the footage again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u74	What I do see are jihad flags.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u75	Fine, Mr Bertema sees what he wants to see and what he doesn't want to see. It's just on camera, and he can check it out. But that's not what I'm talking about. I'm just trying to make it clear that we shouldn't be distracted from the core by the fact that unwanted people, who have absolutely nothing to do with your objective, are joining your protest. That is why I ask Mr Beertema not to do the same to these students.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u76	I'm gonna step in now. You have made your point clear, Mr Van Meenen. I think there has been enough change on this point. It is up to you, Mr Beertema, to draw a conclusion from this and to decide whether or not you want to answer Mr Van Meenen's other question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u77	I would like to give one more thing to Mr Van Meenen. I have to operate in a certain political reality. If I go to Leeuwarden and hand out fluffy leaflets for the provincial elections, I get six men from the Royal and Diplomatic Security Service and a flight BMW because the threats of the Anti-Fascist Action and the international socialists are so severe according to analyses. That is the reality in which we operate. The thoughts of all those people who want to threaten me and my colleagues so much are fed by these kind of remarks and aside, that we are Nazis and so on. You don't think that's worth it and...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u78	I find that very worthwhile, especially to distance myself from it. I do not think so at all. That's exactly my point. And yet there are people who do posterage in that way and who join a meeting when they have nothing to do with your party. That's my point. That's what happened to these students. You're throwing that in one pile, and I'm in favour of not throwing it in one pile. So I'm on your side.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u79	Then you have expressed that extremely unfortunately, if I may put it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u80	That may be, but it is almost your wish to interpret it this way. However, I would still like to understand why Mr Beertema does not take advantage of the opportunity that arises in this debate to raise the power of the directors. He's done that for 34 years. I do not understand why he does not take this opportunity and why he says: it is nice, a little advice we listen to and we continue. How could he let that chance go?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u81	As far as I am concerned, it is not the case that you can create even more solutions to the problems that we all recognise by working with participation, which, as far as I am concerned, goes very far. I see these problems, of course. However, additional participation is not a panacea. I hear people saying the drivers should have chalk on their pants. That's nice, but in the educational organizations in which I worked, all the presidents of the board were people who had finally climbed through the ranks. But that didn't help. They were total "educational animals." The chairman of my own rock had great educational ideas, but was eventually a driver who made a lot of mistakes, including real estate and large scale. It doesn't solve anything if you give participation even more hands and feet, because who are going to sit on the co-determination council on behalf of those students? Those are the managers in the cap. They're in there at the age of 23 or 25.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u82	Finally, Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u83	If that doesn't solve the problem, how will the PVV solve it? I haven't heard a single proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u84	We have tabled numerous motions to divide the lumpsum into 80/20, for example. That was once an idea that Mark Rutte put forward as Secretary of State for Education: 80% for the primary process, under a strict definition of primary process, and 20% for "the hassle," as Mark Rutte called it. I totally agree with him if you make good definitions for that. However, none of the parties here, except the SP, have supported these motions. A mist was constantly deliberately created around the definition of the primary process, which no one ever came out of. But of course you can. You do that, you're done. Dan's...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u85	Thank you very much, Mr Beertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u86	...the law on the participation council is sufficient. Then we'll get there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u87	Mr. Chairman. I hardly dare anymore, but I really prepared my story with the opening phrase: how do you get happy? But perhaps it will be good to open this debate after this intense debate. How does a man become happy? That doesn't happen if you work constantly to be happy, if you set indicators, if you set performance agreements, if you count parameters, if you set a development path or if you set a final goal. Happiness often comes by way of a detour, doing so, doing other things. Just like that, a person can feel happy. So it is also a bit with the return on education. Do you want education as an investment? Do you want to study as an advance on the future? Do you want education as a driving force for the economy? In our belief, you will have to approach education as an education first. Then the return comes. Then that advance comes to the future. Then education will be given the function of a motor for the economy. It's time for that perspective. As far as we are concerned, it is time for a new language on education. I would like to mention five points. I made some of them in the form of a recommendation. The first point is: watch out for new return traps. The Minister is pleased that there is more focus on added value and social interest rather than on turning production. The SGP appreciates this very positively, but at the same time we point out the risk that we are running from one closed to another. Social interest is beautiful, but it can just become a new style. So how do you measure social interest? Then how do you measure that it's being realized? How does the Minister prevent this from becoming a new yoke? The second point is: let incentive payment really be an experiment. The Minister writes that incentive payment is explicitly an experiment. Experimenting means first of all asking the basic question whether an instrument, test or test works. It therefore surprises the SGP that the Minister starts with new commitments in 2018. How is it that she already knows the outcome of the experiment? We don't know the outcome yet. The SGP has never been enthusiastic about incentive payment. She still isn't and probably won't be. It is also a mystery why study success still represents a third of the incentive payment, while there is a loan system at the door. It has rightly been pointed out that its impact in the study is to reduce debt. The third point is to improve the position of humanities in research funding. In recent years, the government has increasingly looked at higher education and research through economic-technical glasses. The commitment to the humanities pales in the stacks of plans and grants drawn out for science and technology. There are increasing risks to the humanities. I'm thinking of the following risks. I'll give you three. The united universities rightly point to the risks of top sector policy, which places a heavy and more unilateral emphasis on science and technology. In addition, the basic first money flow is increasingly uncertain by constantly shifting money back and forth. For example, the recently proposed promotional costume nibbles at this base again. Moreover, the distribution of grants by NWO has no less than six domains for science and technology, while the variety of society in the humanities is squeezed into two domains. Isn't it time to look at how we can make funding more balanced and stable? It is important to emphasise in this way that humanities should take a full place. The SGP would like to put that base in order. I was quiet for a moment, but I don't want to be interrupted. Let us move on to the fourth point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u88	I see Mr Duisenberg walking to the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u89	Mr Bishop has inspired me so much. I enjoyed the silence for a moment, because suddenly something happens. Mr President, may I put a question to Mr Bishop?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u90	Of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u91	Mr Bishop says that study success is a third of the commitments made. Where did he come up with that? The agreements of the UvA, for example, are about excellence as quality, about teacher quality, about educational intensity and how much education do you receive and how much contact do you have with teachers? I think Mr Van Dijk will be very pleased with this. This therefore involves as little overhead costs as possible. Otherwise, I'm calling it a failure. Students shouldn't fall out. Besides, they shouldn't switch. That's also unpleasant for students. The very last point is the yield of the bachelor, where you are about finished after nominal plus one. So that's a little faster. How do you get to a third? Unless it is the case that Mr Bishop finds it very bad if we are going to find it important.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u92	It goes a little too far to present all kinds of details here, but what I have said is that of the incentive payment a third is determined by study success. I will then bring together a number of these factors, namely the flow and the timely completion of the study. That's how I'm gonna get to a third.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u93	Mr Bishop mentions it as a detail, but what I am concerned about is that Mr Bishop presents a certain frame in the vein that we are talking about something very bad. However, it is only about quality. Failure isn't fun for individual students. If you've chosen something, you don't want to have to quit after a year. That is a huge social problem. For one indicator, one point of focus, it is indeed about the pace of study. We believe that the pace of study may be slightly higher. All those students who want to study can study. We can afford that, too, all of us. Why do you make such a monster when it's all about quality?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u94	I wouldn't call it a monster. I only note that this is part of the incentive payment in the performance agreements, while at the same time introducing a new instrument, namely the loan system. I wholeheartedly agree with the importance of good progress in the study. There is still an understanding of the fact that agreements are made within certain frameworks. However, it must not be allowed to become a pile-up of all kinds of measures. That's what's threatening here. As far as the incentive payment is concerned, we would like to go more towards the basic cost, with a smaller portion of incentive payment in addition to whipped cream on the whole. That is what we want, so that there is indeed an incentive, but the perversion of certain incentives is removed. A fourth point I would like to highlight is: pay attention to Hebrew. Unique language studies should not disappear due to carelessness. It is therefore important for the universities to have a meeting as a safety net. The SGP finds it strange that this safety net is the only one for the study Hebrew deliberately declared inoperative, while we believe that this study meets all the criteria. This creates the risk of disappearing in both Leiden and Amsterdam Hebrew, without consultation. Does the Minister also see that risk, in line with her previous answers to our questions? The SGP also asks the Minister why Hebrew has no place in the basic offer. In view of the cultural and historical background of the Netherlands, the strong connection with the classical languages, the fact that Arabic is also included and the fact that our Dutch language has also been co-stamped by Hebrew are no longer obvious that Hebrew has at least a place in the basic offer? I'd like to get a response. Then I come to my final point: do not create more, but better participation. After the first Virgin House occupation, Minister Veringa rightly pointed out that democratisation should be about sharing responsibility. It shouldn't be a crowbar for society renewals. The SGP notes that, unfortunately, there is a great deal of time in constantly expanding to the detriment of good participation. In other words, the toolbox is getting bigger and bigger, but the tool in it is not being used enough. Almost no year goes by or another change is being discussed or announced. However, you cannot learn the game properly if the rules change each time. Is it not time to exercise the extensive rules already in place, rather than to present and implement all kinds of radical measures or proposals under the pretext of increasing participation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u95	I would like to suspend for two minutes, but not after I give Mr Van Meenen the floor. It is not an interruption by Mr Bishop. So you can just sit down again, Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u96	It's not even about an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u97	Mr President, I was wrong to say to Mr Beertema that swastikas appeared at the Plein meeting. I was wrong about this in the heat of the debate. It was about the Prince's flag, and I wanted to refer to it. I'm really sorry I said that. I understand his indignation and I apologise to him and to the PVV for that. I hope he'll accept them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u98	I'd be happy to accept that apology.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u99	It is good that this point has been made. It's in the Acts now, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u100	Mr. Chairman. First, a few words about the illegal occupation. Then I'll go into the content. The VVD has spoken out with other parties in this Chamber against the illegal occupation of the Virgin House. Outside this Chamber there was a lot of indignation, but the silent majority found its way to public publicity not so easy. In fact, I want to do justice to that. Out of the many thousands of responses I received on Facebook, Twan, for example, wrote: "As a student, I am completely done occupying buildings. I'm glad you don't agree with something, but then go into action in a decent way. This really doesn't make any sense." This message alone had 108 likes. For example, in one day there were many other students who responded in the same way. Professors also mentioned the students' spielerei and said that quality and return go hand in hand. And Arnon Grunberg, who was at the invitation of the activists at the Virgin House, states that action and emotion are a pubess for laziness. On this subject, I have only one question for the Minister. How does she go the damage and cost of this common squatter action stories on the occupiers? Then I come to the content, more quality in higher education. I shall, of course, start with the report of the Veerman Committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u101	Mr Duisenberg has given all kinds of qualifications to the occupation. Does he agree with me that the occupation, however you qualify them, has loosened something? Does he see with me that, once teachers had joined, there was much more protest in the area of better participation and more participation? Or does he say, all those teachers at the UvA, they shouldn't be whining like that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u102	As far as I'm concerned, it hasn't brought anything new. In fact, what it has brought is negative publicity about the University of Amsterdam, but also negative publicity about the strategic agenda and the improvements we want to make in higher education. It would have been much better to focus on that, rather than on this negative way of doing it. As far as I am concerned, the middle level has spoken here and not a constructive voice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u103	The debate should also be about the future and how quality should be shaped. I think those things go together. You can also initiate such a protest debate. I agree with you that there are also students who express their discontent or their peace in a different way. Looks like you're creating a contradiction. I'm a dead man. You've probably been there yourself. I also spoke to students who experienced real problems and who simply said that they want to find something about their education, that they want to look into what quality is and who co-form. In my opinion, there should be no contradiction between something that has loosened an occupation and where we could go if you look at the future of our higher education.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u104	I don't want to hand out this kind of credit here. This has just been a negative illegal action. This parliament is open. We are called every day, we are emailed, we are going to work visits, we are working together to arrange investments for the quality of education, we are drawing up an agenda for the quality of education, we are talking about participation. We have tabled a motion together to improve the training committee and we have said to each other that this training committee is on our agenda and that we are going to do more about it. All these things are already happening, and I must say that I think this is only a distraction from the extremely positive improvement agenda, which I would have preferred us all to work together on. Again, I find this just a hold back to a deep black hole, a black hole of negativity and of the middle measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u105	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u106	Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the content, more quality in higher education. I shall, of course, start with the report of the Veerman Committee. Because since 2010, the educational field has been working on more quality. The analysis of the Veerman Committee was already crystal clear at that time. The number of students doubled over the last 20 years. The number of teachers didn't increase. The quality was good, but not excellent and the education was not tailored. About half of the students found the quality mediocre. Compared to students abroad, Dutch students hardly tried to excel. The integration into the labour market was variable. The returns were too low, because only two thirds of students in higher education obtained their degree after six to seven years. The solutions put forward were: more profiling, more choice for students, higher ambitions, higher quality, less dropout and less study time, so that each student can be challenged to the maximum of his or her. If you put so much time, energy and money into a study, you obviously want to get something out of it. You want to get more out of it. You want a higher return. That's what's going on right now. The headline of the National Student Survey doesn't make any sense today. Never before were students so satisfied with their education. That makes sense. The number of students in excellence programmes is increasing. That's return. The quality of teachers is increasing. That's return. The fall-out's dropping. That is return and leads to far less disappointed students. The profile is sharper. That too is a return. As far as the VVD is concerned, however, the bar can be even higher. We'll make that possible, too. Through the study advance we can invest up to 1 billion a year in smaller groups and more teachers in the lecture hall. We don't need any less, but we need more efficiency. It is about more revenue for each student and for Dutch society. This is needed in a rapidly changing, globalising world. That is also what the Veerman Committee's analysis showed, and that is the ambition we endorsed here in the Chamber four years ago. We need to keep our course now. My second point concerns participation. There are sufficient instruments for this, but they need to be better used. Mr Bishop has already referred to this, and I think that Mr Beertem too. The final gain for participation is the right of assent for the budget. That every time asking for more rights is a kind of addiction. Students in the Virgin House now want more rights, but that is not the right way to go. A university serves teachers and students, but also society. The administration must be able to weigh these different interests. The VVD wants to focus the debate on educational quality. We are talking about the right to top education rather than the right to justice. Students, teachers and administrators should be able to appeal to each other for their attitude and performance. This is what the VVD wants to do where it is best to do, namely in the training itself in the so-called training committees. It is not a question of increasing the rights of distrust of the administration, but of stimulating the debate. That is why we want all training committees to be trained more and to receive compensation. Secondly, we want an annual assessment of the training committee to be directly included in the study leaflet, so that this information from the training committee also clearly reaches future students and everything is transparent. In this way, we are holding the debate on the quality of education in the right place. I am tabling a motion for this, along with Mr Rog. I'm gonna go to the little studies. On the one hand, wealth of studies is important in the Netherlands, but on the other hand, choices have to be made. If a study draws too few students, the situation there is not sustainable at some point. Then one has to work together in that study, or solve it as a broad bachelor. But there is a limit, because if you choose to invest money in keeping up a study where only a few students study, you keep that money away from other studies and other students. At the level of the Netherlands and Europe there is a lot possible with a little good will. Is this cooperation and coordination already sufficiently sought at the level of the Netherlands and of Europe? I'm gonna finish up. Let us hold the course of Veerman, in the interests of students and of the future of the Netherlands. In this direction there is more focus on quality, differentiation and ambition. There is more investment and more return for students and society. In that course, the average is not the norm for every student. The norm is: more than you'd ever imagined. For each student, this applies: not less, but more return.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u107	Let's get an observation first. Mr Duisenberg imitates Mr Bertema in his aversion to the occupation of the Virgin House. Then what I find amusing is that he was there himself. So he's also a bit of an accomplice to the occupation, but that aside. Mr Duisenberg thinks that the students are just a little whiny, asking for more rights and so on. But then he comes up with a whole plea to strengthen the training committees. I think that is very good in itself, but a bit contradictory. What about the motion by his predecessor Zijlstra, who also said that we need to see how we can strengthen participation even more than the training committees can give consent to important matters? Is that what he's proposing? Or does he support my note, wherever it is?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u108	I went to the Virgin House to tell the occupiers to pack. I said roll up your sleeping bag, brush your teeth and go to the lecture hall, get out of here. That's why I went to the Virgin House. I would like to make that very clear here. Then there is the motion that was adopted at the time. It was an investigation that took place a few years ago. That was before Mr Zijlstra was Secretary of State. This study has produced certain results which have led to a number of revisions in participation. Earlier this evening it has been said that participation has been strengthened over and over again over the last few years. A great deal has already been done on that point. I understand, the Socialist Party and many of the students from the Virgin House are addicted to extra rights. We must now see that all these additional rights are being properly used. That's why we're putting forward a motion. This motion is intended to ensure that students are properly facilitated and that they can actually spend time on it. The turnout in elections to participation councils and training committees is only a small percentage. The students on the council are not a good representation of all students at all. That OC should therefore be properly placed. That's what I want, and I want it by just making it work.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u109	I note that Mr Duisenberg was in there weeks before the Virgin House was evacuated to say: packing toothbrushes, pulling up sleeping bags and leaving. However, this has had little effect. Maybe he still needs a lesson in demagogy, but that aside.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u110	Then I'll come to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u111	Fine. Mr Duisenberg is now trying to ignore that Zijlstra motion, by saying that everything has been improved lately. But can he go into his partymate's motion very precisely? At that time, I co-signed this motion, which calls for the approval of training committees on important issues within the university. Does he support them or is he referring to a vague story about facilitation and advisory rights of training committees? Does he actually give them a vote through a right of consent?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u112	I would like to say a few words about the lesson of demagogy. I think I can learn a great deal from Mr Van Dijk. It is incredibly handsome that, while the SP election programme states that 1 billion savings must be made on education and the SP education programme according to the accounts of the Central Planning Bureau, he still manages to steal the show for a group of students and that they all fall for it. My compliments and I really like to get him on a course, because that he can sell it, cut 1 billion on education and such a bad education program, that's amazing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u113	May I respond briefly, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u114	This point has also been raised by Mr Bishop and Mr Beertema. My solution is very concrete. That whining about even more right of consent is slowly becoming an addiction. Mr Van Dijk thinks he'll solve something with that. However, previous speakers have already said that this does not solve anything at all. First of all, you have to make sure that everything that is now in place is that the right of assent in the budget is going to work properly. That is what my proposal is for. Let us work on this before we give in to Mr Van Dijk's addiction again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u115	Now Mr Van Dijk must be able to say something back.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u116	That's very kind of you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Duisenberg is moving forward with leaps and bounds. The demagogy sprang from it! But also the nonsense, because the SP doesn't cut a penny on education. Mr Duisenberg knows that very well. The SP cuts down on managers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u117	That's true; I forgot!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u118	And now for those training committees. Mr Duisenberg refers to the question of more rights as 'bitches'. In doing so, I note that he accuses his own colleague Halbe Zijlstra of'sucking for more rights'. Take a good look at that motion. It's a fantastic motion for approval by the training committee. Is Mr Duisenberg for or against that? I'd like a clear yes or no.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u119	That motion was carried out, because that motion asked for an investigation into this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u120	Yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u121	That motion has been carried out. I would not dare to go against my group chairman either. So it is a very good motion, which was carried out, and then the group chairman was...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u122	Right of consent: yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u123	Mr. Van Dijk...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u124	But it's not an answer!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u125	Finish your sentence, Mr Duisenberg. Or were you done already?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u126	Yeah, I was actually done.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u127	What appeals to me in Mr Duisenberg's story is that he is full of the quality of education. He mentioned that a number of times, and I share that with him. That's what it should be about. However, in many years in which the influence of students and teachers in higher education has been minimal, there has been increasing criticism of the quality of education. This could therefore be a plea for strengthening the position of the main bodies involved, such as the training committees. Mr Duisenberg says that he would like to facilitate this. I agree. But is it logical to assume that the position of the training committees will actually be so firm and that they can effectively do their job with the facilities proposed by Mr Duisenberg, which costs money if you do not ultimately put them in a position to smash into a pack of butter?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u128	In any case, according to the National Student Survey, the quality of education has improved in recent years. The results of that survey have become known today and the satisfaction has never been so high. It's not nearly high enough yet. The latter is not in it, but I think it is, and we all think it is. But we are taking steps forward. However, we need to move forward even further. As far as I am concerned, we are doing this in line with the report of the Veerman Committee. More differentiation, more quality. As far as I am concerned, that is the direction. Mr Grashoff's question is whether the training committee is actually being set up. I do not think he will be put in place by cycling in it again with new consent rights. You become an important organ if you make sure there are facilities for training and if you have good rewards, so you can really spend time on it as a student. You will also be an important body if you are allowed to give an annual opinion on the programme and that advice actually comes into the study leaflet, and is therefore published publicly and goes to all new students. Last year, together with Mr Mohandis, I also tabled a motion to strengthen the training committees (33472, No. 22). The opinion of the training committee was involved in the accreditation. At that time, therefore, I took steps to put the committees there properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u129	Mr Duisenberg makes a few proposals on the subject of the education committees which I think are useful. I can tell him that we will wholeheartedly support these proposals. However, in our view it is a wonderful move to strengthen an institution without giving it that position. Mr Duisenberg himself said a few times in his speech: why rights based on mistrust? I'd like to turn it around. Is it not the case with Mr Duisenberg that he does not wish to grant that right of assent on the basis of mistrust?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u130	No, that's not the case. As the rights have been extended in recent years and as they are now in the law, there is already a huge structure of rights. We have just added the right of assent to the budget. First, let's make sure that what's there is going to work. I've heard that apple before tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u131	Mr Van Meenen, this is your last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u132	I agree with Mr Grashoff that it is good to strengthen the facilitation of training committees. But on me, Mr Duisenberg's speech also sounds a bit like: we raise the training of a boxer, we give him the best facilities, we give him better gloves, but at the end we just tie his hands behind his back and send him into the ring. Why does Mr Duisenberg not want to take that step now? Does he not agree with me that, in the end, students' interest in participation and participation in training committees will increase if they really have something to say? Does he agree with me that this is the big problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u133	If your advice on the programme is published publicly in the study leaflet, which ends up with hundreds of thousands of freshmen, you're on a huge pedestal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u134	That would be the case if the advice was followed, but that is a bit of the problem. Does Mr Duisenberg agree with me that it would be a mockery if we, as members of the Chamber, which is for me the co-determination council of the Netherlands, only had advisory powers? Doesn't he think it would be over with democracy?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u135	Yes, but you are not going to amend the Constitution here either. You have a bit of the same addiction. You need to deal with the Socialist Party a little less. We've seen that a lot lately. You mustn't think nothing happened. There are incredibly many rights, such as advisory rights and consent rights. We have just added the right of assent to the budget. Again, let's get to work on that first. I'm taking action. I position the OCs in the first place by letting them play a role in the accreditation. In that context, I would like to draw your attention to my motion of last year. Secondly, I do so by suggesting that if they deliver an opinion, the public should be represented in the study leaflet. In addition, students wishing to fulfil this important task must be facilitated and well funded.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u136	Mr Van Meenen, I was just told that this was your second interruption. Earlier, it was a personal fact rather than an interruption. I can see jealous looks right away! I call Mr Rog of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u137	Mr. Chairman. The behaviour of the occupiers of the Bungehuis and the Maagdenhuis, as well as the conduct of the UvA's administration, are quite shameful. The occupiers are responsible for a €500,000 damages claim for their university. Both during the occupation of the Bungehuis and the Maagdenhuis, the squatters deliberately ignored a request for evacuation. Is this damage reported to the unsubs? Can the Minister indicate whether privacy-sensitive information has come into the hands of these occupying forces? What example do we give our young adults if they are first ignored when they want to talk about the future of their education through participation? What example do we give the same young people as they are rewarded for illegal entry and destruction of university buildings? How does the Minister appreciate the action of the UvA's administration in this respect? On 14 November 2014, on behalf of the CDA Group, I asked the Minister about the UvA's plans to cut down on the small language studies. The Minister replied to these persistent words and said soothing words that the administration of the UvA would take this carefully and that the final consideration for this was with the board. By the way, it was the same month in which the Minister was superlatives short of commending the chairman of the UvA. According to Bussemaker, it was tremendously inspiring to see how Gunning gives everyone his role, creates an atmosphere of openness and sees governance as a joint task. During the occupation of the Maagdenhuis, the ministerial adoration for Gunning's administrative style had disappeared immediately. Last March, the Minister spoke suddenly about the right of students. She also only then embraced that was in the letter that the Chamber then received, the vision of the future for the languages of the VSNU, the Discipline consultation on Literature and Humanities and the Humanities Agency, which had already come out almost a year ago. The CDA supports the initiatives from the academic world itself to maintain small, unique language studies. My question therefore focuses on the direction of the Minister. Why did it not draw the attention of the UvA to this vision in November and ask it to act accordingly? Does the Minister agree with the CDA that the social interest should also be part of the consideration of whether small language studies can be merged or disposed of? Isn't there a responsibility here for the minister himself? If a small language study disappears, it is definitely gone, whereas there may be geopolitical, economic or cultural-historical reasons for wanting to retain such a study, even if the universities want to get rid of it. Is the Minister prepared to give further consideration to the financing of these small, unique studies in cases where the social interest is opposed to closure? I'd like to get a response from the Minister. Participation should focus on the quality and content of education. For the CDA, the adage is: education policy prefers to be decentralised where it can, only centrally define where it needs to be, and participate in it. We also see only moderate involvement in central participation among students and teachers. The CDA therefore wants to focus on the place where the good talk about quality of education takes place, namely the training committee. There should now be no incident policy and the rewriting of the WHW under pressure of occupation. We know there are concerns and points of improvement. These have been presented, among other things, by student associations and participation organisations in higher education. Let's listen to that. Let the Minister investigate this, as I, along with Mr Duisenberg, request in the motion. I come to the other points. I begin with the mystery of the hundreds of millions that Minister Bussemaker spends almost weekly, at least according to the media, on higher education. However, there is not yet a student or teacher who has ever seen it. First of all, I would like to refer to the EUR 200 million pre-financing that would be provided by universities in anticipation of the proceeds of the loan system. Can the Minister say how many universities and colleges have actually pursued this policy and how much extra money has gone to the primary process or is still going to go? What concrete improvements have actually been made in the past period? In the media, the Minister also suggested that thousands of teachers be added to higher education. Does she have any extra money for this? Or are these statements similar to those of the Secretary of State who promised 3,000 extra teachers last year, while the classes have not become smaller? Or is the Minister perhaps ahead of the proceeds of the future loan system, which will only become substantial in 2021? The colleges and universities themselves have already stated that they want to use them in particular for the primary process. What's the honest story about those thousands of extra teachers in higher education?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u138	The story was so suddenly finished that I had to run. Mr Rog almost annoyed earlier in this debate, when he interrupted Mr Van Meenen, that those consent rights should have been settled a year ago. I thought: that's good, because the CDA thinks that we should have dealt with it a long time ago. Now I don't hear about it in his contribution. Is Mr Rog strongly in favour of extending the right of consent of OCs and participation councils?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u139	I don't understand much of this question. In my contribution, I took up the CDA's proposal. Together with my colleague from the VVD, I have tabled a motion to examine how we can strengthen the position of the training committees through training and facilitation. That is the position of the CDA. I appeal to left-wing liberal parties such as D66 and GroenLinks to knock a billion euros out of students' pockets and then to complain here that their legal status is so bad. You should have done that when you made that deal with the Labour Party and the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u140	I must nevertheless express my disappointment, because I had hoped that the CDA would be heading towards strengthening the rights of students and teachers, but unfortunately we are getting cheated out of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u141	I think there is also a disappointment among students and teachers about the fact that GroenLinks felt it necessary to help the loan system to a majority when it was not necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u142	Mr. Chairman. Students have clearly shown that they want to influence the quality of education. Teachers later joined these actions. They are dissatisfied with the fact that studies are disappearing and sometimes about directors and about the participation and control of education. At the same time, I note that there are also students who are satisfied with their education. There's also a group we haven't heard. I'm sure underneath it are students who are all fine with it. There are also students and teachers who may express their dissatisfaction in a different way. I'm sure there's another category that doesn't care. These are important signals that we cannot ignore. My analysis is that the pain is that students and teachers want influence and do not have it enough to co-form education. That's the point. Contradiction is not mandatory, but it must be properly arranged at times when it is necessary. The Labour Party wants students and teachers to be able to participate and decide on their own education. For the Labour Party there are three points of improvement. The first is participation. This cabinet has taken an important step by giving the right to vote on the broad lines of the budget. As a result, students can also determine how universities and colleges spend their money. This year's budgets must be submitted by directors to students and teachers for approval. If this happens in all the institutions, I ask the Minister. This is the direction we welcome, but are we there? No. The Labour Party believes that students and teachers should not only participate in their own education, but actually participate in their decision. We want to look above all at the control of study committees at faculty level, to give them real teeth again. It is precisely decentralised participation that needs to be further strengthened. This also strengthens the decentralised administration. Training committees play an important role in education. They are the closest to helping to shape the training. They are seen as the most decentralised co-determination. That is why I propose that the training committees should be given a formal position, with advice and right of assent. OCs can not only bark, but also bite. They are then really a full partner of the directors. I would like to hear a response from the Minister. For good participation, it is also important that this is accessible and attractive for students and teachers. My colleague Duisenberg has made good proposals for facilitating this. I would like to join in that. But I also think it is very important for students to know what these facilities are for, for example, taking part in participation. This should improve matters, e.g. the tuition-free administration that is often available to fulltime workers, but may become more difficult for a part-time worker. I would like to get an answer to the question whether all these possibilities are insightful for students. My second point concerns participation. The participation has hardly any say in the appointment of directors. In order to gain greater support for directors, participation should at least be given the right to advise on the nomination of the educational director. We also welcome the fact that this step is being taken, as the Cabinet has announced that it will be included in a legislative proposal. Furthermore, the PvdA wants the Minister to take lessons and inform the Chamber of the findings of the Committee of Inquiry which has now started work at the UvA to investigate and further shape democratisation. We also want to see the position of the Supervisory Board taken into account. On the basis of these findings, the PvdA wants the government to come up with a plan to give students and teachers more say in the appointment of directors in consultation with sectoral councils and student organisations. For the occupation of the Maagdenhuis we have already argued together with D66 for a student assessment, for example. As a result, it is possible to meet with the Executive Board. As far as we are concerned, there are more ways of shaping participation and democratisation. What is the situation with regard to the implementation of the motion for a resolution on this matter? Much has been said about maintaining small studies. I can largely agree with Mr Van Meenen's statements on the possibilities of the Minister in the event of a loss of unique training. Does the Minister have the power to intervene if necessary? As far as the "S" in VSNU is concerned, a little bit more can be done to ensure together that what is important for the Netherlands and the cultural heritage actually stays intact. For the PvdA it is important that the new quality agreements are co-formed by students and teachers. The investment from the study advance should benefit the following quality principles. Each student deserves intensive education with small classes, an environment where students and teachers know each other and students receive the best guidance when they start training. Students and staff should not get the feeling that they are just a number. We want higher education where the quality of teachers is not under discussion. We also come to talk about this at the Strategic Agenda later this year. We want educators to involve students and teachers in decision-making so that they together shape the education and so ask themselves in every decision whether this makes education better. This calls for a different administrative attitude, an attitude whereby students and teachers in higher education are not seen as a tick-off list, but as full partners to give education direction and quality. Control of the public sector, which is of value and what is of value, belongs to all of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u143	Mr Mohandis wants more influence from students and teachers on the appointment of directors. That might come close to my proposal to elect a board directly. Now that happens in a rather shadowy way through a supervisory board. Especially when it comes to the departure of drivers who, according to students and teachers, are not doing well, you have no chance at all. Has Mr Mohandis thought about this too? How can one arrange such participation so that students and teachers really get a vote on the board that is shaping their university and that it does not need to be regulated through a shadowy supervisory board?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u144	I've definitely thought about that. I read your proposal. It's got interesting things in it. There are also issues that I do not directly agree with, for example a proposal that the Minister should no longer be responsible for the system, but that he should be responsible for everything that could go wrong at institutional level. You need to clearly outline who's controlling and who's supervising. We can strengthen counterpower, participation and control along many lines. For example, when appointing directors, a student member may take part in an application procedure either through participation or on a proposal. There are several ways to be imagined. I think it is even more important that the UVA committees should work to see what is possible. Let those committees do their job. I'm sure we'll get points that we like. Then we can see what the next step is. As you know, we have made proposals before. Think about the student assessor. There are therefore several ways to put students in position.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u145	Finally, Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u146	I hear from Mr Mohandis' reply that he still wants to look at it quietly and wait for the UVA committees. That in itself is very interesting. I also have another question. I haven't heard from Mr Mohandis about perverse incentives, out-of-the-box returns, real estate and so on. How does the Labour Party view this? These matters ensure that universities remain graduate factories. Does he agree with me that we should get rid of the performance contracts in which the institutions are being hunted down to take students through the training, especially when it comes to the performance requirements in the performance contracts?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u147	I certainly wanted to devote time to this, but as far as I am concerned today it was mainly about the ownership of students. Before the summer we get a general discussion about the midterm review of the performance agreements. Then we'll think about it for a little longer. I do not share with you that performance agreements consist only of return requirements. There's quality agreements in there, too. I fully endorse that. You know me, I have already objected to a binding study advice in later years and tuition fees differentiation for the honours tracks. In short, we will look very critically at how the new agreements are being implemented. This will determine our vote on the way in which higher education will be organised in the future in terms of quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u148	I have two questions for Mr Mohandis. The first is actually a re-question to the question he has asked many other colleagues whether the Maagdenhuis has not yielded much. Was it wise now that socialist MPs, including his own colleague Mrs Vos...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u149	Yeah, me, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u150	... and perhaps he himself, too, dared to be photographed in Mrs. Gunning's unbroken boardroom? Can Mr Mohandis reflect on that? How does he feel about that? What example does he give as a parliamentarians or give his colleagues to society and young people?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u151	This scares the hell out of me. This means that Mr Mohandis does not distance himself from that culture of "your laws, not ours" that is supported by squatters and activists of this kind and in which his partymates and other colleagues have actively participated in this house. Mr Mohandis seems to be fine with this, because it can achieve a higher good. It scares me, because we sometimes talk about a moral compass here. I wonder if that moral compass at the Labour Party still works well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u152	It's very interesting to zoom in at the time. In the first days, an occupation started in Amsterdam. There were demonstrations and everything related to them. Of course, these things have given rise to some doubt in the first few days. What exactly does this mean? How big is this gonna be? Is it ten students who find something or are they more? Does it live wider? Is this about issues that we need to take seriously? Do we have to make proposals for it? I choose the latter. That also has to do with what you see and hear and what solutions are needed. I made a proposal to the training committees. You're talking about a moment in the boardroom. I wasn't there. I also estimate you won't be told about this. I think you're ignoring the following. If you want to change something in society, you can do it with action and protest. There are other ways to do it. If things have happened that can't, we have the triangle. Justice must act if things have happened that are not allowed to happen. However, you ignore the fact that action and protest also lead to change. You should know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u153	I am surprised that the CDA spokesperson is starting to talk about morality, precisely at the points he finds more complicated. How do you respond to a movement that eventually led to many protesters? It was much more than the 20 Mr Rog referred to in his own speech who wanted change. It was a lot more teachers and participation at all levels who really wanted change and who wanted drivers to listen. You can't dismiss it as something small in which we would have participated. De Rog is now asking me a specific question about a colleague of mine who has been there and about how she has experienced it, but he really needs to ask her that directly. However, Mr Rog ignores the fact that this has created something wider than just zooming in on a boardroom. Once again, if things have happened that cannot be tolerated and if there are perpetrators, we have a rule of law in this country. It is not up to us or Mr Rog to judge who was wrong and who should be punished.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u154	Your last interruption, Mr. Rog.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u155	I'll take note of that. This shows something about the moral compass I was talking about. I would like to put another substantive question to Mr Mohandis. I would like to talk about another member of his party, Mr Dijsselbloem, who has separated a report. One of its recommendations was that changes, system changes, should take place with broad support, including in society. I wonder whether I should not regard the proposals put forward by Mr Mohandis today as an incident policy. Does Mr Mohandis agree with me that we should first examine carefully and ensure broad support for the wider than just the UvA and the UvA research groups to see if, and if so, what changes need to be made?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u156	I would like to have a little more clarity. What proposals does Mr Rog refer to, which he qualifies as symbolic measures or incident measures? Is that the right of assent for training committees? Is that what he's talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u157	No, I'm certainly not talking about symbolism. I am talking about proposing concrete changes to the law right now, including the right of assent. My question to Mr Monhandis is whether we should first look at it more broadly in the university world. I do not have the impression that this type of change is now considered necessary in the full breadth of the academic world. So my question is: shouldn't we, bearing in mind Dijsselbloem, first look carefully at it and look for broad support throughout the field and not stare blindly at what happened at the UvA?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u158	On the contrary, this proposal is broader. With Dijsselbloem in mind, I have just looked at all the discussions and all the debates that came out, also in connection with the Virgin House. Where's the pain now? What could you amplify? My proposal is supported by student organisations, but also by domes of participation. They have also indicated that, if you want to give training committees a formal position, you really need to think about the right of consent, the right of advice and the formalisation of the interlocutor, so that you really give students and teachers, who are very close to that training process, a position. So not just talk along, but also decide along. That support is, in my view, broader. Mr Rog knows me; I make proposals which have broad support and otherwise I will not do them. I also appeal to Mr Rog. I'd like to send him some more information, but there's that broader support. It would be nice if we could also count on his support next Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u159	This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u160	Mr. Chairman. It is good that we are having a debate today on higher education in general, on a number of different issues and on a number of issues that have occurred recently. I will start with a few general comments about the situation at the UvA over the last few months, the relationship with a number of general developments and my vision of education. Then I will deal with a number of questions that have to do with profitability thinking in general. Then I will answer all the questions that relate to the humanities and languages. Next, I deal with everything that has to do with governance culture and participation. Finally, some shorter questions have been asked about the relationship with performance agreements and housing. That's about it. I have made an extensive higher education tour throughout the Netherlands over the last few months. I have always talked about the most important issues for me for the future. We have also asked students what they think is the biggest task for higher education. We had made a top five and asked them what they would put on number one. There are bildung and personal development. I am convinced that this is really an important message for administrators and for me; we need to shape it in higher education. This means that quality is central in a broad sense. So it is not just a question of transferring knowledge, but also of preparing students for HBO and university for a future that is becoming more and more dynamic, which is changing very quickly and which is not just about today's knowledge, but also about dealing with complex situations that they may encounter later. Studying is therefore more than just a transfer of knowledge. Studying is also about person formation and socialization. We need to put the student at the centre of higher education and give the teacher more space to teach that can contribute to that bildung, that development of students. I think that we can take a very big step in this process with the introduction of the study advance. I note that this debate is about many subjects and that there is a great deal of division within the Chamber on the assessment of a number of developments. Sometimes it is about matters such as my signature on the lifting of small studies or on the right of assent of training committees. These are all quite important matters, but I think that the really great task lies in improving the quality of education. I am glad that we are able to take a really big step forward in this respect with the study advance. This means that students, who lose something in this, namely their scholarship, must have a very important role in the development of future education. At the same time, however, they also have a responsibility, including in terms of citizenship. These are young, talented people who can attend higher education. They may be asked to contribute to society and improve the quality of higher education. I agree with everyone who says that Mr Bishop, Mr Schouten and Mr Van Meenen have said that higher education is a value community, in which students and teachers experience the space for passion, diversity, and learning and experimenting, and in which there is a sense of mastery of their own development. I myself have referred to this in the press as more attention to bildung, involvement and citizenship. I agree with Mrs Schouten that it is also about the wealth of life and meaning. Higher education is not just a supply company or engine for the knowledge-based economy, although, of course, we also have to prepare students for the labour market, but higher education is more. It is that academic community that is shaped by students, teachers and administrators, each with their own responsibility. A university is about education and research and asks for an academic culture in which reflection and contradiction are appreciated. But the academic world is not separate from a society. Study progress and study success go hand in hand with a thriving learning community in which students can develop. During the higher education tour I also said that this calls for critical students. I have sometimes said: what we need are competent rebels, creative cross-thinkers and constructive no-sayers. And that, you could say, I also knew in a certain way. See the events in Amsterdam! The concrete reason for the occupation was the fear of the disappearance of the small language studies at the UvA. However, the protests have widened to concerns brought together under the term "efficiency thinking" and concern about participation and administrative culture in higher education. I have tried, with a certain distance, to form a complete picture of what has happened, in particular, at the University of Amsterdam. That is why I have spoken with many different sections. I spoke with the board of directors and the supervisory board of course, but I also spoke with the students and teachers of the faculty of humanities, with researchers, with members of the participation and with representatives of the new university Humanities Rally and Re Think UvA. I think, quite frankly, that there is no need for us to dwell very much on the specific events in Amsterdam today. I did not take that from the questions put by the various Members either. I have already sent several parliamentary letters on this subject, and I have also answered several series of parliamentary questions from political groups. As far as I am concerned, we need to talk in particular about the discussions that have opened up the occupation of the Virgin House in the public debate. I note that these developments in Amsterdam are not isolated. Concerns about a governance culture and the side effects of the focus on return play a broader role. They play more widely in other universities and they play more widely in higher education. I could even say that they play wider throughout education and beyond. I have also pointed this out before. I also pointed out in the letters on Amarantis the adverse aspects of what was introduced at the time as new public management. We need to learn from that, too. That means we have to think of a university and a college as a university and a college, and not as something else. I note that this discussion about return is actually also about a broader feeling of discontent, despite the fact that students are generally very satisfied today. That's striking, isn't it? Look at the national student survey. They've never been as satisfied as they are now. And yet there is an undercurrent of commentary. Mr Van Meenen also spoke about this. From this perspective, I look at the developments in Amsterdam and in higher education. Mr Van Dijk asked if I was grateful to the occupying forces. Mr Beertema actually asked the question the other way around. So did Mr. Rog. No, I'm looking at it with a distance. Of course, it is very unfortunate that it has come to such a long line-up. I wish I hadn't seen that either. I also note that such an occupation also attracts a lot of groups who may have a little less discussion about the study. Mr Duisenberg, Mr Rog and Mr Beertema asked whether the damage would be recovered from the perpetrators. The €500,000 represents an initial estimate of the total cost of the occupation in Amsterdam. I have already mentioned in my letter of 29 April that the final costs are currently being incurred by the University of Amsterdam. They will also be made public in due course. The UvA is still examining the extent to which the damage can be recovered and whether privacy-sensitive information has come into the hands of the occupying forces. Mr. Chairman. I would like to make a few general comments on the so-called return thinking and on what that stands for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u161	The Minister gives an account of the events and says: let us talk about the bigger issues. That is fine. However, I think it is important for the Minister to state her position explicitly. That's what I asked her. It may reject it, as certain parties do, and it may approve it. I would very much like to know exactly where the Minister stands. Does it share my view that all this protest of students has led to a tremendously positive development and to a fundamental discussion about the function of universities, about profitability thinking and about the lack of participation? Does she share that opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u162	I will come back to that in detail, because I am going to talk about efficiency thinking. I'm not done talking about that. This was a very brief introduction to the question of how this debate relates to other developments. I referred you to my own higher education tour. A lot of these themes that are now emerging have not suddenly emerged in the last few weeks. They've been playing for a long time. The debate on participation has been going on for a long time. I'll give you the law on reinforcements soon. You don't just get it. You know how it is with a law: I haven't put it together in a few weeks. I want to take away the image as if the occupation of the Virgin House has been decisive. I'm also seeing developments at other universities. I see developments at colleges where it has actually been relatively quiet. I don't want to trivialize it, because it did hit that undercurrent. That's my nuanced answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u163	The Minister can find anything. I just want an answer to the question: do you think that the occupation, weighing everything, has had a positive effect on balance or a negative effect?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u164	I answered that. You do not like my answer, but I do not answer yes or no. I think it's more nuanced.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u165	At least €500,000 of damage has been done. It could be even more. The Minister says she still needs to see how this ends. Before we finish this subject, it might be good to discuss it. Did the University of Amsterdam report it to the police? How's the investigation going? Is the D.A. still active in this? As far as I know, a large part of the occupying forces are known by name. I can imagine that there will be persecution and I can also imagine that the Minister insists that this be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u166	That's a matter for the UvA. I don't have the answer to that. I have just indicated that we are now considering the cost of the occupation. The relationship with the D.A. is also really a matter of the University of Amsterdam.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u167	I do think you're aware of whether or not there has been a complaint against Indians.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u168	No, that is a matter for the University of Amsterdam to decide. I can take note of what one does. I can also take note of the fact that the case is being dismissed. I know that the University of Amsterdam initially asked for periodic penalty payments. This is really a matter of the UvA.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u169	I'm gonna keep going at that point anyway. The Minister finds the issue for the UvA. A lot of the execution takes place locally, of course. But it is also a question for the Minister, because it is about education money. My question to the Minister is: will she ensure that the UvA will lead to the maximum story of these costs on the illegal occupiers?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u170	That's not up to me. That's a trade-off the university has to make. The university is an independent and autonomous organisation. I'm not the one talking about that. I can't force the university to do what it has to do in any case. It is up to the university, in consultation with the students, the occupiers, to consider whether there is reason to report or to believe that, after everything that has happened, that is not going to help to get the peace back at the institution. That is a question of a private relationship between students and the university. If the UvA placed an account with me, it would be another case. Then I will have a discussion with the University of Amsterdam. I now know that people are taking stock of the cost of the occupation. At some point, when the dust has descended, I'm sure I'll have another conversation with the board of directors and/or the supervisory board. Furthermore, it is no different from any other occupation and the party occupied in consultation with the Public Prosecutor and the authorities, in this case the mayor. I didn't think it was wise to interfere more than necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u171	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u172	I think this is a very formalistic answer. We are talking here about educational money made available by this ministry and ultimately raised by the taxpayer. Does the Minister think that the approach of the University of Amsterdam should be to ensure that the costs are fully recovered from these illegal occupiers?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u173	This is a consideration that the University of Amsterdam has to make. I found earlier that the first occupation of the Bungehuis required the University of Amsterdam to have periodic penalty payments. Next, the institution must consider whether everything should be used to demand those periodic penalty payments or whether this would have so many adverse effects on the peace of the university and the subsequent occupation, that it would be better not to do so. The whole of responsibility for the continuity of education can prevail. These are trade-offs. I don't want and I can't get involved in that. I would like to go into consultation with the University of Amsterdam once again, at the moment the dust has descended and one has a final overview of the total costs and of the image of the relationship with the occupiers, to hear what the UvA thinks is the final picture of the whole.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u174	This is going, I don't think, well. The minister says the UvA hasn't deposited an account with her. This is the situation if the damage is not recovered from the occupying forces. It's as simple as that. This minister is responsible not only for the system, but also for the expenditure of taxpayers' money for higher education. The taxpayer, with the agreement of the House of Representatives, has earmarked this money for higher education. If it's gonna pay for this kind of damage, we're gonna have a problem. I think the Minister should intervene on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u175	That starts with having to have an overview of what the occupation cost. This is not yet known at the University of Amsterdam. At all events, the question is who is to be held responsible for what, because we have all noticed that there were sometimes different groups present. It's much more of a legal question. The UvA's board of directors will eventually have to consider how far they want to go. This is without prejudice to the fact that educational resources should go to education and that I hope that the costs of the UvA will ultimately be limited. However, I cannot say that I can force the university board to tell you that. That's not legal either. You can't ask me to do that. I understand that you want to know something about this and I am prepared to inform the Chamber in some time, after I have talked extensively with the UvA, about the costs and about what further considerations and actions the UvA has undertaken to recover these costs from students, but that is something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u176	I can already say that this is not enough for my group. So let them say in the front. I note that the Minister is right to intervene and use big words when it comes to wasting money on directors. The CDA has also supported it in the past to intervene and to see whether money can be recovered. In this case, a judgment has been given twice by a judge, an evacuation order has been issued and the squatters are still sitting. Frankly, I hear that the Minister is just looking away, and I do not think that is a careful way of dealing with taxpayers' money.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u177	I'm also trying to do it legally carefully. You can say that it is not a careful way of dealing with taxpayers' money, but if I had interfered with every decision taken at the UvA, I would have gone against everything I hear from you all here: that we should have confidence in institutions and that there should be much more conversation between teachers and students. Of course I've been following closely what happened. I have also looked very closely at whether the continuity of education is at risk, but I do not think that any intervention from me would have helped to restore peace there. However, I would be happy to answer in greater detail the Court's questions about the consequences, including in the financial and legal sense, in due course. Moreover, I have already answered some of your questions in writing. I'm gonna keep going where I left off. Mr Bishop asked a very interesting question. It's also a question to think about tonight. How are you gonna be happy? That is indeed a good question. The answer was, if I understood him correctly, by not expressing everything in return. I think I agree with him. I just told Mrs. Schouten. Life is about more than efficiency and about things that we can quantify and produce that economic benefit. Precisely that kind of thinking is often understood under the term "efficiency thinking." It is a widely used term in recent times, including in the public debate, but it means very different things. Sometimes the image of universities and colleges appears as learning factories, in which teachers and students no longer feel the owner of education. I heard that a bit from the corner of GroenLinks. Others think, in terms of return, of the funding of an education, which is reduced as the number of students declines. It is also thought of the image that national policy is mainly directed towards rapid graduation and that quality is then measured by quantitative indicators. I have heard the economicization of education in the social debate come to my attention, the study advance is also mentioned. I hear the term 'efficiency thinking' in general also in other sectors. In short, the idea of efficiency is a rather big one, but what do we really mean by that? Let me make it clear what I understand. I have not, and I have said so publicly, any warm feelings about return thinking. The picture is that in higher education it would only be about getting as many students as possible graduating as quickly as possible, in order to obtain immediate economic benefits. Research would also be of economic benefit. That's an image I'm gonna distance myself from. For me, the quality of education and research is central. A university is indeed not a company and study success is not the same as graduating as soon as possible. Students must have the space to develop widely into critical and creative thinkers. They need to be able to feel connected with their training and more room for widening and deepening. That does not mean that I think the measures mentioned in one breath with a sense of profitability are all exemplary for this idea of profitability. I shall follow Mr Duisenberg in that. The funding for a training programme decreases as the number of students decreases. Yes, that is not so strange either, and that does not necessarily have to have immediate consequences for the training in question. The value of the training is not equal to the number of students undergoing it. Such a financial, one-sided economic perspective does not reflect the importance of training. However, I would like to add that the current lump sum financing institutions also offer the opportunity to use resources where they are most needed and to make their own choices. Settings are able to choose their own profile and create a desired future perspective. I would also say to Mr Van Dijk in particular that this cost of education is much less than in the past based on certification. There's always been a misunderstanding about that. It is sometimes thought that funding depends only on the number of diplomas. From 2011 onwards, the share of Diploma was reduced from 80% in the HBO's that is quite a lot of Diploma and from 50% in the wo to an average of 20% of the education cost. We ask institutions to offer studyable programs. However, this does not mean that there can be no room for widening and deepening. Offering studyable programs is therefore again not the same as yield. For example, the experiment performance agreements are not just a form of return thinking. I say to Mr Bishop that it is an experiment. The experiment has just started in order to make the quality of education more part of the funding system and not just to focus on student numbers and diplomas. These performance agreements were also designed in consultation with the institutions. You can think differently about that now, but it's not like they just came from return thinking. They arose from the idea that you also have to pay in other ways than just on the basis of the numbers of students or on the basis of a part of them, namely the numbers of diplomas. In the latter case, it is a question of graduation. We would like every student in the Netherlands to be able to get the best out of themselves in higher education. We also grant every student that he or she can leave the school with a nice diploma. Training then stands for quality. We have succeeded well, because we have given a lot of students the opportunity to go to higher education. I can say that Mr Beertema spoke out of my mouth on this point when he said that this is a degree of upliftment that is a major achievement. I totally agree with him. However, this great accessibility and this successful upliftment also pose new challenges. It leads to a very differentiated group of students. There are great differences in the extent to which these students are successful in obtaining a diploma. In this respect, if you look at returns, so just at the number of students who obtain a degree within a number of years, we see very large differences between groups of students. For example, the return in the HBO of boys from the MBO is very low after five years. Then there has been an extra year of study than it stands for. Furthermore, there are great differences between natives and non-Western immigrant boys; I stick to boys for a while. The study return of native boys with an MBO background studying in HBO is 50%. Of non-Western immigrant boys it is 36%. If I had mentioned the percentage for girls in the first instance, the difference would have been even greater. I don't think it's a form of return thinking if we make this negotiable. I think it is a great social problem that we are not able to get a lot of these guys to finish their education. It is not my idea, nor is it my reality, to include everything related to study success or the number of students who, within a number of years, obtain a diploma under "return thinking." I really don't think it's right to do the big job we have. This is also reflected in the unemployment figures. After a study, these figures are still much higher for immigrant students than for native students. After a scientific education, these figures are even twice as high. In my view, therefore, making an agreement on improving these figures has nothing to do with economics. It is a recognition of a social problem and it is an agreement to combat this inequality. In this way, we can ensure that, in future too, education for all students offers the opportunity to get the best out of themselves. This requires a lot of education, and that also requires differentiation. I will return to that in my strategic agenda. In general, however, I would like to point out that efficiency or study success must be the result of a system that combines accessibility and emancipation with quality. Studies success and efficiency must be the result and not the other way around. They're not goals in themselves. I therefore agree with Mr Duisenberg when he says that 'efficiency' and'studies success' are not dirty words. However, we have to state exactly what we are talking about. We can also talk a lot here about distribution systems and funding. I would like to point out and emphasise that any system we have devised can create perverse incentives. There is no ideal system. It is mainly about how institutions deal with the system and with the resources they have and how they involve participation in it. Any kind of funding, no matter how beautiful we think of it here, can work differently within an institution than we might expect. For example, it is sometimes suggested to pay on the basis of registration, i.e. on the basis of the number of students seated, regardless of the duration of the study. This can also create a perverse incentive, for example to keep as many students on the training courses as long as possible. We don't want to. Not the size of the budget is the goal, but the quality of education that you can achieve with that budget. Of course, with more money you can further improve the quality. That is why I find the impetus we can give by introducing the study advance so extremely important. This quality improvement can only be achieved if you use the extra resources well, based on a clear vision of what education quality means. I will return to that in my strategic agenda. It's about the role of students. So I say to Mr Rog that I have already taken a hint of the veil on this issue. In my letter on the strategic agenda, I will come back to that investment agenda in greater detail. Return thinking also appeals to the feeling in higher education that there is almost no time left for good education, that precious time is wasted on administrative burdens and accountability and that professional autonomy is under pressure. From this concern I am looking for an answer to the question of how we can return ownership to those who make education. This also plays a role in the accreditation system. Was it not Mr Rog who asked when we would receive the letter on the accreditation system? I'm not sure anymore. Anyway, the letter will be coming very soon, probably in two weeks. Having said that, I would like to move on to the subject of humanities, particularly the debate on languages. Among the humanities or humanities, whatever you want to call it, we have a very broad field of scientific disciplines. This is often about the small languages, but the humanities are also about history, archaeology, the arts, literature, cultures, religions, ethics, gender studies, philosophy and also communication and media studies. A large proportion of these studies have a stable number of students and are financially sound, but there are also studies with a rapid decline in influx. This results in studies with only one or two students per year. This means that a handful of fellow students attend an entire Bachelor's degree programme with each other and almost always have the same teachers. I believe in small-scale education, but I wonder from the quality point of view whether this is the way to promote quality. It's about counting very small groups, sometimes on the fingers of a hand. You'll see a very small group of teachers for years. So I don't think that's the case. I think it is important to look closely at the humanities, because the problems are not from today but from a long time ago. In 2009 the report of the Committee-Cohen, Sustainable Humanities was published. The sector plan and the progress reports that have been made since then have consistently highlighted the great importance of humanities for society. Martha Nussbaum also writes in her essay Not for Profit................................................................................... Humanities are leading students to critical, independent, empathetic, innovative and creative citizens. Nussbaum writes that their proceeds are not in adding profits, but in adding value. That was something I had to think about when I heard Mrs Schouten say that sometimes humanities are useful, but they always make sense. Sense is important. We can't go there without it. I also note that the research shows that humanities are of high quality in the Netherlands. We have high-quality scientific education. In the Times Higher Education World University Rankings, six Dutch universities are among the top 100 in the field of doctor and humanities. Leiden University is at the 25th place and the University of Amsterdam on the 45th. The 2009 Sustainable Humanities Sector Plan of the Cohen Commission identified some major bottlenecks that have been in play in the sector for a long time. So that's more than just the number of students. This is also about the imbalance between time for research and education, limited opportunities for young researchers to flow through, the fragmentation of the training supply and the aforementioned small scale in many of these training courses. On the basis of the entire sector plan, the Humanities Board has been established and structuralally additional funds have been allocated to the humanities. From 2012 onwards, it amounts to 15 million a year. Mrs Schouten asked what happened with the funds for the fine print. I assume that she referred to the funds for small letters already allocated in the early 1990s, which amount to 10 million guilders. This has given an extra boost to small language training courses, especially those from outside Europe. Those resources have been added to the University's lump sum. They have thus been able to strengthen the training. In the first instance, this went through the training courses and then through the lumpsum. From 2012, through the Humanities Agency, we have 15 million resources, of which all faculties of humanities in the Netherlands will receive their share. The approach through the sectoral plan is basically until the end of this year. The management body will continue to exist until the end of 2016, in particular in order to implement the Action Plan on Languages. Mr Rog asked how long this body still existed. The answer is therefore: formal until the end of 2016. It is very important that we learn from the activities of the management body. As it happens, I was offered the evaluation of the sector plan this morning. This shows that there are many positive developments. There's been rejuvenation of the staff. There has been more room for young talent to flow through. We have worked on solutions for small scale through a better organisation of minors and more collaboration between faculties. An example of this is offering Italian as an elective in Art History. It has also been invested in better national cooperation between universities. That does not solve all the problems. So it could well be, as I say to Mrs Schouten, that the management body will be given a further task. We have now addressed some of the problems............................................................................................................................................................................................. In this connection, Mr Rog asked whether I should not have called upon the UvA earlier on what is going on there with reorganisation plans for the unique training courses. I replied to Mr Rog last November. I referred to the discussion I had with the VSNU on the new approach. In addition, I knew that there was still an internal discussion at the University of Amsterdam. There was talk of participation. Then it's not gonna help if I ride my bike through it from the outside. In my view, this would not help to improve confidence in an institution and promote participation. I then had the conversation with the director, the deans and the VSNU about a common vision that we need to develop around small languages. This has led to the conclusions in my letter and my request to further develop the vision for language training. The governing body, the deans and the VSNU are now working on this. The Chamber gets that vision after the summer. I can imagine that it will give rise to further reflections on possible follow-up steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u178	I'll come back to the role of the director. So the evaluation is obviously good. We don't know them yet. I don't know if the Chamber gets the evaluation, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u179	Not formally, but I can send the Chamber the evaluation. I actually want to try to discuss them together with the additional opinion on the languages that I get from them after the summer. However, I have no objection to sending the report to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u180	That would be really nice. I think it would be a good idea to discuss it together with the Additional Opinion. My second point concerns the role of the management body. The Minister leaves a bit open what will happen after 2016. She says it might be extended. What does that depend on as far as she is concerned? Does she agree with us that it makes sense to clarify this already, because we are now having this whole discussion about the position of the humanities?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u181	I would like to make that clear in the letter that I add to the advice I am still getting on the future of the small languages. Otherwise, I wouldn't do justice to that advice either. The director, the deans and the VSNU are now working on the advice. That's what I get in the summer. I'll send that to the Chamber with a response. I think that is also the time to answer the question of how to proceed with the management body, because that still exists until 2016.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u182	What are the criteria on which the Minister will assess whether it makes sense to continue with the management body?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u183	I shall begin with the question of how far we are with the ambitions I have just mentioned. There are: the relationship between time for research and education, the opportunities for young researchers to flow, the fragmentation of the training supply and, above all, the extent to which they can achieve good cooperation between universities and whether it helps. Such a directional organ is actually a kind of outboard engine. I can very well imagine that it can be useful that there is an organ that appeals to the deans and the institutions from the outside and asks: how do you actually do that, how do you make a choice and make sure that you also have a nationwide well-covering set of language courses?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u184	One of the proceeds of the occupation of the Maagdenhuis and all that has to do with it is to postpone the lifting of a number of courses at the UvA. If that had not happened, we would have lost some of those languages. Does the Minister agree with me that it is not possible for unique studies in the Netherlands to disappear in this area, as long as she is thinking and waiting for those opinions?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u185	Let me give you a more detailed answer on what we have already agreed. I made arrangements with the deans about what's going on in the humanities. At the UvA there is still a reorganisation, but at many other universities this has already happened and there is more innovation. I'll go over the language courses overall. How do we want language training to adapt to the requirements of our time? Where necessary, they should be protected, but I do not think that a language for which there are no students would deserve protection once and for all. The new chairman of the Academy is José van Dijck, Professor of Media Studies. It's very nice that this is someone from the humanities, to get variety into the Academy. She recently stated that the humanities are not an endangered species. There's no fence around it. I think that is an interesting statement. We shouldn't pretend that nothing should ever change in the humanities. Languages change, as do students' interest. This must also be taken into account by universities.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u186	I am not saying that every little study or language should be preserved forever. I only ask the Minister whether she also thinks that unique studies, such as language studies, should not disappear as long as she is working on her thinking about its future. Once we lift them, we lose them and then we come to the conclusion too late that we might have to retain some of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u187	This has nothing to do with the extension of the management body after 2016. I'm just trying to explain that we've already made agreements. They are inspired by how institutions deal with the elimination of language training. I have described this in detail in the letter on the languages.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u188	I understand that the Minister is right to stick to this excellent report. She quotes a lot from the vision of the future for the languages within the humanities in the Netherlands. She also talks about better cooperation between universities in the Netherlands. In my contribution, I asked a somewhat rhetorical question about this, because I am in favour of aligning and cooperating with institutions outside the Netherlands. Is the Minister willing to take this with him in a future approach?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u189	It's a complicated problem. If you'll allow me, I'd like to go back to the small languages. Then I will come to the answer to your question. We have said that much more coordination and cooperation is needed, starting with universities. You can see that there has really been investment in more national cooperation between universities, for example in the national project for a master language. The language courses of the different universities then work together in part of the curriculum. That's small-scale now. Mr Duisenberg asked about this cooperation. Mr Van Meenen asked about the S of the VSNU. This is a good example of cooperation. The managing body proposes to allocate earmarked funds to the institutions after 2015, in order to continue these national cooperation projects. A specific part of the humanities is language and cultural education. They're moving like hell. Students have different preferences, society is changing and institutions are happy to play into that. They are working with other universities or looking for them, as I say to Mr Duisenberg, international cooperation. Sometimes a training is stopped, as happened with Hungarian and Finnish in Groningen and Romanian at the University of Amsterdam. That is inevitable, as Mr Bertema said. You can't keep funding every study, even if it's just because of the quality for students. If you're sitting together with a few students and a few teachers, it's a question of whether you have a good education process. Apart from that, it is of course also very expensive and you cannot spend that money on perhaps a very large group of students elsewhere who may need individual guidance. In addition, language training is not only the learning of a language; it also includes literature, linguistic subjects and the connection with culture and history. Solutions are often sought to preserve these disciplines and make the studies more attractive to prospective students. Then you see that we still have a lot of languages in the Netherlands. In Leiden, Sanskrit, Tibetan and Indonesian have been joined together as parts of the broad Bachelor's degree in South and South-East Asian Studies. This includes the religions, politics and history of the region. In Utrecht, Arabic language and culture are embedded in the broad Bachelor of Islam and Arabic. Polish has long been part of the broad programme of Slavic languages and cultures at the University of Amsterdam. These studies often include a period of study abroad, precisely because there you can acquire the language like no other. Fortunately, this is possible nowadays, because studying abroad is much easier than it used to be. That is why I say to Mr Duisenberg that it is very important that we continue to step up this international cooperation which is taking place. We can also use digital aspects there. In this way you can already take a step in the study abroad, and certainly for all studies in European languages this is now quite possible. Well, that's gonna call for a tuning. For example, Leiden University has used part of the funding from the Sector Plan to allow students in a region study from outside Europe to spend a semester in Asia, Africa and the Middle East in that country. In my opinion, that is the way we should look to the future. So much is already being done to make the quality of training and research attractive to students and to increase quality. Each university does that in its own way. I just mentioned Leiden and Utrecht, where a number of things have been put together. Radboud University is doing something else. It puts disciplinary training at the heart of the matter. In particular, you can choose European languages. In Leiden and Groningen, it is precisely for broadening and for courses such as International Studies or Middle East studies, history, culture, language and literature are combined with knowledge from outside the humanities, such as economics or law. I had an interesting conversation with the director this morning. Mr Van Oostrom (PPE). - (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Van Oostrom on his excellent report. For example, if you want to study German, should you start with the literature from the Middle Ages or is it also useful to give your students something of German culture and perhaps start with it, so that they know something about Germany's place in the First and Second World Wars and about the fall of the Wall and then go from there to history? In other words, the world is on the move, so the languages are also on the move, as is the university. I really do not think we should go along with very conservative pleas to keep everything as it was. The interesting thing about the approach to regional studies, I say to Mr Grashoff and Mr Rog, is that you can combine subjects in this way. If at some point there is more interest in a part of one of those subjects, for example, Slavic languages and Polish come on a huge scale, you still have a basis from which you can easily organize the broadening and deepening. So you don't have to set up an entire study, but you're responsive. The WRR has said that not only the economy but also education must be responsive. In my opinion, this is a way to do that. I would like to say to Mr Rog that social considerations must of course play a part in abolishing training. We will retain a number of training courses. The classical school languages will always remain, as will the languages of the United Nations. Then we already have a good offer in the Netherlands. We have Dutch, English, French, German, classical languages Greek and Latin, Chinese, Russian, Spanish and Arabic. In addition, the universities guarantee an offer of the Frisian language and culture in Groningen. The universities indicate that they will continue to guarantee a wide range of languages. For example, Leiden University guarantees that it will continue to offer important languages of Latin America, Africa, the Middle East, South, Southeast and East Asia. For example, Swahili, modern Hebrew, Hindi and Egyptian. In the social debate, at some point, the impression has emerged that you can only learn five languages in the Netherlands, but nothing is less true. With good cooperation between universities and good international cooperation, we can ensure this in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u190	Are you done with this block?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u191	No, I'm a long way. I'm almost there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u192	Then I suggest we finish this before anyone interrupts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u193	I am confident that the process that we have now started and the agreements we have made can move along with the changes in society. In doing so, we encourage consultation between universities. In the event of a intention to substantially alter or terminate a unique training course, advice should always be sought from the deans, i.e. from the cooperating sister faculties. An opinion is also requested from the Rector's College and the Board of Directors. In the end, it's a decision of the university itself. It has responsibility for its own training offer. In this way, the choice process will become more transparent, also because all these opinions will be made public. The VSNU will report to me annually on the state of play. I'll discuss these developments with the VSNU. So, if necessary, I will also say that there is a great social relevance and ask for it to be regulated. In this way, I think it will be better than interfering and I will decide which languages should be guaranteed where. So I do play a role in this, but it is mainly about the conversation. My role is not to force institutions to do what I find useful. That is what I would need if I were not to have the confidence that, with the agreements made, with the promises made by the universities and with the management body that keeps an eye on the future, we would be able to look forward with confidence. A large part of your Chamber also wants us to rely on trust and give room to institutions. The same applies to this, but we do need to have the debate on it with each other. If there were ever to be a cessation of training which the Chamber wonders whether that is desirable, we could discuss this. I will now reply briefly to a number of specific questions. Mr. Bishop asked if Hebrew should not stay. However, this is not a unique programme, because besides the full bachelor's degree at the University of Amsterdam, Hebrew is also fully offered in Leiden, but in another programmatic context, namely within the Middle East Studies programme. If Hebrew is in danger of disappearing as a full-fledged education, it will be included in the process that I have described in detail in my letter and that I have repeated here in general terms. Mr Mohandis asked whether we should not then draw up a sectoral plan. Actually, we already have that for all the universities. So we have also made process agreements about ending unique training courses. I will be well informed by the VSNU. Mrs Schouten asked about the relationship between unique studies and the efficiency discussion. Apart from the cooperation between universities and the VSNU, there are, of course, also the considerations that the institution itself can make. Institutions can find a field of expertise so important that they want to maintain training with lump sum funding and additional resources for languages, even if it has a low influx. I take with me the questions of the SGP and the Christian Union about the relationship with the Science Agenda, because they have already been raised to a large extent in the debate on the vision of science. Let me say first of all that in research too the humanities matter very much. Mr Bishop talked about the NWO and the fact that the sciences there are squeezed into two domains and the beta technique in six. The NWO recognises this danger and tries to give humanities as much input as possible into funds and thus into general policy. In the meantime, this has also changed: the humanities domain of the NWO is going to create a roadmap for smart culture, for which one can claim general resources; there is a grant of 12 million to the CLARIAH programme "digital humanities," and the imbalance in the domains in the renewal impulses has been recognised in the reorganisation of the NWO. Humanities are also very involved in the development of the Science Agenda. I cannot actually imagine a Science Agenda that would not also cover history, cultural elements and imagination. From that perspective, humanities are very important. A lot of response to the Science Agenda has also come from that angle. Mr Bishop also asked about the financing model of research. Making it more stable, we've already done it. In the science vision, we discussed this extensively. This will enable universities, more than now, to develop long-term pathways in the future. And with that one can give important studies, which may be small after all, a place if one wishes. This brings me to the end of all questions relating to humanities and languages.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u194	The Minister spoke at some point of a plea that would emerge from the Chamber for a conservative approach, which should by definition remain something as it was. My name was mentioned, but also that of a number of other colleagues. After I had let that get to me, I wondered if I would have experienced a different debate than the Minister. Because I didn't hear anyone say that here. I did not hear Mr Beertema say it, but I did not hear the others say it either. One of the reasons for this debate was that care in dealing with small courses, at least in the run-up to the Virgin House occupation, was not there. that there was at least serious doubt about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u195	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u196	Does the Minister not wrongly blame the Chamber, or a number of Members of the Chamber, among whom I am, for a conservative attitude, when this has not been said at all? Isn't it the other way around? Has the Minister, with her whole reasoning, really built in guarantees that there are not only a few times, but always careful?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u197	When I spoke about conservatism, I spoke not so much about the Chamber as about the social debate that arose in connection with the languages. I have heard many times in public debates that there would be almost no language studies in the Netherlands. I really think that's a misconception. Sometimes I have also got the impression that a language, whatever language, may also be a language that is given as part of a wider regional study.... should never be given another place. I would like to point out that language studies also have to do with changes and that this does not harm at all. I'm glad the Chamber agrees with me. We have made a number of safeguards procedural in order to prevent a decision from being taken. This must be carefully considered, not only from the point of view of historical heritage and cultural interest, but also from the point of view of student interest and the question of how to deal with language training today. We haven't completely secured it yet. It is not for nothing that I get a vision from the governing body on the languages. I'm gonna get it this summer. Then we can conclude this discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u198	Finally, I'd like to say a few words.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u199	The Minister's exposé contains a number of procedural guarantees, but not an ultimate guarantee. Is it not desirable that the central participation body at university level should have the right of consent at that time to abolish or merge training?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u200	Participation has a role to play in whether or not to stop training, but that is mainly participation at faculty level. I do not so much see the added value of decision-making at the central level. If a balance is to be made between faculties, participation at the central level has something to do with this. During the debate on the humanities at the University of Amsterdam, I indicated that I very much appreciated the fact that the discussion would also take place there with the participation of students and teachers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u201	The Minister has spoken about a few safeguards, as she calls them. She said, for example, that in the event of a real change or termination of the study of a small language, the dean and the management body are asked for advice. What happens, however, if they advise anything other than the administration of the university in question? What is the situation then? In addition, the Minister said that she felt that the Chamber could discuss it if it considered it undesirable. I wonder what we are going to talk about if the decision-making process is confined to that one board of directors.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u202	We've made court agreements. The VSNU, deans and directing bodies are talking about that. If the decision to substantially alter or eliminate a unique training is taken, advice shall be sought. In many cases, other universities and deans will say that there may be a good proposal for this training. Perhaps she could be given a place elsewhere, either in regional studies or in another degree programme at the university concerned. Another university can also say that it will take over. Then there's not that much going on. In any event, the opinion shall be made public. If the opinion is different, it will lead to a discussion at that university. For the time being, I do not see any added value in the possibility that I would have a sharp position in this, because then everyone will look directly at me and there will be no good debate between universities. Then the "S" of the VSNU, which Mr Van Meenen is so keen to emphasize, becomes an "M" of Minister. Everyone's looking at the minister. I believe, on the contrary, that it is very important for the universities to have this conversation with each other and to consider it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u203	In my view, too, it is an ideal world for us to decide, in consultation with each other and with similar advice, whether or not to abolish training, but that is not the ideal world, certainly not because there are all kinds of financial interests involved. I really do not understand how the Minister can say that we can still talk about it if there is a decision that the Chamber does not like. My question is then: if the Minister has no competence, what can we, as a Chamber, talk about?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u204	I mean that, in my view, there will be a social debate. If that's so serious, it'll come back to a university. But the decision-making power lies with a university. This applies to all training courses. I think we should be careful not to take too much of that responsibility. However, there must be clear agreements on cooperation. Again, the VSNU will report to me. On that basis, I would also like to look at how this is going. If this leads to situations in which we, like society, think that things should be different, then we should have that discussion at the time. However, I do not think it is appropriate to close this in advance in all possible ways.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u205	I don't think we're asking for the latter. We do not want to close everything in advance. It's the last resort. At a time when this wide-ranging social debate shows that there is still a need for training, we still have a guarantee that we will be able to maintain this training in one way or another, whether or not in cooperation with other universities. It's the last lock on the door. Let me say that. It's not the beginning of the discussion. Then what is the Minister afraid of?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u206	I would like to avoid that if there is any intention at a faculty to change a course, for example by placing it in a regional study, or to abolish it, the discussion will be moved immediately to The Hague. Then I take over the direction without a discussion between the participation and a faculty and between universities. That conversation has to take place there. Is there any student interest? Does the training fit in with the research areas? Do we have good contacts with international universities? I want to avoid the discussion here about any training that is going to be stopped. In my opinion, that will happen if the responsibility lies with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u207	There are very specific talks here about unique studies. It would then be the "last of the studies." Let me put it this way. So it can't be that we're going to discuss all the studies here. At the moment when a university immediately runs here, the minister has the greatest right to say: boys, go have a good time with each other or with the universities! Surely there is a solution to that without throwing that last straw overboard?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u208	I'll reverse the question. Where does the fear of the Chamber arise that the procedural arrangements we have now reached would lead to derailments? I think that we have now made good agreements, which will ensure that you provide adequate protection on the one hand and can be sufficiently responsive on the other. If that is not the case, then the first step should be that this kind of risk would be reflected in the report on the small languages that I have yet to receive from the Humanities Board this summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u209	What exactly is the status and competence of the management group? Does it, at some point, have power of perseverance within certain frameworks to ensure certain choices or not? How does the Minister view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u210	I consider the control organ more like an outboard engine. It is a group that has no interests, but can look closely at the various institutions. They are "critical friends," so to speak, who the humanities know as no other. They can question the faculties critically. We often talk about trusting each other and checking less and making fewer rules. We must ask ourselves in advance how far we want to go in this, if we do not yet have the signal that the procedural arrangements we have made would not work. I would like to return to this discussion once again, but then I will do so once I have been given the supervisory vision of the governing body of the languages. I don't have one yet. If this proves that there are also concerns in the management body that unique training would go away wrongly, because of certain mechanisms such as efficiency thinking or whatever, then perhaps we should ensure more. I propose that I reflect on this question in my letter on the future of the languages, which I will send in the summer. I'm going to do that on the basis of any signals that have been given, because I don't really want to make rules if it's not necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u211	On this point, the Minister finds the SGP fully on her side. We'll cover her massively, but it's a matter of concern. Anything can be detected in a management body, but if no follow-up is given by the organisations involved, anything can go wrong. However, there is a concern about the small studies, the languages. That's what I'm tasting from my colleagues. I think it is a good proposal from the Minister to come back, reflect and evaluate, at the moment when the vision is there, in the vein of: have we arranged this well and have we secured it well? I'm saying this in confidence that this is going to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u212	I propose that the Minister continue and conclude her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u213	I come to speak on the issue of governance culture and participation. A lot has been said about that. I think we agree that universities and colleges can only provide good education if students and teachers are involved. That's the academic community I was talking about. This involvement can take shape in different ways. It can be done in a formal sense, including through legislation and regulation, but it can also be done informally, simply by having the right conversation. Participation in the formal form of participation, whereby members are democratically elected and represent the interests of students and employees, is one form of participation. It can be done through central participation, faculty participation or training committees. I am always pleased with Mr Duisenberg, who repeatedly draws attention to the training committees. There is also informal participation and a culture of involvement. I'd like to make sure we're just making new rules. Perhaps I can recall the adadium and conclusion of the report of the Halsema Committee, written on the occasion of Amarantis, here again. It said that we can never, with all the rules, prevent a problem from arising somewhere. The most important thing is that the good conversation is held, and sometimes a difficult conversation. Mr Bishop said otherwise: we have a lot of tools, let us use them better. Formal participation doesn't solve everything. I heard Mr Bertema say that too. It is of the utmost importance that we not only make rules, but that we also improve the culture in order to have that conversation. Recently, we've made new rules. With the Higher Education Advances Act, the position of participation has been strengthened with the right of assent on the main lines of the budget. Mr Van Meenen asked about this. The law has entered into force. I believe it was in the State's news at the beginning of April. I sent a letter to all the universities and colleges of higher education this spring to begin with this agreement on the broad lines of the budget, because next year's budget is already being prepared. The way in which this is done has been left open, because these processes are not the same in all universities and colleges and sometimes definitions change. I regularly discuss with sectoral councils and student councils how that goes. Next, before the summer, the Chamber will receive the bill for strengthening administrative power. This will shape and strengthen participation by providing more participation in the appointment of directors, as well as in the making of the profiles of directors. The task of the training committees will also be strengthened. This must not only be about legislation, but also about culture. I've made a number of arrangements about that. I have asked ISO for a grant and I have offered a grant to start a participation monitor with the institutions and other student associations for a longer period of time and to organise the Day of Participation. The monitor will be presented this year on 17 June during the first day of participation. Institutions and participation councils can mirror each other on that day and give feedback and they can best exchange practices. Such an initiative fits in well with the evaluation of the 2013 Wet Reinforcement Control Act, which concluded that the legal basis was actually in order, but that the culture could still be strengthened. I am therefore looking for ways to strengthen that culture. I encourage institutions, above all, not to take the minimum requirements of the law as a maximum, nor to look for other forms of participation that are appropriate to the institution concerned. I agree with Mr Van Meenen that this should be the first step. I see several and good examples of this. D66 and PvdA ask about the student assessor in the PvdA's motion. I believe that this is a "one" way of further shaping participation, but also that it will only work well with the student assessor if it is shared within the academic community. Groningen has had good experiences with it, but this is not the only model. I see other models, too. In Delft they work massive open online deliberates, in Twente they have the model of the students union and in Utrecht, very interesting, is working with a student panel based on draw. In short, a lot is happening, especially at universities. In particular, I would like to develop these initiatives further and give them the opportunity to grow up. I'm also saying this because I still have the evaluation of the Wet reinforcement control, which I just mentioned, in my head. It is often more about culture than about legal changes. I can also see that a great many institutions, including Amsterdam, have had extensive discussions. I would like to comment on a number of specific questions. Mr Van Meenen asked whether half of the Supervisory Board could not be nominated by students. The Supervisory Board has a large and important mission to control the administration of the university or college. This should include people who have earned their spurs and can look longer than one or two years. These may well be students and teachers, but it has not been said that they must necessarily be students and teachers. Normally, participation is a nomination for a member of the Supervisory Board. In addition, participation is given the right to advise on the profiles on the basis of which members of the Supervisory Board are selected. This seems to me to be a better way than putting students and teachers in, but obviously there must be people on the supervisory board who understand education. Also of other things, by the way, for example housing, but certainly also of education.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u214	Before I give Mr Van Meenen the floor for his last interruption, I would like to know how much time the Minister thinks he needs to answer the remaining questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u215	Ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u216	We also have a second deadline, and I can see Members walking around with motions for resolutions. Then we all know what awaits us. Mr Van Meenen, please be brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u217	Contrary to what the Minister may think, it is not my intention to appoint students and teachers on the Supervisory Board but to give them the opportunity to propose more than now. I also assume that they will understand that there must be people with knowledge of education and other things in it. But my question to the Minister is actually: does she agree with me that in the case of the UvA at least the supervisory board has been completely absent?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u218	No, I don't agree with you. I have also been in contact with the Supervisory Board and I have found that it has finally played its role.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u219	Perhaps the Minister could elaborate on that. If she means that the Supervisory Board has finally agreed to the departure of the Chairman of the Management Board, that seems to me to be a little lean. Does she not agree that a supervisory board also has a public function to express itself about what is happening at its university?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u220	I think the Supervisory Board did that at some point. The members of the Board have also listened to all sections. I think it is very important for the Supervisory Board not only to listen to a board of directors, but above all to understand what is going on in a university. I have the impression that they have done quite well in Amsterdam, at least I have not received any signals from the contrary. Mr Mohandis and Mr Van Meenen asked about the directors in lectures. Those too must have a sense of education, but it has not been said that it will always go well. Look at the University of Amsterdam. There were no less than four professors with an academic background, and yet it did not go well. That indicates that it's not all that simple. It's not like: if you have this or that, it's okay, and if you have sister and stuff, it's not going well. I have already said a few things about the training committee. I very much support the professionalisation of the training committee. I therefore also support the strengthening of the role of the training committee. It appears in the Act strengthening administrative power educational institutions. This means that the training committees also have a role to play in the internal quality management systems. Mr Duisenberg advocates greater quality of training committees. I couldn't agree more. He wants to strengthen transparency, and I agree with that. I do wonder whether this should be done through the study leaflet, because it will then be a very complicated administrative process. I also support Mr Mohandis' comment on the training committee. Training committees already have an important role to play, for example in completing training. Then the faculty council is again on the table. So I've actually said all the necessary things about that. The training committee is about the training, the faculty committee is about the removal of training courses and central participation is about matters that are broader than one faculty. I think we can have the debate on strengthening the training committees when we discuss the Law on strengthening the administrative power of educational institutions. I think that is also true of Mr Van Meenen's proposal for research into the possibility of tuition and driving. It is particularly important that students are encouraged to participate. If I understand correctly, Mr Van Meenen also wants them to have a good understanding of what they are entitled to. On that point, I made a commitment to the First Chamber at the request of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance there. I have promised that we will also map out what rights there are for students in total. We'll take this with us in there. I can also imagine that this is a theme that is discussed in the participatory monitor. That monitor will be presented by ISO on 17 June. Mr Van Dijk wants an election of the board. I am very much in favour of more participation, but I do not think that elections will, of course, guarantee good governance. Such a thing would also have extremely serious consequences. The introduction of elections does not always have positive consequences either. Some Flemish universities have this system and I hear a lot of complaints about it. I hear, for example, that rectors are always provided by large faculties. In fact, I think universities are now working very well on all those examples that I have just mentioned. I will answer very briefly the question about performance and quality agreements. I have already told Mr Bishop that the performance agreements are an experiment. After the evaluation of this experiment, we will discuss the design of the quality agreements. How are you gonna do that? How much should return play a role in this? Does this have to be funded or not? We'll come back to all that later. However, I would like to point out that performance agreements are also very limited in terms of return. Mr Duisenberg said this very clearly in his speech. I would also like to say that a few years ago we felt that it was very important to improve study success. GroenLinks and the CDA asked about the distribution of the study advance. I have spoken about this in recent times on the HO tour and this is reflected in the strategic agenda. I can say to Mr Rog about the 200 million that these are sectoral agreements and that institutions have different interpretations. I don't have an overview yet, but I do see that, for example, the Rotterdam University of Applied Sciences will spend an average of 16.5 million extra, and TU Delft 15 million to 20 million extra. I will continue to talk to the institutions about already investing in better education. Mr Grashoff asked about the binding study opinion and the hard cut. There is a great deal to be said about this, but for the sake of shortness, I think I should confine myself to this. The binding study advice is a pilot, at least in the second year. It'll be evaluated in a few years. Then we will see if this leads to where it should lead, namely more conscious guidance and more quality improvement, including in the roasting of the university. I am thinking, among other things, of Leiden, where this is used in the second year. It can also contribute to more variety in training programmes. In Leiden it is completed in this way, but in Maastricht there is no binding study advice and is mainly concerned with developing problem-driven education. These are all ways that, as far as I am concerned, need to be given room to get more diversity in the educational concept. Questions have been asked about housing. I would like to emphasise the following. Students need not only good teachers and challenging education, but also good study facilities. Students want a good library, workplaces, lecture rooms and ICT facilities. It's all called the real estate portfolio. With the word "real estate" it is a bit like with the word "return thinking"; it is quite wrong. I'm gonna distance myself from that. However, higher education institutions should not spend more on buildings than they need to provide good education and good study facilities. In 1995, the universities and colleges themselves became responsible for housing policy. This has made housing an integral part of the education and research policies of universities. I don't think it's desirable to put it all in real estate, as the SP suggests. Then I can move my department back to Zoetermeer, and instead of a lot of teachers I will have a lot of staff to write and check those coupons of stones and buildings. Nevertheless, the developments in the real estate have my attention. Mr Grashoff asked whether we are not doing too much afterward. That is precisely why I have taken a number of measures recently. I also say to Mr Van Dijk that I recently commissioned the inspection to investigate the current housing and investment plans, the volume of investment for the coming years and possible financial risks in MBO and higher education. As a result of the developments at Amarantis and ROC Leiden, I have strengthened governance, both in a formal sense, in legislation and regulation, and in an informal sense, the moral appeal. Think of the Halsema Committee. Furthermore, I have introduced the possibility of giving an administrative designation into the law and the use of earlywarning instruments. Recently I also set up the committee chaired by Professor Meurs, following the event at ROC Leiden. She investigates whether on top of the lessons we have learned from Amarantis there are still new lessons to be learned about real estate and large institutions. I will give to that committee to consider with me the possibilities for a centre of expertise, where administrators and supervisors of educational institutions can have their new building plans reviewed by independent experts. That, too, would be a further step in the ex ante control. I say to GroenLinks that at the end of 2012, I will invest and reward the rules on the use of derivatives, in order to avoid irresponsible risks that institutions could take. In this way we keep more control in advance, but let us leave the responsibility where it belongs: with the institutions themselves. The SP submitted a 30 point plan. If I look closely, it's actually nine main points. Most of them I passed through during my speech. I am grateful to Mr Van Dijk for his note...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u221	Thank you!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u222	... but I don't think that these 30 points now provide the solution for improving education. Let me just say once more: I cannot do legislation and regulations alone. Above all, we must ensure that an academic culture is created where a good and meaningful discussion can take place at all levels. Unfortunately, we cannot enforce this by means of rules. However, we can continue to talk about it with each other. I'm sure we will.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u223	Mr Van Dijk, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u224	I'd be happy if you'd take 28 out of 30 points. Mr President, I do not know how you see this, but I find a debate like this very unsatisfactory. There is talk for a very long time, at the very last minute there will be participation, real estate and all kinds of other things that I think are very important, and then it will be said: yes, we must also complete it. It may be right to conclude once, but participation is a key issue. I now almost feel that I will save my interruption for another debate, because the real estate has already passed and I would like to ask a question about that too. It's all getting a little ragged off. That's too bad. My question is about the real estate. The Minister has her familiar reflex: she doesn't want to start putting up new officials and it's all fine. But let's look at the problem first. The UvA, but also other institutions, such as Amarantis, ROC Leiden etc. The Minister mentioned those who have already spent millions on megalomaniac construction projects. You have to set a limit to that. It's a time bomb. Does the Minister agree with me that it is unacceptable that these real estate projects should be at the expense of education and, for example, that training should be cut, as the UvA is now threatening to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u225	However, it is the responsibility of the institution to consider this matter. That is why I welcome the right to vote in favour of the main lines of the budget. That's about what you spend on education, research and housing. Housing is also part of education, so that's not just something special. For students and teachers it can be crucial to have a good study facility.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u226	The minister himself mentioned all sorts of dramas: ROC Leiden and Amarantis. The UvA is now under pressure. She's put extra supervision on that. There may be 15 million cuts in training. That's why those students took action. That austerity is unacceptable to me. Does the Minister agree with me that we should not accept them and that a solution is to remove the real estate from the educational leaders, who should not be real estate speculators as far as I am concerned, or that she should at least be obliged to find another solution which really guarantees that the training programmes do not suffer from property speculation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u227	I am trying to argue that training also needs buildings and study facilities. For one education it can be different than for the other. For example, programmes with a lot of ICT work can be beta training, but also the humanities need places where students and teachers can work on them. That's not just another thing. The way to ensure this is to ensure that funds for housing, for real estate, are spent effectively. That is why I have taken measures against improper use of derivatives. It is not about all derivatives, but it is about the dangerous derivatives. That is why I welcome the decision on participation on the broad lines of the budget. I think that such an expertise agency that I am considering setting up and on which I have asked the Meurs Committee for advice could make a contribution to getting that focus even further in advance or that is really justified. Relocating to the state real estate or to the department itself seems to me to bring us farther from the problems than anything we've noticed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u228	Mr Van Dijk has 28 points, I think. The Minister does not miss an opportunity in the media outside this Chamber to discuss additional investment in higher education and the involvement of participation in it. In the Chamber, I asked a specific question about this: what do students see of this year with the first EUR 200 million that universities would pre-finance? I have heard one example from the Minister that has not yet been worked out, namely Rotterdam, where 16.5 million is invested. It is a pity that it is limited to that. Can the Minister inform the Chamber in the next two months of what the EUR 200 million will be invested in this year and to what extent this will affect the primary process? It is the co-determination that reminds me of this, which says: nothing happens to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u229	First, let me report the trial. That agreement is linked to the agreement on the study advance. It's going into September 1st, so that's not possible. What institutions do do, as they have already done with performance agreements, is to ensure that extra resources are already invested in education and that more attention is paid to education. The fact that the National Student Survey has been released today, in which students indicate that they have never been as satisfied as they are today, is a very encouraging sign in this respect. It is not enough, because I believe that we should make high demands on education. I think the Chamber agrees. So there is still room for improvement. Of course, I would like to inform the Chamber about how the institutions ultimately deal with the agreements we have made at sector level. I will do that when I have that information from the institutions. I already know that's really being worked on. I have mentioned several institutions in that context, including TU Delft, but I could also mention others.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u230	If the Chamber is informed of this and if the Minister can set a deadline, then I am happy on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u231	I can't tell by heart what time it's gonna take.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u232	Perhaps you could say that in the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u233	I'll take a look at my employees for that. I don't know what a logical moment might be. I will come back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u234	I would like to return to the role of the training committees. The Minister commented on that idea of Mr Rog and I to print an evaluation of the training committee in the study leaflet. The Minister said that it is a good idea that it is transparent, but that it can be too bureaucratic. I am a pragmatic person, just like Mr Rog. My question to the Minister is therefore: what could be a new non-bureaucratic way that would have a great deal of effect? How do you ensure that you have that transparency and can give that information to current and future students?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u235	I'm gonna have to think about that. It could play a role in the National Student Survey, although it mainly asks students how they experience their studies. It may also be published on the institutions' websites. Maybe we need to think a little bit more about how we can do that. I would like to say the following to Mr Duisenberg and Mr Van Dijk. The reason why I did not go into all the details of participation is that before the summer, the Chamber will have the legislative power to strengthen the administrative power in which all these issues come back in general terms, including the strengthening of the training committee. I would like to continue thinking with the Chamber about how we can strengthen that role and increase transparency. There's no question about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u236	I thank the Minister for her answer. We are also pragmatic in this, but it must be effective. We therefore ask the Minister to examine whether it can be included in the study leaflet and to consider its advantages and disadvantages. I have no further question, but that's as thoughtful as it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u237	Finally, I say to Mr Rog that I will inform the Chamber about the 200 million before the end of the year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u238	Let's start with the second term. The speaking time therein is not more than two minutes per group, and that includes the reading of motions. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u239	Mr. Chairman. I am full of reading my motions, otherwise I will not be able to make it within the speaking time. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas institutions can best determine, in consultation with students and teachers, what quality is and how to improve it;]] [[calls on the government, co-decision councils to give formal consent to quality agreements, mergers and large-scale redevelopment of the educational offer;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas quality agreements are made within the framework of the study advance;]] [[Whereas return arrangements prevent student opportunities;]] [[noting that students benefit from a good quality of education and space and time to develop and prepare for further training or the labour market;]] [[calls on the Government to refrain from return agreements as part of the quality agreements,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Supervisory Board plays an important role in monitoring the functioning of an educational institution and administration;]] [[Whereas at present only one member of the Supervisory Board is appointed to propose participation;]] [[calls on the Government to include in the draft law for the strengthening of participation half of the supervisory board on the proposal of participation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a college of directors of a university is now run by a chairman;]] [[Whereas a university is not a company but an academic community;]] [[calls on the Government to include in the draft law for strengthening participation that the Rector Magnificus is chairman of the Board of Directors,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas management of the maintenance of small studies is necessary;]] [[Whereas, where a higher education institution is considering abolishing a training offered exclusively at that institution, there is more than just the interest of the institution, namely the social importance of the provision of such training in the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the Government, in cooperation with institutions, teachers and students, to come forward with a proposal for guidance on small studies, with the Minister having the power to stop the lifting of a unique study in the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the housing policies of educational institutions have recently led to very worrying financial situations;]] [[noting that this has resulted in cuts in the supply of education and the dismissal of teaching staff;]] [[Whereas the emergence of such a situation should be avoided at all times, in the interests of students and staff;]] [[calls on the Government to include in the draft law for strengthening participation that major investment in housing can be assessed in advance on the basis of a risk analysis carried out by an expert and independent institute, which decides on the feasibility of the proposed investment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Meenen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31288-442]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Meenen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31288-443]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Meenen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31288-444]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Meenen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31288-445]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Meenen and Mr Mohandis. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31288-446]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Meenen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31288-447]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u240	Mr. Chairman. I have 30 proposals, but I do not have as many motions as Mr Van Meenen. I'm not gonna make it. Unbelievable. He just finished my note, of course, so he had to write them quickly. The Minister does not mean that the Maagdenhuis has had a positive impact on the debate on higher education. I find that regrettable and a little weak, because I think she can just admit it. It has had a very good effect on the debate, also on the debate we have had today. There is still a real debate to be held on participation and perverse incentives. There was far too little time for that, but there will be. I'm going to file the motions. I've got four. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that university supervisory boards fail or fail to perform convincing supervision of boards of directors;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how the tasks of the Supervisory Board can be transferred to the Supervisory Board,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, as a result of speculation with real estate, universities are able to build up high debts;]] [[Whereas high real estate costs can lead to savings in research and education;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how the real estate of higher education institutions can be managed by the Rijksbouwbouwdienst,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, as a result of speculation with real estate, universities are able to build up high debts;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that real estate charges are not at the expense of education and research,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that universities can build up high debts as a result of property speculation;]] [[calls on the Government to provide the Court with an overview of the real estate charges and financial risks of individual institutions in higher education,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31288-448]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31288-449]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31288-450]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31288-451]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u241	We had a first debate today. I consider this a starting point here in the Chamber. To be continued.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u242	Mr. Chairman. I'm almost starting to feel guilty because I only have two motions. As Mr Van Dijk pointed out, we will not be finished with this debate. This is just the beginning, just like the occupation of the Maagdenhuis was a reason for a number of things that have been dormant for a long time but have also come to light. As far as we are concerned, the objectives of the discussion are very valuable and we must continue to have that discussion. I have two motions in the field of humanities. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the report on the sustainable humanities of the Cohen Commission led to the establishment of the Humanities Regulatory Body in 2009;]] [[Whereas teachers and students, but also the governing body, have an important role to play in the intention to abolish or substantially alter a unique training course;]] [[considers that unique and small courses are essential for academic wealth;]] [[calls on the Government, the Humanities Board, to continue its work and to ensure the decisive role of the Regie organ and the Minister in the lifting of a last unique education,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a National Science Agenda is currently being worked on, selecting for economic significance and societal relevance;]] [[Whereas the humanities have their own position in the academic landscape, but are under pressure at the same time;]] [[considers that valuable areas of knowledge in the Netherlands should be preserved;]] [[calls on the Government to promote adequate humanities coverage of the major societal challenges in the National Science Agenda,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Schouten and Mr Van Meenen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31288-452]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Schouten and Mr Mohandis. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31288-453]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u243	Mr. Chairman. For the sake of time, I shall confine myself to tabling my motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the participation bodies in higher education have no right of assent to the termination or merging of training courses;]] [[considers that closing or merging training courses has a major impact on students and teachers and on society as a whole;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the central co-determination council is given the right to consent to the merging of training courses or the termination of training;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas training committees are close to training and therefore play an important role in assessing the quality of education;]] [[noting that training committees currently have only advisory rights;]] [[calls on the Government, the advisory law on education as a whole and the examination scheme to be converted into consent law;]] [[calls on the Government to engage in discussions with educational institutions on how to improve support for training committees;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that the Binding Study Opinion affects the accessibility of higher education and does not contribute to improving the quality of education;]] [[noting that the Binding Study Opinion makes it difficult to study flexibly and at its own pace;]] [[calls on the Government to remove the obligation to provide a Binding Study Opinion and to discontinue the "Binding Study Opinion Year" experiment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the introduction of the hard cut between the bachelor and master has an impact on the duration of students' studies;]] [[Considers that the introduction of hard cutting has not led to a significant increase in the number of influx moments and competition between institutions;]] [[calls on the government to prepare a plan to remove the mandatory hard cut between the bachelor and master;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31288-454]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31288-455]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31288-456]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31288-457]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u244	Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. The first motion concerns strengthening the training committees. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Training Committee has been briefly described in the Higher Education and Scientific Research Act (WHW);]] [[Whereas the quality culture takes shape in the workplace and the training committee is the place for debate on the quality of education between teachers and students in conversation with training managers;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with management and participation organisations, to examine whether the WHW can be adapted to facilitate training committees better through at least adequate training, organisational support and financial remuneration;]] [[calls on the Government to examine, in consultation with administrative and participatory bodies, how to include in the WHW that the training committee is deemed to take an annual reasoned position on the quality of education and to include this opinion in the study guide of the training. In addition, to examine ways of improving the quality of education in the event of a negative opinion,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Duisenberg and Mr Rog. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31288-458]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u245	My second motion concerns the story of the damage. I was not satisfied with the answer given by the Minister and some of my colleagues. So we'd like to give her a little more guidance from the Chamber. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that students and others occupied the Bunge House and Virgin House and were removed after long stays by police and ME;]] [[noting that direct and indirect damage has been caused by these occupations, estimated at €500,000 in an initial assessment by the University of Amsterdam;]] [[Whereas the damage caused by this occupation to the education budget of the UvA, the government and thus the taxpayer is passed on if no claim is submitted;]] [[calls on the Minister of OCW to engage in talks with the UvA and, within the legal possibilities, the damage suffered, now paid from public funds, to make the most of the occupiers, and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Duisenberg, Mr Rog, Mr Bertema and Mr Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31288-459]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u246	Mr. Chairman. I have worked with my colleague, Mr Duisenberg, on behalf of me, in dealing with the damage and strengthening the position of the training committees. I myself have another motion on the uniquely small language studies. We are trying to see that the Minister has care and attention to it, but at the same time, as far as we are concerned, she has not sufficiently achieved the guarantee of social interest. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas VSNU, DLG and Humanities Agency have taken a significant step towards maintaining a wide range of languages, including those of small, unique language studies, known as unica, in the future vision for the languages of the Humanities in the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas there may also be social interests which oppose the abolition of unica, such as geopolitical, economic or cultural historical interests, which will not necessarily be involved in university considerations;]] [[calls on the Government to consider how these social interests can be taken into account in the elaboration of the procedural arrangements for the cessation of unique training;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how funding for these unicas can be adequately designed and to inform the Court of Justice of this prior to the examination of the Strategic Agenda for Higher Education,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Rog. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31288-460]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u247	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for answering the questions. I'm looking back on a nice debate. I agree with everyone who has said that we are going to talk more about related issues. There will be plenty of debates and I look forward to that. I confine myself to three motions, unlike the D66's and SP's profit-thinkers, who have filed a contest for motions. I mean that nicely, by the way. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the training committee and faculty and district council would benefit from advisory and consent rights, so that the voice of students and teachers would be more involved in educational decisions;]] [[considers that the student's input on his training is crucial for the creation of high-quality training;]] [[Considers that training committees as the most decentralised partner should be placed in a more position to take a formal decision on the content of education;]] [[calls on the government, in consultation with the unions and umbrella organisations, to come forward with proposals to give training committees a formal position with advisory rights and right of agreement on parts;]] [[also invites the Government to make proposals to strengthen faculty and district councils in their right of advice and consent,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Mohandis and Mr Van Meenen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31288-461]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u248	Mr Mohandis wishes to give the training committees the right of assent on educational content. Now we've spent the last few years doing a good job setting up examination boards. This is an excellent role for the examination committees, isn't it? Mr Mohandis's proposal completely contradicts that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u249	I had prepared a motion indicating exactly which parts you could give advice and consent to. To my knowledge, examination committees are outside; I think that is already anchored. Now let the field figure out exactly how they do that. I'd like to give you a hand with that. I promise I'll get back to the Reinforcement Board on that. Then I'll make it more concrete. This also took into account the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u250	You have 30 seconds left.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u251	I have two further motions, but I also see Mr Schouten.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u252	What does Mr Mohandis mean by "on parts"? For my group's consideration, it is important to know what this is about. What should they be entitled to consent to?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u253	I've got some ideas about that. The law contains all kinds of aspects which I would like to see given the right to advice or consent, for example on how training is evaluated. Several aspects are possible. Let them now make that proposal where they know exactly what they are missing, right of consent or right of advice. I admit that I will make this concrete at the Reinforcement Board Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u254	For my consideration, it's important to know what it is. Does Mr Mohandis mean that agreements are being made at a decentralised level on whether the training committee is given advisory rights and right of assent, and on what basis? Or does he want input so that we can organize it centrally? That's not entirely clear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u255	Let me be clear that I am concerned with giving the training committees a formal position. You do this by upgrading them in terms of participation and advisory rights and right of consent. For example, parts of the education and examination regulations could be considered. I'd like to go through them all now, but there's quite a few of them. Cases surrounding the Examination Board are excluded, but there are plenty of points on which they could be given advisory and consent rights. They're just in the law. As far as I am concerned, we will be able to talk about this in concrete terms when we deal with the law. Then we can make another proposal. This motion expresses the intention to really regulate and anchor that formal position.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u256	Mr Duisenberg, you still had a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u257	It is indeed a follow-up question. What Mr Mohandis is really into is the educational content. Precisely for that we have the Examination Committee and accreditation; that is a whole structure. Mr Mohandis, with his proposals, is now showing exactly what he has to say, and I hope he realizes that if you throw these kinds of rights into the house like this, then you are going to push the house around again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u258	I disagree. It's about the way you look at training committees. I agree with Mr Duisenberg that they should be further strengthened and facilitated and that they should be involved in accreditation. If you want them not only to talk, but also to decide, you have to give the most decentralised part of whatever is seen as participation real teeth. To that end, I call for this motion. It's not an amendment, on parts, but it's a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u259	I am convinced that the intention of the motion is good, namely to strengthen the training committee, but it also raises many questions by the words 'right of advice' and 'right of consent'. That is what Mr Mohandis is going to work out later in the discussion of the proposal for a law on strengthening control. Is this motion timely, then?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u260	There was a discussion on the right of opinion and assent. I think there should be a healthy distribution. This motion, for example, puts student organisations in place to think about that right balance. The intention is there. In the end, I want training committees to have a formal position. This includes advisory rights and the right to consent to parts. That's what this motion is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u261	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u262	The problem is with the latter: right of consent on parts. The political groups here have to judge the motion, but Mr Mohandis has not yet filled in where that right of assent is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u263	In order to clarify matters, I will look again at the first part of the operative part. I will look again at the wording, but the intention remains: training committees should be given a formal position as a participation body. Those two things are part of that. Let me give you two more examples of points where it is essential that they are given a right of advice and consent. If we can clarify that in the motion, that's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u264	You have two more motions to submit, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u265	Yeah, that's right. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considers that students should have control over the policy at their higher education institution;]] [[noting that this is carried out by participation councils and that they play an important role by making use of participation and representation;]] [[noting that not all co-workers receive remuneration, receive support or have the right to (partially) tuition fees-free boards in exercising them and therefore it is not possible for every student to work for a participation council;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that all co-workers, including part-time employees, receive adequate remuneration for their earnings;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with student organisations, to explore various possibilities and address bottlenecks and inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that students and teachers currently have little say in the appointment of directors in the Board of Directors and the Supervisory Board;]] [[Whereas increased participation, for example through advisory rights, in the appointment of directors can provide more support for directors among students and teachers;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the sectoral councils and student organisations, to come up with a plan to involve students and teachers in the appointment of directors and to include the results of the UvA's research committee,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Mohandis and Mr Van Meenen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31288-462]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Mohandis. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31288-463]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u266	Mr. Chairman. I don't know what happened here, but suddenly I have 22 motions in front of me. I'm gonna swing by every one of them. In the motion in part No. Mr Van Meenen asked the government to give formal assent to co-decision councils. I'm deceiving that motion. The participation council already has the right to consent to mergers and to large-scale changes in the training offer. In that respect, therefore, the motion is superfluous. I have already promised that the Higher Education Programme will provide for participation in quality agreements at AMvB. In the motion in part No. 443 by Mr Van Meenen, the government is asked to refrain from making returns as part of the quality agreements. I would advise against this motion, because we still have to start talking about quality agreements and about whether and in what way profitability should play a role in this and what we then mean by 'efficiency'. I just indicated in the first term that you can think about it in very different ways. We need to have that debate with each other later. In the motion in part No. Mr Van Meenen asked the government to include in the draft law for the strengthening of participation half of the supervisory board for the nomination of participation. I would also advise against this motion, even if only because I cannot make this type of major change in the legislative proposal on strengthening participation. The process has already progressed so far that it is no longer possible. Then the bill would have to go back to the Council of State. Moreover, participation is already given the right to consult on the profiles and participation can be consulted with the Supervisory Board at least twice a year. I also believe that this kind of regulation will not contribute to the further development of participation. In the motion in part No. Mr Van Meenen asked the government to include in the draft law for strengthening participation the Rector Magnificus is chairman of the Executive Board. I'm also dissuading that motion. The principal is always a professor. The rector has an extremely important role in a board of directors and can be chairman. The College appoints a chairman from among its members. That could very well be the principal. This has also been the case for a long time at Leiden University. So I don't want to make it compulsory for the principal to always be president. I would like to stress that I very much agree with Mr Van Meenen that the principal has an extremely important role because he is responsible for education and research. So maybe he's even more important than the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u267	I see that Mr Van Meenen wishes to respond to this. He can ask one question about the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u268	We agree that the principal is very important, perhaps even more important than the President. So let us add butter to the fish and say: the person in charge of the university is a scientist. He understands the university. So that can never be a businessman who has his priority in this area. That's the background to this: just "crayon to the jacket," hupsakee!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u269	A rector is responsible for the education and research of a university. That's the most important function there is. A chairman can also have a very great responsibility for external contacts. That's a good role for a president. So I really think it is up to a board of directors to make a division of tasks there and to determine who the chairman is. But apart from the President, the principal is always extremely important, especially internally. It is often much more important than the chairman. I come to speak about the motion on item No. Mr Van Meenen and Mr Mohandis asked the government, in cooperation with institutions, teachers and students, to come up with a proposal for guidance on small studies. I would like to ask Mr Van Meenen to hold this motion because I have promised that I will come forward with a letter following the advice of the Humanities Board in the summer. I have already promised that in that letter I will also reflect on any powers of the Minister to intervene in the lifting of a unique study. If Mr Van Meenen is not prepared to do so, I would advise against the motion. I think it is useful to first reflect on the pros and cons and on the necessity that the governing body of Humanities sees for it or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u270	I am prepared to hold the motion, but I would ask the Minister, in the document that she will give us, to answer the question as to what we might be discussing here in the Chamber at the moment when we have an unwelcome decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u271	I thought I had already promised that, coupled with the question of the Humanities Regiegroep, because it also depends on the seriousness of the problem that the management group is about to outline.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u272	Then I'll hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u273	At the request of Mr Van Meenen, I propose his motion (31288, No. 446). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u274	In the Van Meenen motion on part No. 447 the government is asked to include in the draft law on the strengthening of co-determination that major investment in housing should be assessed on the basis of consultation of co-determination and that risk analysis should be carried out. I would ask Mr Van Meenen to take this motion as well. The Chamber will soon receive the law on strengthening administrative power, as it is officially called. I have also put the Meurs Committee to work with the question of whether a centre of expertise is needed. This would be very close to what Mr Van Meenen is proposing. He does it at institution level. I do not think it would be useful to decide all this separately now. I would therefore ask that the motion be retained. Otherwise, I would advise against its adoption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u275	I really think I have read in various media, for example on the occasion of ROC Leiden, that the Minister himself explicitly wants this, at least something in this spirit. By the way, I proposed this for the MBO a few years ago. I thought I would do her a favour, but now I understand that there is also a possible outcome in which the Meurs committee says: no, we should not do that. What is the risk of this motion being adopted?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u276	Then I can say it's unnecessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u277	But is that what you want? Is that what you're after? You wouldn't do that to me, would you? It's late.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u278	I see now that you can also read the motion differently: '... major investments in housing can be tested in advance on the advocacy of participation...' The idea of the centre of expertise is that this can be ex ante tested, but that this cannot necessarily be done by participation alone. It should perhaps be prescribed for colleges of administration to do so in all cases. I am aware that I can also regard the motion as supporting policy and therefore leave it to the Chamber to decide. Then I interpret the motion in such a way that it is actually part of the question that I have already put to the Meurs Committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u279	That's the way it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u280	I believe that I have so far rejected all Mr Van Meenen's motions, so with this wording I leave the judgment to the Chamber. I have another motion on which my judgment is'supporting policy'. Then I'll say "judge chamber." I would add that the Meurs Committee is now in the process of examining whether such an expertise agency is desirable and necessary. I can't anticipate that. Then it is also up to the committee to advise me on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u281	Shall we go through all the others?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u282	No. In the Jasper van Dijk motion in part No. 448 is asked whether tasks of the supervisory board can be transferred to the participation council. I really advise against that motion, because the intention is that there should be control of a board of directors from different sides. Transferring these tasks to participation would mean that there would be no one left to intervene if the board then took a decision. I do not think that this is desirable in the context of differences in layering in responsibility. The Jasper van Dijk motion in part No. 449 to transfer the property to the Rijksbouwbouwdienst I strongly advise against, because I don't need a new Zoetermeer. In the Jasper van Dijk motion in part No. 450 calls on the government to ensure that real estate charges do not go at the cost of education and research. I also advise against that motion. Real estate charges are also important for education and research. The distinction as it stands can never be applied as strictly in practice. Then I come to the Jasper van Dijk motion on part No. 451 on the mapping of the real estate costs and financial risks of individual institutions in higher education. This motion also supports policy, because I said in the first term that I instructed the Education Inspectorate to investigate the current housing and investment plans, the volume of investment for the coming years and the possible financial risks to the MBO and ho. That investigation is under way, and that is why I say that the opinion on this motion is before the Chamber, as is Mr Van Meenen's motion. I can also say that the motion is superfluous, because the investigation is already under way, and that is the judgement of the Chamber. If the motion is passed, I consider the motion to support policy. Then I will continue with the motion-Schouten/Van Meenen in part nr. 452, in which the government is invited to continue the Humanities Board and to ensure a major role of the governing body and the minister in the lifting of a final unique education. I would ask the authors to hold this motion because I would first like to have the report of the governing body. I will take into account how or not we should ensure something in the end of the last one-of-a-kind training. I just said that to Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u283	I will continue the motion if the Minister pays particular attention in the evaluation to the position of the governing body.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u284	That's what I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u285	At the request of Mrs Schouten, I propose her motion (31288, No. 452). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u286	In the motion in part No. 453 the government is invited to promote that humanities are adequately addressed in the National Science Agenda in relation to the importance of the major societal challenges. I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. I think it is very important that humanities should also be given an important role in this agenda. If the House needs to underline that again, that is actually also support for policy, and that is the verdict on this motion for a resolution to the Chamber. In the Grashoff motion in part No. 454 Mr Grashoff asked the government to ensure that the central co-determination council was given the right of assent to merge training or to end training. I would also ask Mr Grashoff to hold his motion. I consider the involvement of participation to be important. Participation has the right of assent to the institution plan of institutions. Things have already been arranged. There is also a need to adopt major adjustments to the training offer. I have just said this to Mr Van Meenen. The right of assent and advice on the OER has ensured the role of decentralised participation in training. It is also obvious here to examine whether there is a need for more administrative institutions under the Act, whether this should be legislation or whether implementation should be more in support of participation. I therefore ask Mr Grashoff to hold this motion. If he is not prepared to do so, I advise against this motion. Mr Grashoff asked the government in the motion for a resolution on item No. 455 to also engage in discussions with educational institutions on how to improve support for training committees and to transform the right of advice across the whole education and examination system into a right of assent. I support the intention behind this motion, but not the design proposed in the motion with regard to the OER. In my opinion it is not adequate, not even because it does not fit in with what is already in the law on the OER. This also applies to the strengthening of the administrative capacity of educational institutions by the Act on the strengthening of the role of the Training Commission. I also note that there is another motion tabled by Mr Duisenberg and Mr Rog on the training committees. In my view, this motion expresses more precisely what is necessary. I therefore sympathise with the intention of Mr Grashoff's motion, but in the current wording I advise her against it. However, I would like to say to the Chamber that I am prepared to talk to educational institutions about how to improve support for training committees. If Mr Grashoff were to leave this part of the operative part alone, I would leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u287	I really need to think about this point made by the Minister. The same applies to the previous motion. I may still be arrested, but I can't see directly the implications of what the Minister said.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u288	In his motion in part No. 456 asks Mr Grashoff to delete the binding study opinion. I don't recommend that motion. The binding study advice is an experiment and it is important to wait for the results. So I do not think it is desirable to strike for the time being. Let us also draw on the evaluation. The Grashoff motion in part No. 457 requests a mandatory hard cut between the bachelor and the master. I don't recommend that motion. We have only recently discussed this issue in the Quality of Diversity Act. I can see that this can be improved, but to delete it immediately, I really do go too far. After all, we also made that cut to distinguish the bachelor and the master and to give students more opportunities, to make an independent choice for their master. I also hear that there is some improvement to be made here and there, but we need to have a proper discussion about this and not just reverse everything. The Duisenberg and Rog motion in part No. 458 is the other motion on the training committee. I'll leave that judgment to the Chamber. I will discuss with the domes and student organisations how we can promote transparency. I would also like to say a few words about the operative part of Mr Grashoff's previous motion. I'd like to see how we can do that better than in the study leaflet. If you will allow me to look at alternatives on that point, I shall leave the ruling on this motion to the House. The Duisenberg c.s. motion in piece No. 459... I've lost that motion. I believe that's the motion on the Virgin House and on the claim and damage?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u289	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u290	I would advise against this motion, because I would like to say one more time that it is really the responsibility of the University of Amsterdam to claim damage. I can tell you, because in the meantime I checked that the UvA reported twice against the occupying forces for trespassing and destruction at the time of the occupation. The UvA will decide whether additional claims will be made with regard to the damage suffered following the UvA's internal investigation into the facts. I referred to that investigation in my first term. Then it's up to the D.A. to prosecute as a result of the report. No further information is available. I therefore reject this motion, but I have already promised the Chamber, and I repeat that I would be happy to inform the Chamber of the final developments. I am happy to inform the Chamber afterwards about the final damage and what the UvA will ultimately decide, following the internal investigation that is currently under way. I will also inform the Chamber of what the Public Prosecutor's Office is doing about this, because that is not up to me either. That's really up to the state's attorney's office. The motion-Ray in part No. 460 calls on the Government to examine how the financing of the unica can be properly designed and to examine how the process arrangements can be worked out with a view to ending. This is the same story as for previous motions, which were actually about the same theme. I would ask Mr Rog to hold on to that motion, because I will return to this subject in the letter following the opinion I will receive this summer on language training. I expressly say to Mr Rog, like Mr Van Meenen and Mrs Schouten, that I will also inform the Chamber in response to this question about the procedural arrangements, the financing of unica and the role of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u291	Mr Rog on this motion, or on the previous one?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u292	I now have questions about two motions, Mr President. The motion in part No. 460 I was going to read, because I thought this could be done. However, I have heard the Minister, and I am holding on to that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u293	At the request of Mr Rog, I propose his motion (31288, No. 460). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u294	If I may, Mr President, at the time of the motion on item No. 459 try again. The Minister once again says it's up to the UvA and we'll see how the damage goes. I see a little flabbergasting in that. The only thing the Minister is called upon to do in this motion is to enter into the discussion as a system responsible. It also has a responsibility for those who bring together this money for education. The motion calls on the Minister to enter into that conversation with the UvA, so that they can keep their backs straight. We have seen that the UvA's board has been pushed into the corner by these people. We call on the Minister to support this new administration and to ensure that this new administration has the courage to keep its back straight this time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u295	I support that new governance, but I do not believe that it will help to get that administration on the road with these kinds of assignments, tasks that still relate to the past. Each time the board has to consider whether or not to make a report, how to deal with the damage suffered and what that damage is in. Is there any suspicion that this damage can be claimed at all? If that is not the case, it does not even need to be submitted to the prosecution. This may also lead to discussions that people may not want to have there. So this is really at the University of Amsterdam, but I am willing to inform the Chamber about what the University of Amsterdam at some point has derived from that internal research, what decisions are taken on this basis and what the considerations are. I will therefore inform the Chamber about what the prosecution has done with a possible UvA declaration. The motion in part No. 461 belongs to the members Mohandis and Van Meenen. It invites the government to come up with proposals with the unions and domes to give training committees a formal position with advisory rights and right of agreement on parts, as well as to come up with proposals to strengthen faculty and district councils in their advisory and assent rights. I find this in itself a sympathetic motion. But the formal position of the training committee is already strengthened with the legislative proposal strengthening administrative power, which will soon be given to the Chamber. In addition, the powers of faculty councils have already been strengthened in several respects in recent years. So I do not see any reason to change it any further now. So on this motion, too, I would like to ask for her to be detained. This motion relates very directly to the legislative proposal strengthening administrative power. I therefore ask the proposers to hold the motion until we discuss that bill with each other. Then we can look at whether there is a need for more, on top of what we are already doing with ISO, the Day of Participation and the recommendations that might come out there again. If Mr Mohandis is not prepared to hold the motion, I advise her. The motion in part No. 462 also belongs to members Mohandis and Van Meenen. This motion concerns the remuneration of co-workers, including those who have a part-time job. The government is invited, in consultation with student organisations, to explore the possibilities and address bottlenecks. I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. So I will also include the results of the participatory monitor, which will be presented on the day the ISO organises in June on participation. In the motion in part No. Mr Mohandis asked the government, in consultation with the sectoral councils and student organisations, to come up with a plan to involve students and teachers in the appointment of directors and to include the results of the UvA's research committee. In my opinion, the first part of this operative part is superfluous. For this, I refer again to the legislative proposal for strengthening administrative power, which will soon be given to the Chamber. I have already indicated that students have a role in this. I would be happy to include the results of the UvA's Committee of Inquiry. So, if I can understand the motion in such a way that I am particularly concerned with the last part and the first part comes back to the strengthening administrative power bill, I will leave the judgment to your Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-9.u296	We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday. I thank the Minister for her answers, and I also thank the Members of Parliament, the people in the public gallery and the officials. I'm closing the meeting.
