ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-21.u1	Mr Verhoeven is already ready for his input.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-21.u2	Mr. Chairman. This would have been a hammerpiece, had it not been for D66 to have decided to break this law, as it is so fine, because we would like to have a brief debate with the Minister for Economic Affairs on this law. We have an amendment in preparation, which I have not yet tabled. In this debate, I will put a question to the Minister for Economic Affairs and then submit that amendment in a certain form. In recent years, we have seen numerous serious cartels. Philips made price agreements in various cartels about chips in smartphones, bank cards and television parts. Vinegar makers agreed prices for industrial natural vinegar and price agreements were made by producers of food packaging, glass cleaners, vegetable growers, taxi carriers and flour producers. Millions of consumers have therefore paid far too much for products and services. This is detrimental to consumer confidence in the relevant markets and businesses. Moreover, such practices constitute a serious obstacle to competition. This is detrimental to internal competitiveness and thus to the competitiveness of the Netherlands in the rest of the world. Competition is essential for well-functioning markets and forces companies to innovate. Within its own borders, competition helps the Netherlands to compete in the world; this is good for economic growth and employment. In order to avoid this behaviour of cartel formation, a strong supervisory authority is needed which can issue dissuasive fines. Without this incentive, it is, as the Minister himself said, mop up with the tap open. According to SiRM's investigation, the maximum estimated benefit of participating in a cartel is 98% of the parties higher than the expected fine. I conclude from this that the current policy is hardly a deterrent. It is good that this Minister wants to increase the fines. He doesn't go far enough, however, as far as D66 is concerned. First of all, I have a few questions about the maximum fine. Why is €900,000 chosen? In the written reply, the Minister refers to SiRM's investigation, while it has just been commissioned by the Minister to investigate raising it to €900,000. Why was that amount chosen? I'm getting to the relative penalty limit. The Minister sets the ceiling at 10% of turnover times the number of years the cartel was active, with a maximum of four years. I do not read in the Minister's explanatory statement a good basis for the maximisation of this fine. SiRM says that in order to have a deterrent effect, the expected fine must be higher than the benefit of participating in a cartel. In the case of a fine limited to four years, this means that the fine only deters the first four years of a cartel. If the cartel lasts longer, there is hardly any more deterrent effect. You're rewarding long-term price agreements, as it were. With regard to D66, the starting point is that companies pay a fine over the entire duration of a cartel. If a cartel lasts ten years, as far as we're concerned, you'll pay a fine over the ten-year period. That's how the fine becomes really terrifying. Of course, in this case too, the ACM must consider the reasonableness of the fine and the capacity of the parties to determine the fines to be imposed, as it is already doing. It always is. I have an amendment to that effect in preparation, as I have just said. It's just ready. I just haven't filed it yet, because I understand that it would not be legally possible to remove the four-year ceiling. That is why I would like to hear from the Minister first of all how this is done, before I table that amendment. At the beginning of my speech, I said that consumers suffer from price fixing. The European Cartel Damage Directive was therefore adopted in 2014. The consultation on its implementation runs until next Sunday. When does the Minister expect to send the bill to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-21.u3	Mr. Chairman. Given the time, overall slackness and more important things, I will drastically shorten my input to its core point, namely my amendment. I also agree with Mr Verhoeven's question as to why the ceiling is four years. Why can't the ACM look at a period of ten years when a cartel has lasted ten years? The ACM weighs on the fine whether a company goes bankrupt, because we have to avoid that with regard to the PvdA. A cartel fine should not be so high that a company goes bankrupt, which then leads to job losses. Let me concentrate on my most important point: the pension sector. I have tabled an amendment to that effect. Maybe now people are thinking: we're talking about the ACM, aren't we? It's weird, isn't it? What does the ACM do with the pension sector? That's not really a market, is it? In fact, for the second pillar pension there is no market at all, because you are obliged and have no choice at all. We should therefore welcome the consolidation of pension funds. There are even people who believe that there should be only one pension fund in the second pillar. The PvdA Group is grateful to the Minister for having carried out the motion I tabled in December 2013. As a result, the merger test for pension funds is limited. We have now tabled an amendment to raise the threshold at which pension funds must report. At the time, we were talking about perhaps the ten largest pension funds. The change made by the Minister is about the largest twenty. Our amendment actually means that only the pension funds listed in the top 15 have a notification obligation. We do this by raising the lower limit of 100 million to 200 million for the smallest pension fund participating in the merger. We want to give impetus to the necessary consolidation process. Cost control and professionalisation in this sector require fewer pension funds. There is also no completely free market. Participants are stuck. We recognise that there are competitive effects for the suppliers of pension funds. The pension funds are given greater purchasing power, but this is in principle in favour of the participants. As pension funds are concerned with them, therefore, they do not suffer any negative consequences. On the other hand, the merger test leads to higher costs, namely €45,000 per test, while it is often known that it is pointless to do that test. Besides, this is gonna take time. In addition, AFM and DNB already supervise pension funds. If we want a strong government that works efficiently, the PvdA Group believes that additional supervision by the ACM is not necessary and only leads to additional administrative burdens. Mr President, I have been brief, especially for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-21.u4	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vos.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-21.u5	Mr. Chairman. We have already stated in the written round that we have some reservations about this law. I shall now go into more detail. The CDA endorses the Government's objective of increasing the effectiveness and impact of the Authority's market surveillance. The government wants to do this by increasing the deterrent effect of the legal penalty ceilings and thereby also increasing the efficiency and effectiveness of the market surveillance of the ACM. Important points on which the CDA has taken into account when reviewing the law are the underlying thoughts of the legislative proposal, namely the principle of proportionality and the possible side effects. These side effects may consist of imposing higher fines on small entrepreneurs who act in breach of the law through clumsy or ignorance. In addition, the CDA has questions about the impact of the law on the ACM's capacity. The Minister said that the principle of the law is that the fine imposed must be proportionate. Higher fines will not automatically lead to higher fines. This is striking, because in the 2012 government agreement of the VVD and the PvdA, the government seems to be moving in a very different direction. Measure 84 of the Government Agreement provides that the fine revenue during this cabinet period is gradually increased on top of the already existing penalty estimate. The additional revenue from fines on the market is estimated in the government agreement at 75 million in 2014 up to 125 million in structural terms. This is, according to the government agreement, because the fines will be increased in terms of market forces, because more cartel fines will be imposed. However, in 2014, the fine imposed by the ACM on companies was only 7.5 million. This shows that an independent supervisor is not being directed. The Minister wrote in a letter to the Chamber in 2013 that the image in the coalition agreement is unrealistic. In the note following the report, the Minister even states that the additional penalty revenues for market operation from 2017 will be structuralally only 10 million. The question remains where the big difference comes from between the now outlined 10 million in 2017 and the previously outlined 125 million in 2017 from the government agreement. As a result, I would like to ask how this gap is covered in the budgets of EZ. The PvdA Group's questions show that it wants to know whether the objective of the government agreement to bring in more fines is still within reach. Well, that surprised us, didn't it? The Minister's statement that the increase in fines is not at all an objective of the legislative proposal is therefore surprising. Where does the government's change of direction come from? Has the Minister perhaps never supported this point in the coalition agreement? What is the real reason for this change of law? Is that increasing the effectiveness and impact of the ACM or filling the treasury? I would like a clear answer to these questions. With this bill, the ACM will have the opportunity and the space to impose a higher fine on offenders if this is at issue. It is striking that the chairman of the ACM, Chris Fonteijn, indicated in NRC Handelsblad of 11 April 2015 that he is not yet convinced of the deterrent effect of higher fines. He prefers companies to voluntarily improve their behavior. That is why he wants to focus on innovative supervision. In this context, he speaks, for example, of normative discussions. This raises the question of the extent to which there are sufficient good normo-treating discussions between the Ministry and the ACM. According to the Minister, does Mr Fonteijn have a point? For the CDA, it is very important that this bill does not result in higher fines being imposed on smaller companies who, perhaps due to clumsy or ignorance, act in violation of the law, while large fraudsters who deliberately break the law escape the dance. The Minister indicated that the draft law does not change the cases where the ACM may impose a fine on offenders or the circumstances under which such a penalty may be applied. Furthermore, in cases where an error is likely to be made out of clumsiness or ignorance, the ACM continues to be able to opt for less far-reaching supervisory tools. However, this does not entirely reassure the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-21.u6	Mrs Mulder is very concerned about clumsyness and resulting high fines for smaller companies. Can she give an example of a cartel formed purely on the basis of clumsiness?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-21.u7	It is right that D66 should ask this question. When you talk about the big cartels, I'm thinking about the example of the television screens Philips was involved in. D66 just brought that up himself. For those companies, it's a calculation at some point. If you stop that calculation after four years, it doesn't actually have a deterrent effect. I can follow that line of reasoning. However, we are more concerned with the next point. I'll get back to you on that. There have been 32 of them lately and 24 of them are small. It amounts to EUR 7.5 million. In imposing fines, the ratio is a bit lost. You're not talking about the megacartels. I was just talking to entrepreneurs yesterday. They sometimes gave the impression that the UWV is very consciously looking for mistakes that small companies make. They are then constantly getting in the way and we do not want to achieve that. That's what the CDA's worried about. If the Minister removes those concerns today, we might vote for this bill. However, if that does not become very clear, we will not vote for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-21.u8	I get that. I'm genuinely looking for the CDA's care. The CDA is normally a party that pleads for heavier penalties in the event of infringements. D66 is totally in line with the CDA on the point that we should not unnecessarily penalise or tax small businesses. However, in the event of an infringement, a supervisor can always say that it happened accidentally. Then the very high fine doesn't apply. So the limit you set in the law doesn't have so much to do with the treatment of a company that accidentally formed a cartel. Is there really any reason to change the law for that, while the judgment remains with the supervisor?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-21.u9	You can see that so far it's not working out so well for the smaller companies. It therefore seems more interesting to bring in these additional funds. That is also the CDA's objection, namely that smaller companies are being dealt with because this is easier than dealing with the big boys. This happens when we all agree here that it is precisely the big boys that need to be dealt with, if it turns out that they make a calculation and thereby harm the whole of society. I think that is perfectly clear. In the same NRC article of 11 April 2015, competition lawyers criticised the ACM for failing to address complex cases. The fact that this problem is more common in the Netherlands also proves the fraud approach in social security and in the labour market. The government eventually had to amend the Fraud Act after a court ruling and sharp criticism by the National Ombudsman and the House of Representatives. Can the Minister indicate how it will be possible to prevent a lack of decisiveness in large cases from being compensated by the passing of fines in very small cases? Have complaints from small businesses been received by the government or other bodies about this type of practice? Has the government learned from the problems caused by the Fraud Act? The CDA has read in its reply that in the last five years 32 offenders have been fined the maximum legal penalty in seven different cases. Of these 32 offenders, 24 are small, with an annual turnover of around 10 million or less in the year preceding the fine decision. Then what is the Minister's explanation for the fact that so many smaller companies are involved? The CDA has asked the government many questions about the ACM's capacity. In fact, the Minister has hardly answered this question. The ACM indicates that the increase in legal penalty ceilings requires specialist knowledge and an additional capacity of around €200,000. The Minister states that the government has a more conservative assessment of the impact of the bill on the budget of the ACM. So he expects it to be lower. Can the Minister indicate the cause of the differences in assessment? According to the government, does the ACM have the necessary specialist knowledge? What specialist knowledge is this, according to the Minister? If the bill will lead to a larger capacity attachment to the ACM, the government expects this to be met within its formation, without compromising the existing supervisory capacity. On what basis is this expectation based, the CDA wonders. Can the government indicate how the formation will change if the bill will lead to a larger capacity attachment to the ACM? The government also indicates that an appropriate solution will be sought in consultation with the ACM if bottlenecks in the ACM arise in the performance of its legal tasks. Can the government indicate what solutions are envisaged? To what extent is the Chamber still involved in this? Finally, I have three questions. First of all, I would like to ask whether this bill concerns only administrative fines in the areas of economic affairs and infrastructure and the environment. Or is it also about administrative fines in other areas, such as care? According to the minister, it's not the law's goal to increase the chances of getting caught. It is about increasing the preventive deterrent effect of the penalty ceilings. The Minister is right to say that the streamlining law, which entered into force last year, contains measures to increase the chance of taking parts. According to the Minister, is the chance of getting the best of it or can it be improved further? If so, does this law offer the possibility to do so? Then there's my last question. Why did the government abandon the ACM-wide payment scheme? This has not yet become clear to us in the reply. It may be clear that the CDA supports the D66 questions over the four years, because it is very strange that, if you can still make the calculation and it is convenient to do it in ten years, we would encourage it with this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-21.u10	Mr. Chairman. Well-functioning markets require a strong market master, one with teeth. Companies that break the rules must be dealt with hard. The approach must be terrifying. Sanctions and opportunities must be such that companies leave it out of their minds to violate the Competition Act. The VVD therefore welcomes the Minister's proposal to increase the fines that the ACM may impose. The proposed maximum fine of €900,000 or 10% of the annual revenue will soon be among the highest fines within the EU. To companies, the government shows that it does not accept fraud and cartel agreements. It also does not accept that the consumer should unknowingly draw the wallet for the profits of a company. In future cartel fines will also involve the number of years a cartel has existed, up to a maximum of four. The fine may thus amount to up to 40% of the annual turnover. If it's a recidivist, the fine will be doubled. Those who do not want to listen must feel, this proposal breathes. The VVD welcomes these proposals. Many fines imposed by the ACM are challenged before the courts by the undertakings concerned. Some of these fines are adjusted lower by the judge. How does the Minister view this? How is an increase in fines and their deterrent effect compatible with a practice whereby those fines are adjusted by the courts? The VVD wonders why the fines for the BES islands, as laid down in this law, are not increased. Why is the preventive deterrent effect not necessary on these islands? Right there, you could say. Can the Minister explain why he is maintaining the current ceiling of $56,000? The ACM also supervises pension funds. Such supervision shall be based on the same standards applicable to all undertakings. Understandable in itself, because pension funds should not restrict competition, not even through mergers. However, the notification thresholds currently applied by the ACM are such that almost all mergers must be reported and assessed, including mergers between very small or between large and very small pension funds. That seems to us to be an unnecessary administrative burden. The Minister agrees. The bill therefore rightly raises the thresholds. This saves small merging pension funds and the ACM a lot of time and costs. Small pension funds can save costs by merging and they are better able to invest in what they are here on earth, namely to pay good pensions to their customers. We also see small pension funds having difficulty finding capable directors. Mergers can partly overcome this problem and thus contribute to the professionalisation of the Chamber. We agree with the Minister's proposal, but Mr Mei Li Vos's amendment sets the threshold for small pension funds slightly higher than in the legislative proposal. In itself, an interesting thought from Mrs. Fox. How does the Minister feel about that? How does he see the balance between reducing administrative burdens and professionalising pension funds on the one hand and sufficient competition on the pension market on the other?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-21.u11	Mr. Chairman. The PVV is positive about the scope of this bill. Stricter penalties for companies that dup Dutch consumers with their infringements, of course, the PVV is in favour of that. We think it would have been more logical if this had been dealt with immediately with the streamlining act ACM, but it is good that this is happening now. We're wondering why the cartel fines are limited to four years. Fines must not only be dissuasive, they must also be fined for the entire period during which the company was in breach. Why would we want to limit the ACM in this? Indeed, the investigation shows that the advantage enjoyed by participating in a cartel is almost always higher than the fine received. Why is it that the Minister is not seeking compliance with existing deadlines in the legislation? For example, the Tax Administration already has a recovery period of five years if you have made an incorrect declaration. Companies are also obliged to keep their records for seven years. Evidence for cartels is therefore as easy or difficult for seven years as it is for four years. Can the Minister explain why such a relatively short term was chosen as four years? Can the Minister also explain what happens to the fines imposed if the EU takes over the ACM's investigations? Fines imposed by the ACM go to the Dutch State but if the EU takes over a cartel case and imposes a fine, where does that fine go? Can the Minister explain that system? As far as the PVV is concerned, that fine is returned to the victims. Finally, the PVV considers it particularly important for the responsible directors to be punished for violations detected by the ACM. After all, people in the workplace can do little about it if their employer cons on consumers. Can the Minister indicate to what extent directors are personally liable for, for example, cartel infringements and what sanctions apply to them? Is the Minister satisfied with these sanctions or is it appropriate to tighten them up?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-21.u12	Mr. Chairman. We, too, certainly agree with the proposal before us. I do have a few short questions for the Minister. Of course, cartels in the Netherlands need to be dealt with as much as possible, and it is also very important for them to be addressed at European level. Does the Minister now expect the increase he proposes to increase the number of cartel participants who volunteer themselves and thus turn themselves in? After all, getting out of line with European regulations makes it more attractive to declare yourself as a Dutch company earlier and to make use of the Leniency Notice. Does the Minister therefore expect a positive impact on this issue? How many pension funds actually merge on an annual basis? The bill refers to four mergers over the last five years, covering a total of 0.00004% of total annual premium receipts. Is there really a real market? The Minister also writes that a consolidation impact is desirable. Why exactly is this desirable and does the sector itself want to do so? Apparently, there is little need for mergers at all. I wonder whether the Minister has adequately examined whether this bill will have the effect we hope will have, namely that cartels will prevent less. I wonder, also because the Dutch Order of Lawyers has cracked a critical note about it in the consolidation process. It states that there is actually no evidence to show that an increase will have the desired effects, namely fewer cartels. In that light, I would also like to make the following point. The work visit we have recently made to the ACM has made me aware that it is particularly important that there is sufficient manpower and resources available. I'm a little worried about that. It is one thing that we always say when it comes to criminal law to increase the level of punishment, but if you do not increase the chances of getting caught, that is not going to do you much good in the end. Then we might be working on a piece of symbolism, and that's where I fit in.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-21.u13	That brings us to the end of the first term of office. The Minister can reply directly in principle.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-21.u14	Mr. Chairman. I will be happy to respond directly to what the spokesmen have said. I wonder whether I will be able to do the same for every part of the questions that Mrs Mulder has asked. It may be that I will return to one point in writing because she is asking for a number of details which I do not have in mind. I'll see how far I can get. It is perhaps appropriate to point out, in response to a comment made by Mr Verhoeven, that this is not just about cartel legislation. Cartel legislation is of course an important part of the ACM's work, but we are talking here about fines related to the Electricity Act, the Gas Act, the Institution Act Authority Consumer and Market, the Loodsen Act, the Competition Act and the Cartel Law, which Mr Verhoeven talked about, but also the Postal Act, the Railway Act, the Telecommunications Act, the Heat Act, the Consumer Protection Act, the Passenger Transport Act, the Implementation of EU Energy Efficiency Directives and the Law amending the Electricity Act 1998 and the Gas Act, i.e. the Law STROOM. It is therefore a whole package of ceilings applicable to the ACM. We're reviewing that whole package now. We had that set up because it was time to investigate this in response to signals we were getting, because it turned out that there were a number of problems to be solved. First, the cartel profits were higher than the fines, as the spokesmen indicated. This resulted in no or insufficient deterrent effect of the fines. Secondly, long-term infringements were subject to less penalties than short-term infringements. It shouldn't be. Thirdly, there was a lot of recidivism. This means that the doubling of the fine was not effective, because the maximum was quite low. You weren't allowed to exceed the maximum with the doubling. Well, then that recidivism doesn't work. Fourthly, the fine ceiling has never been adapted to inflation. This whole package of problems that arose, we have tried to reconcile with this bill, which is a positive welcome, as I have noticed from the tone of the spokesmen. As the spokesmen have said, it is ultimately a well-functioning market. That's what we want. We are not looking for fines, fine ceilings or people or companies, but we want the markets to function properly. However, markets do not function properly by themselves. If you don't do anything about it, there's a monopoly before you know it or there's no offer of things you think there should be. Public authorities must therefore ensure that conditions for healthy competition are created and monitored. An important condition for the proper functioning of markets is that there is a preventive deterrent effect, so that, firstly, people and companies who do not comply know that there is a great chance that they will be caught and, secondly, they are clear that the sanction is firm and that they should not get it. With regard to this possibility, we have strengthened and streamlined the powers of the ACM in the streamlining Act ACM, as the word " Streamlining Act" already says. I am convinced that what the Second and First Chambers have done together with the government on this issue has done what we believe was necessary in order to achieve a good chance. We will see whether our expectations will be met in the near future. I'll keep an eye on that. We are now talking about the penalty system, which we intend to improve. The system becomes quite clear. In the case of minor infringements, the fine is up to €900,000 or 1% of turnover if that is more than €900,000. The highest of both is the penalty limit. In the case of serious infringements other than cartel formation, the amount is €900,000 or 10% of turnover. In the case of cartel infringements, again, we are talking about €900,000, but we will not be able to achieve a maximum of 10% of turnover in one year, but we will go to a maximum of four times 10%. We are, to my knowledge, the only country in Europe to do so. All other countries limit themselves to one year in the order of 10%. I don't think that's enough. I think it's necessary to do more. How much more we have to do, I've looked closely at it. I am aware that I have to take into account what is in the Constitution. Article 89 (2) states that the penalty must be determined by law. It can't be that punishment is left in the middle a little bit in the sense that it can be four, five, six, eight years. With such a provision, it is highly questionable whether you comply with this article of the Constitution. In addition, the General Administrative Law requires that maximum fines should be proportionate. So if we do something that could be regarded as not proportionate, we would be in breach of that law. So I can't leave in the middle how high the punishment is. I have to make a provision stating how high that punishment is going to be. Before that, I looked at the average in cartel formation. That's four years. That's why I went to four times 10%. That means that we are four times as high as other countries in Europe. But the cabinet thinks it's good to do it this way, because cartel formation is so threatening. The punishment must be so terrifying that it will not be done. Four times 10% of the turnover or 40% of the turnover of a company is a huge punishment. It's a maximum. Whether this is actually achieved in individual cases, the ACM will be able to look at it all by itself. They're maxima. The ACM can determine the fine itself, as long as it does not exceed the maximum. With this we have set a very high ceiling and offer the ACM ample opportunity to come up with such a punishment, that it is perceived as a deterrent and that the desired effect is based on it. We must also realise that the ACM has to take into account the seriousness of the offence. If the ACM wants to reach the maximum of those four years, the seriousness of the infringement must also justify it. In doing so, the ACM should also consider the effects on survival, on the viability of the company. This aspect was also raised by the Court at the time. If a company makes a mistake, it has to be corrected, but if the effect of that is that the company falls down and the employment falls down, you will find a lot of people you do not want to meet. Therefore, that aspect should be weighted by the ACM. The provision in the Constitution, the provision in the General Administrative Law which prescribes proportional penalty limits, the proportionality that there must be.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. I am giving her a space that is much larger than that in other European countries. That space reaches up to four times 10% of the turnover, or 40% of the annual turnover of a company. I think that is a very deterrent effect. In my opinion, this is reasonably the maximum we could do, given the legal provisions I have just mentioned. Spokesmen also talked about the amount of €900,000. How did I get that amount? The €900,000 was made as follows: We now have €450,000 as the penalty limit, but we have not adapted it to inflation since 1998. In 2002, the fine was transferred to an amount in euros, but it remained the same in terms of pressure. All this time, it's been the same. If we had processed inflation in those years, it would have been an amount of €620,000. I do not think €620,000 is high enough, because I compared it with Germany, where in similar cases a fine of 1 million is involved. I have also looked at the fines that apply in the financial sector. Looking at the financial sector and looking at Germany, I have come to the conclusion that an amount of €900,000, a doubling of the current fine ceiling and materially €280,000 more than the inflation correction would indicate, is a reasonable amount. I am also dealing with this in the spirit of Mr.De Love, who has said that it will really have to be effective. We are in favour of market forces, said Mr De Love, but those who frustrate market forces must be dealt with thoroughly. By choosing that amount of €900,000 and also going to four times the percentage of 10% for cartel infringements, I acted in that spirit in my opinion. I was telling you how it was with the cartel violations, $900,000 plus four times 10% of the annual turnover. The doubling in the case of repeated offences remains, but since we have now substantially increased the fine ceilings, this means that in many cases the repetition and duplication will be felt. I think that we are achieving what we would like to achieve here too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-21.u15	For the record, I would like to ask the following question. Where is the difference between the Minister and the Dutch Order of Lawyers, where the Dutch Order of Lawyers says: recidivism is hardly a problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-21.u16	I'm happy if recidivism doesn't occur or hardly does. However, if there is a recurrence, I believe that adequate action should be taken against this. I think this should always be done in the case of recidivism, especially in cases like this. If you have fined a company, and if that company does it again a few years later, it seems to me that you are dealing with a company that requires serious treatment. This doubling makes it possible for the ACM to decide to do so. If, in the end, the effect of everything we do here is that there is no repetition at all and that there are no infringements at all, then we are all pleased. After all, our aim is not to obtain money through the fines, but to make the market work properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-21.u17	Of course: prevention is also a way of preventing victims. So I fully support what the Minister says here. It would be even better if it were so preventive that there wasn't even a recurrence, because there was no first offense either. However, I heard the Minister say clearly in his reply that this bill is also based on the idea that there is a great deal of repetition. I would like to know a little more about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-21.u18	I don't remember saying there's a lot of recidivism. I do not have any information on the prevention of recidivism. However, I believe that if there is a recurrence, an additional penalty is required. If there were little repetition, that would not be a reason for me not to give a higher penalty in cases where there is a recurrence. The ACM determines how high that penalty should be, but the maximum that the ACM should be allowed to hold as far as I am concerned is twice the maximum that would otherwise apply. Mrs Mulder is putting the finger on the sore spot for me by saying that in the coalition agreement a huge increase in fines has been estimated, whereas now only 10 million of them are left. There has been a provision in the coalition agreement which is not feasible, as has become clear to me and to others. I have already told the Chamber that I do not think it is possible to implement the agreement in the government agreement to raise more money through fines. In the meantime, I have found alternative cover for the elimination of this intended increase in income. As far as I am concerned, this is the unenforceable provision of the coalition agreement. Apart from that provision in the coalition agreement, I have looked at what needs to be done to ensure that the markets function properly, not from the point of view of getting as much money as possible, but to ensure that companies and people comply with the rules, so that the markets function properly, and that those who do not comply with the rules are properly punished. This resulted in a systematic approach, combined with an increase in the fine ceilings. The result is that an estimated 10 million more are coming in. I have estimated that amount; that amount is not an objective I am pursuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-21.u19	Then there remains a goal to get an x-amount. How does the Minister intend to ensure that it does not succeed in tackling the major parties and that it is dealt with as an alternative? How does the Minister view that? This is a concern of the CDA. We see it coming back in all kinds of other areas, and that is contrary to everything the CDA wants.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-21.u20	I can reassure Mrs Mulder that this is not an objective. It's an estimate. We have set up a system whereby companies that distort market forces are dealt with fairly by an independent regulator, regardless of whether they are large or small companies. Of course it's not like the big boys can run away and the little boys get caught. That is why we have a good independent supervisor. He's gotta get that done. The supervisor has not been instructed by me to meet the estimated fines. The supervisor has been instructed by me to ensure that the systems we have laid down in the law and the fines we are discussing are correctly applied. We shall then see what the amount will be. In my opinion, this is the amount of extra 10 million a year that I have just mentioned. However, it is an estimate and not a target amount.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-21.u21	Mrs. Mulder, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-21.u22	How does the Minister explain, looking back at the number of cases, that 24 out of 32 cases involve smaller companies? How does the Minister explain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-21.u23	This is explained by the fact that there are a lot more small companies than large ones. In number, we see that, for example, in the number of companies using the Wbso, a subsidy scheme for business in the field of innovation. In 97% of the cases, they are smaller companies. However, only 66% of the money goes to these companies, because although there are fewer larger companies, they are large companies where a lot is happening. That's the way it is in this case. We have a limited number of large companies and many small companies. We see the numbers of large and smaller companies in proportion reflected in the fines imposed. We cannot, however, pay more attention to the smaller companies. I believe that we should pay particular attention to small and medium-sized enterprises. I would like to pay particular attention to the large companies, because their social impact is greatest. However, that is not a licence for small businesses to mess around. Those who break the law must be punished.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-21.u24	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-21.u25	I'm working on getting some key points out of the spokesmen. I have dealt with Mr Verhoeven, Mrs Vos and others on four times 10%. The next item is pension funds. Mrs Vos was right to say that a change had been made as a result of her initiative. That's right. If two pension funds merged, both of which had more than 30 million in premium income and together had more than 150 million in premium income worldwide, they had to report that merger to the ACM. The ACM then examines whether there are problems with this merger and comes up with a view. Mrs Vos said at the time that there is a consolidation going on with pension funds, that this is desirable, that it is not necessary at all to report all those small pension funds that need to merge and that you can increase the limit of when to report. I thought Mrs. Vos was right about that. There is a process of consolidation and this is desirable, but we must note that competition is not entirely out of that market. It's a market, but not like the rest of the market. That is why we are finally putting the threshold three times higher than in other real markets. The fact is that there is a certain sense of a market and that a legislative proposal for a general pension fund has now been put into procedure, creating additional market forces. When it comes to large funds that can have a real effect, I think it is wise to have a report, so that the ACM can look at that. We therefore propose, in the spirit of what Mrs Vos said at the time, to increase these two times 30 million to two times 100 million in premium receipts and to increase the total of global premium receipts from both pension funds to 500 million. As Mrs Vos said, this means that only the 20 largest pension funds are affected. I think this is wise. Mrs Vos's proposal to raise the threshold even higher would mean that the balance sheet would fall. Let me give you an example. Suppose the Transport Pension Fund, with 15 billion of assets invested in my head, merges with KLM's pension fund, with 6 billion of invested assets. KLM's pension fund is just below the threshold that Mrs Vos is now proposing of 200 million in premium income. Such a major merger does not even need to be reported and the ACM does not have to look at it at all. I don't think that's wise. We are now working in the spirit of the impetus given by Mrs Vos, and we are not going through that. Mrs Vos proposes to set the threshold for premium receipts twice as high as I propose. The threshold is thus almost seven times higher than in the original situation. This makes it unnecessary. I therefore propose that her amendment should not be dealt with.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-21.u26	I have two questions. What is the market for second pillar pension funds? As a consumer read: I think that is the essence of a market. What is the added value of the ACM, if DNB and the AFM also monitor the functioning of pension funds and the like?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-21.u27	The added value of the ACM is that it can assess market effects. There is a limited market. Businesses are not all automatically covered by a single pension fund. There are options. To a limited extent, market forces exist. As far as market forces are concerned, this is reinforced by the introduction of the general pension fund, which will increase choice. We cannot ignore the aspect of market forces. The ACM knows that there is limited market functioning, but a certain market functioning is desirable. I don't want things to happen that are undesirable. That's what the ACM could be looking at. Mrs Vos and I have no difference of opinion in principle. Mrs Vos makes a proposal to leave the fifteen largest pension funds out of the picture in relation to this report, while I propose to keep the largest 20 out of sight. So it's just the 15 or the 20. In my opinion, our proposal is the most balanced one, and that is why I am defending it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-21.u28	Finally, Mrs. Fox.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-21.u29	So, if I understand correctly, market forces within the second pillar of pension funds are actually about the freedom of choice of employers and not employees. The minister's talking about that little piece of market. The added value of the ACM is that they can look at things that the AFM and DNB cannot view. Is that what the Minister says?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-21.u30	The role of the ACM in relation to pension funds is not under discussion. The ACM has a legal role to play and Mrs Vos does not deny that role either. I told you, the only difference between her and me is 15 or 20. That's for sure. I cannot now give an analysis of all aspects of market forces, but there is a certain market effect for pension funds. It's less, and that's why we're setting the threshold three times higher. However, this degree of market forces tends to increase in the future as a result of the general pension fund. Then it makes sense to maintain the role of the ACM. Mrs Vos does the same, but she comes to another consideration. I'm defending my judgment. I mentioned the example of a merger between a pension fund of 15 billion and a pension fund of 6 billion. If the ACM is not given an opportunity to have an opinion on this, I do not think it would be wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-21.u31	I want to know how long you think you need in terms of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-21.u32	Do you think I've been long-winded?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-21.u33	No, but I have other debates, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-21.u34	I'll get through it as soon as I can, Mr. Chairman. Mr Verhoeven asked when the implementation of the antitrust directive would come. The bill will be presented to the Chamber as soon as possible by the Minister for Security and Justice, after receiving the opinion of the Council of State. We are now in the phase of the internet consultation. The procedure has therefore been initiated and I think that the offer by the Minister of Justice to the Lower House can take place in the first half of 2016. Mr Verhoeven referred in particular to the points that I was the first to deal with, and I hope that this has been done to the satisfaction of Mr Verhoeven. Mrs Vos supported some of Mr Verhoeven's points and addressed the pension sector in particular. I hope that has also been adequately answered. I have answered Mrs Mulder's comments on the mandate. I have also responded to her comments about the four years. She asked what was the reason for the legislative amendment, whether it was about raising money or increasing the impact of the ACM. I do not know whether this fully reflects the views of Mr Fonteijn of the ACM, who sees more success in standard support discussions. I think that these views are balanced and Mr Fonteijn is pleased to be working with the ACM. Where he talks about standard support talks, there is nothing to stop him from doing so. In addition, fines are important and I believe that fines should also be limited. I think the maximum was too low. We have increased that and it is good that we are doing so. So I would say: and continue these standard support talks, and perform adequately if a fine is really to be paid. Then do so and let that fine also be such that it has a sufficient deterrent effect. I have answered Mrs Mulder's questions about small businesses. I come to the capacity of the ACM. I think every part of the government you take to the head is the same. If you start talking about the important work that one does and you ask about the capacity, all government components will tell you that they have too little capacity. However, the political parties will then redesign their electoral programmes and the government will again be severely reduced. Then we have to have a smaller government, then we have to have less money and then we have to work more efficiently. Those things, of course, compete with each other. You can't meet all the wishes and also make the government smaller. We at the ACM, as one of the parts of the government, try to ensure a proper occupation that can be done in a reasonable way. If the penalty ceilings are increased, there will be some work to be done, but things are happening elsewhere which will free up some capacity. I don't know exactly how many people work at the ACM, but I think there's a big 500. When things like this happen, you have to put them in there. We've recently evaluated the ACM. I intend to send that evaluation to the Chamber at the turn of the year. I will also discuss the occupation and the expectations surrounding the ACM. I will state whether everything is still being done in a responsible manner in my opinion. Mrs Mulder has asked whether this bill is also about care. I started my speech by stating exactly what laws it is about. That is the limitative list of all the laws to which the increase in the fine ceilings applies. Mrs Mulder also asked why there was no ACM-wide payment scheme. I must remain guilty of the answer to that. I can't give you that. I will try to obtain information on this for the second term of the Chamber and to deal with it in my second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-21.u35	Thank you for your answer. The Minister has already answered many of my points. One of the questions I had asked was about the competition lawyers who criticised the ACM because they would not deal with complicated cases. Does the Minister recognise that criticism and, if so, what does he do with it in relation to the ACM?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-21.u36	I don't believe in talking away criticism. I think it can always be better. When those involved come up with criticism, you have to listen and look carefully. As a result of this criticism, we can also draw attention to this point in the evaluation. We shall see whether this is the case and discuss it with the Chamber. My impression, based on my knowledge of the ACM, is that the ACM does not. Complicated matters naturally occupy a large and long time on your capacity. Then you have to consider, because there are all kinds of other things that need to be done. How do you do that? You know, that's a bit of a pinch, like it's a pinch on all of us, even in your work and in my work. That's just part of it. If there is criticism of you, me or the ACM, we must listen to it. Then we need to see if there's any possibility of improvement. We shall therefore also look at this point in the evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-21.u37	I would like to thank the Minister for his commitment on this point. It is therefore taken into account in the evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-21.u38	I thank Mr De Love for the support he has given. It is important that he and I look at the same thing at the point of the functioning of the market. Otherwise it would also become a bit politically unclear, I estimate. So Mr. Love's approach is my approach. I'm happy about that. Mr. De Love also wonders how I look at the fine reduction by the judge. I think that should be looked at on a case-by-case basis. The ACM has been imposed by us, but between zero and the penalty limit much has to be weighed and assessed. In an individual case, you create your mind up as ACM and see what should happen. That will be the penalty imposed. Then, in our rule of law, we have the opportunity to go to court. If the judge corrects the fine, that's a signal for the ACM. If there are multiple signals, the ACM will take this into account to a greater extent. I do believe that the increase in fines, particularly in the case of cartel infringements, sends a clear signal from the legislator to all those involved. We think it is desirable that the fines should be dissuasive and therefore allow the fines to be higher. We must now look at how the functioning of the ACM and the application of the extended possibilities will work out in practice and how it will stick to the courts. In all cases, of course, I cannot question the independence of the judge. Mr De Liefde also spoke about the BES islands. I have tried for years to avoid that word and to talk about "Caribbean Netherlands," because that sounds so much more friendly. "BES Islands" sounds so technocratic. I think I lost that fight, because it's all about the BES. We're talking about Bonaire, Saint Eustatius and Saba. I have not received any signals that the penalty ceilings applied there, Mr De Liefde himself mentioned the amount of $56,000 worth of US dollars.... are not sufficiently dissuasive. As soon as I get signals from that, I'm gonna have to act there too. As a result of what Mr.De Love has said on this point, I will be extra attentive to consider how this now works in practice in the BES islands, whether it is right that there are no signals and whether it is something that we really need to look into. I'll take the point of interest he's given me. To Mr De Liefde I referred to Mrs Vos's amendment on pension funds. I come to Mrs Klever's questions, which also dealt with the cartel provisions and the increase in the fine to four times 10%. She wondered what would happen to the fine money if the European Union took over the case. My answer is that the fine will then go to the European Union. I'll check this out. If this is any different, I will come back to that in the second term. The liability of directors is arranged separately. You are liable as a driver in those cases that are laid down in the law. You will then be liable for culpable actions. This law, which only looks at penalty ceilings being increased, has no influence whatsoever on the liability of directors. If there are any further questions, I would like to hear them and I or one of my colleagues will discuss them on occasion. Mrs. Gesthuizen is asking if we are already getting more notifications from cartel offenders. I don't have any data on that. Mrs Gesthuizen finds this interesting, so I will see if those data are available. If these aren't there right now, I might take some time to follow what's happening. I will come back to this on another occasion, following what she has said. Mrs Gesthuizen also asks if I expect fewer offences due to higher fines. The higher penalty ceilings, especially if they are, as it is intended, translated by action by the ACM, will indeed lead to that. The ACM is currently running against these fine ceilings in a large number of cases, but this will not be the case anymore. Higher fines will also be imposed in practice. I expect that this will have a greater deterrent effect and that there will be fewer offences. Ms Gesthuizen also discussed the capacity of the ACM. When I went into that a moment ago, I did the same towards Mrs Gesthuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-21.u39	Let me look at the Members to see if there is a need for a second term. That's the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-21.u40	May I ask for a short suspension? I have to prepare an answer on one point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-21.u41	That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-21.u42	Not all Members need a second term, but Mrs Mulder does.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-21.u43	Mr. Chairman. I do not need four minutes, but I would like to make a few points. I would like to thank the Minister for his clarity about the smaller company in particular, namely that it is an estimate and not a target. The CDA really wants to prevent smaller companies from getting more or less screwed up by the need to show decisiveness with the collection of fines. I think the Minister has been quite clear about this today. Thank you for the commitment that we will receive the evaluation of the ACM and that it will also address the CDA's capacity demand. I would also like to thank the Minister for his commitment to address the criticisms of the competition lawyers. The evaluation of the Fraud Act has dealt with a number of issues. Does the Minister still want to involve them? I think it would be fine if, at a later date, but I would like to have an answer before the votes, to the wide-ranging payment arrangements.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-21.u44	Mr Verhoeven also needs a short second-term contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-21.u45	Mr. Chairman. It seemed to be so short that there was almost no second term; I thought that was too short. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I still have one point to make. The Minister now chooses to take the average of four years as the maximum. The Minister knows I'd rather go to a higher number of years as a maximum. I would prefer not to have a ceiling at all, but at the moment there seems to be no support for this in this Chamber. It seems to be even legally difficult, on the basis of the Constitution and other laws. The VVD has just presented a number of legal matters. So I'd like to take a look at that. What would the Minister say about a seven-year term? This is in line with the retention obligation that companies have for their data in the accounts. I am looking for a way in which cartel cases at the top, namely cases that last more than four years, are not penalised less severely by the average of four years, which the minister calls the average duration of a cartel. That is the thrust of our amendment, which ties in with the number of years that the cartel has lasted. That's my only point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-21.u46	I shall now give the floor to the Minister. He too can be brief and concise.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-21.u47	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Gesthuizen asked me in her first term for repeat figures. I'm going to collect those numbers and present them to the Chamber. Mrs Klever asked about the EU fine. I said that it is likely that the fine will remain with the EU, and indeed it will. Mrs Mulder asked why there is no payment arrangement in the bill. I think it is indeed necessary to have a payment arrangement. For that sort of thing, we have the General Administrative Law. It regulates things that apply to a lot of laws. In this case, it concerns Article 4:94, fourth paragraph of the General Administrative Law Act. It states that the administrative bodies have the opportunity to make a payment arrangement. The ACM is going to apply this article and it should, but that is why it is not necessary to include it separately in this legislative proposal. After all, material is achieved what Mrs Mulder wants to achieve. Mrs Mulder gave an extra focus on the evaluation. She said that the evaluation of the Fraud Act highlighted a number of points that are also relevant to this issue. It therefore wishes to see them involved in the evaluation. I'll do that. Mr Verhoeven pointed out with his characteristic flexibility that he would also be prepared, albeit not unlimited, to return to the cartel fines, because he wanted to hold on to them. He asks: couldn't you take a seven-year term? I think I've been going very far with those four years. There is no European country that does this. 10% of turnover in a year is seen in Europe as a deterrent to cartels. We do not think this is enough in the Netherlands. I want four times 10%, i.e. 40%, while others by 10% are enough. Imagine having a company with a $1 billion turnover in a cartel, and you could get a $400 million fine. I think this is going to affect the company's pre-existence very quickly. We also have to take into account what the Chamber has said on previous occasions. I think we are going very far with the greatest increase in the fine ceiling on this point, and I would like to limit it to that. Mr Verhoeven makes a great gesture by agreeing to seven years. I'd still like to turn off that outstretched hand and leave it at that for four years.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-21.u48	It would not be good for me to say now that the Minister is reacting to my proposals with his distinctive strength.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-21.u49	Now you've said it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-21.u50	Now I've wrestled it in between; no! I thank the Minister for the answer. In the investigation, the maximum duration of a cartel was 12 years. That's a bigger cartel. In this way, you leave relatively unpunished cartels, which are indeed heavier than those in all the other European countries, I know that the large cartels that last for a long time, especially if you look at the fact that in 98% of the cases they produce more than the cartels cost. I'm stuck with that. I will consider my amendment. I know the Minister's been thinking a lot for four years. I would like to give him the following: twelve years is something quite different than four years. The investigation reveals four years as an average, but not as a maximum of the duration of the cartel.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-21.u51	Twelve years really is an extreme exception, because the average is four years. The principle of proportionality should apply. The penalty must be proportionate to the seriousness of the infringement. If you can get a fine with this proposal that means that you have 40% of the total turnover of a year. I'm not talking about profit, but about the turnover of a year..................................................................................................................................................................................... Going any further is hard or hard to defend. That is why I am happy to stick to this proposal and advise against Mr Verhoeven's amendment. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-21.u52	I'll take a look around. There were no questions left. I would like to thank the Minister and Members of Parliament for this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-21.u53	We shall be voting on the legislative amendment and the amendment tabled on Tuesday.
