ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-4.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and the Environment to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the CDA Group, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for answering our questions. This proposal for a directive is about the implementation of an EU directive, and I will not push up that long title, which will take a step towards further liberalisation of European rail traffic, a step which, if it is right, will ensure fair and balanced access for different carriers to the railways. In this context, it is interesting to hear from the State Secretary how far implementation has progressed in other countries. The pieces say that she doesn't keep an active record, but no doubt there is a list. We'd like to hear more about that. These proposals for transposition are sometimes purely technical in nature; they require little attention. However, that is not how we see this proposal. The key question is, as far as we are concerned, whether the translation of the directive into the legislative proposal before us will ensure fair and equal access. We have also taken advantage of the proposal to put in general terms some questions about railway management in the Netherlands, a subject that is undoubtedly topical, and also the interest of colleagues on the other side of the Binnenhof. However, the subject also deserves attention in this Chamber, following the investigation of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry on Privatisation/Independence Public Services. From this point of view, we still have two questions, namely the many roles played by the Secretary of State, or, if you like, the hats she has on, and the calculation and settlement of the usage fee. On this subject, we believe that the problem of caps is particularly worrying, as is the question of the poor transposition of the directive. Let's start with the division of roles. If we see it correctly, then the Secretary of State fulfils the role of shareholder of the independent ProRail, and at the same time is the client of ProRail, but also of one of the largest users of the network, NS. Our questions about the separation of these roles have actually been answered satisfactorily. The main thrust was: that is how it is arranged, that is good, so you can assume it. To put it this way, we've been sent a little bit with a rug in the reed next to the railroad. However, among other things, in the debate following the parliamentary investigation Privatisation/Seviction Government services of this Chamber, much attention has been paid to a good definition of and a good distinction in the roles that government plays in SOEs such as ProRail. Last week, in a letter, the Court of Auditors drew attention to this and put forward two cases. We also wonder whether the current and difficult discussions about the position and working methods of ProRail and the relationship between the Secretary of State, its Ministry and ProRail do not arise precisely from the insufficiently clear definition, distinction and separation of roles and responsibilities. We would like to see and, above all, to hear that the Secretary of State is today trying to provide a more considered, substantive answer, including the identification of possible alternatives and advantages and disadvantages. Why can't these roles be spread across different rulers and departments? It is not so arranged now, I know, but I do not think that is an argument for or against a fundamental question such as this. For example, what does the Secretary of State think of the idea that ProRail's shareholdership, like almost all other State shareholders, including NS, is also exercised by Finance, ignoring the criticism that the Minister of Finance has heard about the current implementation of the shareholder role. Basically, it seems to us to be pure. And the commissioning of ProRail, together with the management of the road and water infrastructure at one managing person at the Ministry of I and M, and the commissioning of NS at the other on I and M? Why are we more educated at NS than at ProRail? As long as the political success of the Secretary of State is measured above all, it may seem a little different now, but still the degree to which NS meets the expectations will always be complicated. That is what we see, in the most literal sense of the word. We would like to hear from the Secretary of State today a good, more fundamental consideration on this issue. The tension I have just indicated is also seen in practice in the way in which ProRail deals with user fees and their settlement. If we see it correctly, ProRail's revenue consists essentially of two sources that are communicating vessels: on the one hand, a contribution from the I and M budget, on the other hand, the use of rail charges, levied by NS, freight transport operators and regional passenger transport operators. To determine whether the distribution of the usage fees is optimal, you have to answer three questions: what costs can you recover through the usage fee, reflect those costs as efficiently as possible, and is the key right? Spikt is now that the ACM monitors the way two of the three questions are answered, but not the third. There is independent supervision of the determination of the key and of the costs to be included in the usage fee but not known about those costs. This latter aspect is covered by the management agreement, which is supervised by only the State Secretary and her department. ProRail and the Ministry thus essentially determine the degree of efficiency themselves, without independent test. As far as we are concerned, the current approach is not a guarantee of independence. The EU Directive calls for the "lowest possible costs" to be passed on, but this standard is not included in the Dutch transposition. The directive calls for "stimuli" to promote efficiency, but we have not read them in Dutch transposition. The Secretary of State states that the government has sufficient interest not to grant too much subsidy and suggests that this is an incentive to efficiency. That the government prefers not to pay too much subsidy, I am happy to assume, but the government itself does not have the best track record when it comes to assessing efficiency. Recent reports also suggest that there is still much to gain from ProRail in terms of efficiency. Will the Secretary of State again explain why there is no independent monitoring of the efficiency of management costs and why the translation of the directive on this point is so limited? Is it not worth considering supplementing or adapting the government's plans in this respect? We didn't like the previous answers, I told you. In this respect, they mainly describe the actual situation. Following our reference to the way in which the ACM does assess the efficiency of grid operators in the energy sector, the State Secretary notes that the difference is that system operators in that sector may pass on their costs to the customer, hence the need for that independent test in this sector, and not in railway management. But isn't it true that NS can also pass on the payment for the rail to the customer? And freighters can in principle do the same, as long as the market allows. In other words, we still do not see why an efficiency test by the ACM would not be obvious in this sector either. The lack of an independent efficiency assessment is already problematic in itself, but there is also the relationship between the state contribution and the use fees. If the State contribution is reduced, there is a great temptation to try to compensate or cancel that discount through the usage fee and to set the account with the users and their customers. This can be done sneaking in and therefore independent monitoring of the efficiency of the costs included in the usage fee is also of great importance. Based on the reports from the other side of the Binnenhof in recent days, it seems that the relationship between the Ministry and ProRail is only intensifying. That relationship isn't optimal. The Secretary of State is pulling on the reins, it seems. This is cause for concern in two respects: on the one hand, because it only jeopardises the independence of ProRail as a railway manager, as the EU demands from us, and, on the other hand, because we think we are seeing another example of a "regulation reflex": there is a problem and The Hague is responding through more rules and more intensive interference. However, there is little or no evidence that this response is successful in the longer term. Cramping and stagnation seem more likely to me. I would therefore like to ask the Secretary of State once again how it intends to guarantee the independent position of ProRail if, at the same time, the direction by the Ministry becomes more rigid. As always, we await the Secretary of State's response with great interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-4.u3	Thank you. The next speaker, Mr Van Hattem, gave his maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-4.u4	Mr. Chairman. It is a special honour to be able to speak for the first time in this beautiful, historic hall. The subject of the present bill, the amendment of the Railway Act, does not seem so exciting, but that was sometimes different. In 1860, in this room, the First Chamber rejected the new Railway Act, which led to the fall of the Rochussen cabinet. By the way, Prime Minister Jan Jacob Rochussen was a born Brabander whose father was in the Provincial States of North Brabant. My spokespersonship in this Chamber at IMPRO............................................................................................................................................................. After all, there is an excellent interaction with the core tasks of the province and the experience with the elaboration of national laws and regulations at a decentralised level is added value for me. At the same time, I want to represent the interests of our citizens well here in The Hague. For me, it takes some getting used to the way this Chamber works. It's very different from the provincial states after all. Especially on this subject you have the feeling of getting on a moving train. Unfortunately, I have to note that the rolling train of this bill is heading towards Brussels at full speed. Today we are discussing an adaptation of our national legislation to the dictates of the Eurocrats in Brussels. The aim of this proposal is, after all, "This directive aims to take a further step towards the creation of a single European railway area. Further integration of the European railways is seen as an essential element in the further development of the European internal market in which free movement of goods, services and persons is ensured throughout the European Union." The PVV completely disagrees with this underlying objective. Brussels should not interfere with the Dutch track. The imposition of market liberalisation by the EU is highly undesirable. As a sovereign country, we must be able to make our own decisions and make our own arrangements with the neighbouring countries. We do not need Brussels' meddling and bureaucracy for that. In this context, I will return to the era of Rochussen, the nineteenth century, when the first railways were built. A European Union has not yet been mentioned, quite the contrary. The nation states were on the rise. Without the EU, the Netherlands was perfectly capable of achieving good international rail links. Nijmegen was even connected to the German network via Kleef rather than to the Dutch network. At the station of the Brabant village of Valkenswaard you could buy a ticket for a direct connection to Paris-Gare du Nord. All without the EU. The starting point for the PVV is less EU. However, this legislative proposal is the way forward to further EU interference. After all, it creates the conditions for a possible opening-up in the future of the Dutch rail market, as a step in the gradual introduction of the Fourth Railway Package, with a mandatory tender. When the time comes, chances are that our own NS will disappear and be swallowed up by Deutsche Bahn or the French railway company. Those last two are still state-owned companies. The Netherlands, as a good boy in the EU class, has always taken the lead in privatisation and is being paid back by foreign state-owned companies, without us having any direction in it. The PVV therefore prefers that the split of NS and ProRail is reversed and another direct NS is created by the Ministry. Indeed, there is no real competition and market forces on the railways and there are therefore no advantages for passengers and shippers. It was because of Pim Fortuyn that I became politically active. Unfortunately, he has been deprived of the opportunity to express his vision in the States General. It is therefore very special for me to be able to quote Pim Fortuyn in this Chamber on this subject. As a true visionary, he described the situation that is now occurring some fifteen years ago. In the rubble of eight years of Purple, Fortuyn writes: "Privating a public good with monopoloid traits is not a good idea and is extremely annoying for the consumer end user. Prices go up and the product delivered is declining in quality and the future of the products and services is not secure at all." On the privatisation of the NS, Fortuyn specifically states: "Privatising the NS and liberalising the railways, it all makes no sense. Such a thing only works if you can build at least one more competitive rail next to the existing rails, as happened in Japan. Well, that is too expensive and cannot be in an overcrowded country like ours. Without multiple railway lines next to each other, there is also no competition and we should not begin to do so." These words certainly apply to the present proposal and are typical of the current situation. Last weekend, the media reported that freighters are suing ProRail for a draconian increase in rail infrastructure charges. All carriers should pay EUR 30 million more. The NS can charge this in the price of train tickets for the passengers, which can therefore be more expensive. Branch organisation for freight transport KNV argues that this is putting pressure on the competitive position of Dutch freight transport operators and it is completely opaque how the rail charging rates are achieved at ProRail. It is an irrefutable bluff, according to director Toet van de KNV. One of the objectives of the present proposal is precisely to regulate the framework for this pricing more transparently. It provides the legal basis for the establishment of a charging framework which includes changes to the method of passing on costs into the usage fee and the construction of the usage fee. The charging framework is developed in a General Administrative Measure, which the State Secretary attached to the Chamber. In short, the intended design is as follows. The administrator, in this case ProRail, shall set a fee for the minimum access package on the basis of the agreed charging framework. This charging framework includes a method of charging costs that is subject to ex ante control by the ACM. The starting point here is the total cost in the administrator's budget, where the costs directly resulting from the operation of a train service can be passed on. This method will be valid for up to five timetable years. The ACM's ex ante control appears to make the system of this method more transparent. It seems, because in spite of this review, it is only a question of whether this makes the tariff setting sufficiently transparent. Article 5 and the Article-by-Article explanatory notes to the draft Decision describe how the allocation of costs directly resulting from the operation should take place. In principle, this is based on empirical data from the administrator. I quote: "ProRail has business models and can use these models to calculate the costs directly resulting from the operation of the train service." The question here is to what extent the empirical data and business models provided by the administrator are sufficiently reliable to achieve a transparent pricing method. This question is all the more urgent now that publications in the media have revealed that internal reports by ProRail would show that it would have been a financial mess with the company for five years and that it is not excluded that fraud has been committed by the railway manager. I quote: "A December 2014 report states that there is financial uncertainty and key positions are vacant. There are also unexplained gaps in the financial administration. House accountant Ernst & Young knew that, but has nevertheless endorsed the 2014 annual report. Those concerned do not exclude the need to adjust the figures subsequently." This brings me to the following questions to the Secretary of State. 1. Is the Secretary of State aware of the media coverage and the observations it contains on the problems of the financial administration and possible fraud at ProRail? Are these observations correct? 2. How can the State Secretary rely on the budgeted costs and the underlying empirical data and business models of ProRail referred to in this proposal to establish the method of allocation for the charging framework, if there is a lack of financial administration and possibly even fraud at ProRail? 3. Does the Secretary of State have sufficient confidence in ProRail that he will provide reliable and fraud-proof figures in the future in the context of the tax system in question? In addition, Article 10 (3) of the draft Decision provides for a provision which may be laid down by ministerial rules with regard to the approval of the method of allocation by the Authority Consumer & Market. Does the State Secretary, in the current situation, see the need to lay down such detailed rules in order to ensure a more transparent method of allocation? If not, is it convinced that there is at present sufficient basis to be able to rely on a transparent method of allocation in the coming timetable years? And then my last question in the first term. Can the Secretary of State indicate to what extent the present implementation of an EU directive is a further step towards the future opening of the Dutch rail market to foreign carriers and to what extent it considers this desirable?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-4.u5	Please stand still, Mr Van Hattem. Thank you for your contribution and my heartfelt congratulations on your maiden speech. I would also like to say a few words about your background here. With your 32 years, you are among the young people who entered the Upper House last June. I must point out that neither you nor any of the other young senators who have recently taken office sets a record in this house. The youngest senator ever is still SP'er Driek van Vugt, who joined this Chamber as a 19-year-old in 1999. I suspect this record will remain in the books for a long time to come. You started your career as a commercial outbound salesman at a call center in 2004, but you soon became involved in politics. This happened in the province where you were born and where you still live today: North Brabant. You can rightly be called a Fortuynist, a follower of the late Pim Fortuyn, who also quoted you. At first you were active for the LPF, the List Pim Fortuyn; first with the Young Fortuynists, the youth organisation of the LPF, of which you were president from 2005 to 2010. The youth branch, like other parties, had a hate-love relationship with the mother party. From 2006 to 2010, you were a member of the LPF municipal council in Eindhoven and also a member of the council committee or citizen of the LPF group in Eindhoven. However, the LPF was abolished in 2008. In 2011 you joined the PVV as a member of the Provincial States of North Brabant, where you have been party chairman since 2013. You also took an internship with the Dutch Parliamentary Group of the PVV. As an HBO-educated lawyer, you have been established as an independent legal adviser since 1 February 2015. Last summer, you came with preferred votes for the PVV in the Upper House. Your political action so far has apparently not gone unnoticed by members of Provincial States in North Brabant, otherwise they would not have chosen you with your preferred vote in the First Chamber. I wish you every success in your further contribution to the work of the Chamber. I shall suspend the sitting in a moment to give my fellow Members the opportunity to congratulate you on your maiden speech and I shall be the first to congratulate you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-4.u6	I give the floor to Mr Kuiper.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-4.u7	Mr. Chairman. First of all, on behalf of my group, I would like to congratulate Mr Van Hattem on his maiden speech. In front of us is a legislative proposal aimed at implementing a recent European directive, now yes, recently, from 2012 with regard to the organisation of our rail transport in Dutch legislation. It concerns the replacement of a number of older directives, including the mother of all directives in the field of public transport from 1991. The implementation of that directive began a rather erratic process of policy-making and redesigning of public transport in the Netherlands. The fates of the NS are often described and illustrate this erratic policy. I use this amendment to discuss with the Secretary of State about the organisation on the Dutch track. By this I mean the sustainable establishment of a rail system and also a more satisfactory arrangement between rail transport operators and infrastructure managers, because no matter how you turn it or turn it around, these issues are getting behind this bill; they are the actual governing issues. Debates on this matter are rare in the Upper House, because not everything is regulated by law. This was also noted during the treatment of the Railway Act in 2003. At that time the order on the track was already more or less crystallized in the Lower House, after years of debate, while the First Chamber at that time felt the need to have a fundamental debate on it. It has also done so, calling for a permanent assessment of the situation on the railways. We must do the same by holding the debate. There is reason for this; we are on the eve of new decisions and developments. The European Commission still has to take a decision on the Fourth Railway Package, which, perhaps, I must say, is likely to put new pressure on rail transport, including on the main rail network of which the NS has the concession. Furthermore, the Minister of Finance will decide on the future position of NS as a state-owned company. All this calls for clear choices and a vision of the market and the organisation of the railways. And in the end, this bill, the transposition of the directive, also calls for this. The directive is based on that vision. This vision is no different from that of 1991, when liberalised public transport was seen as the cornerstone of the internal market. The European Commission has since been consistent in this respect: European rail must become a market with competitive carriers. The new directive makes this clear by talking about the completion of the single market with free competition. That is also the aim of the Fourth Railway Package. I am therefore asking for an explanation of the answer that I received in the context of the written preparation of the Secretary of State. It states in the reply that full open market operation is outside the scope of the Directive. Is that true? And if this open market operation is excluded, is it outside the Fourth Railway Package? I dare to doubt that. Today rather than tomorrow, the European Commission wants all Member States to compete on track with transport companies. The position of the Dutch Government is formally opposed to this. It takes the view that the scope for making its own choices for the main network, in this case the concession to NS, is not limited. That may be so, but in the meantime it is not sufficiently clear what the Netherlands' own vision of the European Commission's direction is. That's what I'm asking right now. It would be good if we were to make a more definitive statement on sustainable planning on the railways. I am, of course, curious to see whether, if we say yes to this bill, we will be able to take up our own position when the Fourth Track Package comes at us with all its consequences. The government now writes that it wants to do so, but the question is whether it is giving away the space for that right now. Of course, this regulation affects, on the one hand, the relationship between NS and competing carriers on the sidelines and, on the other hand, the relationship between NS and ProRail. I do not need to argue how unsatisfactory these relations are or at least how much they are and remain the subject of discussion. The smaller carriers complain about the power of NS and the split between NS and ProRail is considered to be a historical error that continues to work as long as these two companies do not cooperate fully. The House of Representatives already called this split "unthoughtful and unwise" in 2005. The Eerste Kamer wanted evaluation and new considerations on this issue in 2003. That hard split between NS and ProRail was our interpretation of the 1991 directive when we started running for all European troops and separated the infrastructure manager completely from the national carrier. I have noticed that Article 6 (2) of the new directive states that the separation between the two may also be expressed 'in the existence of separate departments within the same undertaking'. It seems that those Member States which have an integrated form between the rail transport operator and the management of infrastructure, for example in a holding company, have been able to make their mark on the content of this Directive. Is that also the State Secretary's opinion? Have Germany and France been able to redeem their reservations in this directive? The question of what the Dutch Government is going to do with this implemented directive is important for this debate. What's next? Is she indeed taking the space to make her own choices or is that space being permanently restricted? In any case, there will have to be a longer-term vision of rail planning. To this end, I would like to refer to an interesting article that appeared in Socialism and Democracy last August. This seems mandatory to me for a secretary of state of the PvdA house. The article is written by Maarten Veraart, a seasoned track expert. After finding that the European vision of railway organisation will have disastrous consequences and affect the scale and integration benefits of the current rail system, he continues with an interesting proposal: choose the model of a national carrier that will allow the re-integration of functions of NS and ProRail. This model leaves all the space to use regional lines in which NS is not allowed to participate from the point of view of functional separation. NS then has the primary task of providing passenger transport services on the main rail network. I would like to hear the response of the Secretary of State to this interesting proposal. My group would welcome it if we had a final discussion on the organization of the railways, in which we ourselves are in charge and we are not dependent on what might be forced on us by this directive. It's necessary. This weekend, the national newspapers unraveled with great stories about NS, ProRail or both and what's wrong there. Is it not time to take a step up and find a national solution to an overly long debate? My group would not like this bill to pass in silence here without any perspective on the follow-up. That is why we are holding this debate. We would like to consider the response of the Secretary of State to our final assessment of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-4.u8	Mr. Chairman. If you read the EU directive that is implemented by this change of law in our legislation, you will see in the recitals that there must be a single European railway area in which companies can, or rather, compete freely with each other. The railway infrastructure must be housed in a separate undertaking. Railway undertakings must have or be granted a statute for an independent undertaking operating in accordance with commercial principles, which addresses the needs of the market. Greater integration of the European transport sector is a fundamental element of the completion of the internal market and an essential component of it is the railways. This single market could, according to the Directive, achieve sustainable mobility. My group would also like to make a point of practicality. Here we build on rules that go back to 1991. Would it not be useful, for example, if an explanatory statement were to indicate what the recent additions are? The SP is in favour of being able to travel easily across borders, but we do not believe that unbridled competition on rail between commercial companies is the best method for this. In fact, we have seen a significant deterioration in rail transport since the abolition of NS in 1995. I'll come back to that later. In the eyes of the SP, public transport has one goal, and that is the fast, safe and comfortable transport of persons and goods, and that is also at a reasonable price. We see it as a useful function on which democratic control must be exercised, and on which the government must direct. This does not, of course, mean that transport stops at the border; cooperation is obviously desirable. Since the 1990s, the SP has pointed out in several publications the negative effects that liberalisation and privatisation may have. Think of the energy market, the housing market, the care sector, but certainly also public transport. In 2012, the Upper House of Representatives conducted a parliamentary investigation into privatisation and independence, in which a harsh judgment is reached on the division of NS and ProRail and is called for a merger. This has already been discussed by my predecessors. The First Chamber has adopted the recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry with our support. But apparently the work of this committee of inquiry has made little impression on the Ministry. I'd like to know from the Secretary of State why she's going on this road? How does this survey relate to the present proposal? In the Lower House, the SP but also the PvdA have advocated the reuniting of NS and ProRail. Again, we have consistently expressed our opposition to the philosophy of continuing the market operation of public transport in the European context. By the way, this call has always been supported by figures. Since the independence of NS, it went downhill with the accuracy and service and the number of complaints increased. We don't see any real improvements; both NS and ProRail were fined last year for 2013 due to a lack of punctuality and customer satisfaction. The punctuality for 2003 was 92%; about last year a roaring report from ProRail reported that the punctuality had increased to 91.2%. If you knock on your chest about an achievement that you achieved ten years earlier, you may wonder in arren weary what privatisation of the track has brought us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-4.u9	Ms Meijer discussed the performance of NS and the relationship with ProRail. There is a need to say about this and we are certainly curious about what the Secretary of State is going to say about it later. Would Mrs Meijer also like to reflect on the performance of regional rail service providers? Because if, as she outlines, you are in favour of an NS that continues to do everything as it used to be, then you must also have a view on how those regional carriers are now performing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-4.u10	Of course, I do not dispute the fact that the regional carriers are doing a good job, but I am trying to argue here that we are in favour of having a national track, which operates the timetable in a decent, good way at a reasonable price and with good quality. I do not know exactly what Mr Flierman is trying to provoke me. I have indicated that we think competition on the track is a bad idea, because you are dealing with a utility function. I have also indicated that since privatisation, NS services have declined significantly. Before that, it was pretty good.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-4.u11	I would like to have a separate debate on the quality of NS services. I have used the services of NS around my entire working life (since 1980) and these are not just joyful memories, I'll say, not even from the eighties. But what I was concerned with was that the development of the railways, including the possibility of giving competing suppliers a place in the region, was indeed successful, and that also in parliamentary research on self-determination one of the positive conclusions was that this development, the fact that other companies in the region have taken over the role of NS, was indeed successful. I would like to hear from Mrs Meijer whether she describes everything that has happened recently as inadequate and worthless or whether she thinks that there have been developments here and there that have been good and that we can learn something from them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-4.u12	I can be brief about that. Of course not everything has been woeful and tormented. Absolutely not. I fully agree with Mr Flierman. I am only trying to argue here that we are in favour of a single national railway undertaking to ensure that the timetable is properly implemented.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-4.u13	On the contrary, I believe that the fact that we have now several suppliers on the track has indeed led to a quality improvement and that the return to that single monopoly is not such a good idea at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-4.u14	In my view, I have just indicated that competition is not always good for us and certainly not in utilities. I'm closing my story. Despite the various warnings, the government has simply continued with two separate companies, although the performance of both companies is unsatisfactory. NS is constantly dealing with major disturbances that the government is constantly calling upon without much success and ProRail seems to be a barrel full of sour surprises, on which the Secretary of State has too little vision. Implementation of this directive therefore sets out what we do not want in any case, Mr Flierman: competition on the railways by commercial companies and separation of rail infrastructure and operation rather than a public transport system operated by a utility company. We will not change any further concrete objections here. In the meantime, I think they can be assumed to be known, because they have changed several times. I assume that the Secretary of State understands that we cannot actually take on board the implementation of this European Union directive. But of course we await her response to our input first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-4.u15	Thank you, Mrs Meijer. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-4.u16	I'm suspending the meeting for lunch.
