ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-2.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Security and Justice to the Upper House.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-2.u2	Thank you very much, Madam President. Last Friday, members of the VVD Group took note of the note on the report. They understand that the government wants to see this bill finalised as soon as possible. In recent weeks, the field has also put considerable pressure on all kinds of channels to hammer the bill, as it is called. Although the VVD Group understands this, it still has two pressing questions. That is because this bill has been written for both the creative arts sector and the creative commercial sector, although of course there is no waterproof separation between the two. In the creative arts sector, there is, or may be, an imbalance between two parties: the creator and the operator. In the creative commercial sector, such an unbalanced relationship often does not exist and there is no need to give a particular party instruments that are contrary to the principles of our Civil Code, in particular our contract law. I'll explain. The so-called best-seller clause of Article 25d of the Bill entitles a creator of a work to demand additional fair remuneration at the time when the contractually agreed remuneration, having regard to the mutual performance, is severely disproportionate in relation to the proceeds from the exploitation of the work. That right is granted to the creator even in relation to a third party to whom the opposite party of the maker subsequently transferred the work. As the Secretary of State writes in the note following the report, this provision does not apply to software created by an employee in employment. In such a case, copyrights lie with the employer. Also this provision does not apply to software that is commissioned; the copyrights are in such a case with the client. In other situations, the bestseller clause cannot be declared inapplicable by agreement. And the VVD Group is just about those other situations. Other situations that are conceivable are those of software developers who make software in a one-man business or in a partnership, at least not on assignment. For example, they do this for the purpose of selling it to other parties in a chain or to exploit it themselves. Suppose these software developers have developed a beautiful product that they want to exploit through licensing, but they don't somehow manage to do it themselves. They do not want to cooperate with another party that has better papers for this, but they do want to sell the software to another party, for example. One reason for this may be that they do not want or can bear the associated risks and/or investment. With the best-seller clause of the proposed Article 25d, if ex post exploitation proves successful, they will then be able to rely on additional equitable remuneration. In my view, this remains a difficult one. It is precisely innovation and production development in the ICT sector, such as software, that often takes place through so-called start-ups that usually start and are not ready to create a legal entity. Above the buyers of this software as well as above the third winners then hangs like a sword of Damocles that the maker can afterwards charge an additional fair fee. This is undesirable. It is also contrary to the principle of legal certainty and the principle of the free market in which entrepreneurial risk is involved. The note following the report shows that the proposed Article 25d is of a mandatory legal nature and that an agreement cannot derogate from this provision. The Secretary of State states that in the ICT sector there will be much less serious disproportionateness between the creative performance of a creator and the commercial success of a work. He explained this with the statement that the success of computer programs was rather a matter of non-authorly protected technical functionality and the quality of service and maintenance. The VVD Group does not share that view. It is precisely with technical functionality and the quality of service and maintenance that ICT companies do not distinguish themselves. The quality of service and maintenance is not so unique and not decisive for commercial success. It is a necessary condition for success, but that is not enough. It is precisely the functional specifications that determine the success of a software product and that are copyright protected. All this poses a dilemma for the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-2.u3	Mrs Duthler says that service and technical specifications do not matter to software companies, but I think that is precisely the principle on which open source software is built. You release a source code and everyone can work on it, but your earning model is precisely in providing the service. I do not agree with Mrs Duthler that the provision of this service is not distinctive. On the contrary, we often find that this service is incorrect in the case of blunders with ICT projects. I would like Mrs Duthler to look at that again with a view to open source software.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-2.u4	Open source software often involves the protection of the source code and its functional specifications. With my comment on the technical specifications and the quality of maintenance and service, I would point out that these are necessary conditions, because if the quality is poor, if a system is slow or there is more than 5% downtime, there is no success. However, it is necessary to have an app operated successfully, but that is not enough. For that, those functionalities, which sprout from the creative brain of a maker, are decisive. That is why I make a difference between necessary conditions and sufficient conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-2.u5	I think you'll get very close to the discussion of software patents. So what is a necessary or sufficient condition? Should a handy thing that a software builder has created and that would be good for many more functionalities.I refer as an example to double clicking with the mouse.................................................... should be copyrighted?....................................................................... I understand Mrs Duthler's point, but I think it is more complicated than she is now saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-2.u6	Maybe I could make a little comment on that? I would like to draw attention to the protection of intellectual property rights that we attach to works that we apply in the ICT sector. Software is often copyrighted or released on terms of open source software. You can also apply for a patent or patent for it. There can therefore be different labels that intellectual property rights can be affixed to products from the ICT sector. We are now talking about copyright law and I am talking about the works that are copyrighted, so not about products for which you could apply for a patent or for which you could otherwise apply for intellectual protection. I am only concerned with those works that are copyrighted and often about the functional specifications of software or apps. These apps are developed and often successful. I've been considering bringing in the complexity of the open source software, but in the end I didn't take it into account. The VVD Group is faced with a dilemma. On the one hand, the "hole" in the legislation is too small to stop the legislative proposal. On the other hand, it is not unthinkable that software developers should not create a legal entity, but organise themselves as one-man business or partnership. In such a case, they shall be in a position to apply for additional fair remuneration subsequently if the operator turns out to be a commercial success of their software. The Secretary of State stated in his note following the report that the evaluation promised to the House of Representatives would include the consequences of the entry into force for the software industry. That may offer a hook to complete the discussion of this bill today. I ask the Secretary of State if he is prepared to include the possible impact I have outlined in the evaluation and to amend the law if the evaluation shows that the effect outlined by the VVD Group is effective. This can be derived, for example, from the fact that the arbitrations or litigations have been brought on this particular subject. It may also be that a striking number of software companies no longer organise themselves in a company, but keep the form of a one-man business or a partnership. This can be derived from the membership administration of an interbranch organisation. Is the Secretary of State prepared to do so as a possible solution to the dilemma outlined? Does he want to look at the effects of this bill on the organisation of software companies and see if the effect I have outlined is noticeable?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-2.u7	I see the Secretary of State can answer immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-2.u8	Mr. Chairman. It is nice that we can deal with this bill today. I have heard what dilemma Mrs Duthler has outlined on behalf of the VVD Group. I can imagine that, too. There is the freedom of contract law where you assume that you are all great and strong and can make agreements. In addition, you have to realize that not everyone in society has an equal position. There's some kind of asymmetry. The law should also provide for protection against undesirable effects of that asymmetry when concluding contracts. With the article on which we are concerned, we are trying to respond to the fact that someone is failing because his work appears to lead to a much greater success than was assumed. This success must therefore really be linked to work. We want to overcome this deficit. This may occur in all sectors, but not in every sector, as Mrs Duthler rightly said. We have no categorical exclusion. I am convinced that we have a proposal which can take account of all the nuances. If something turns out to be a greater success afterwards, there is the possibility to file a claim. However, this does not automatically lead to the payment of that claim. Of course, account will be taken of what happens between making the agreement and the success of which one of the people who made the agreement thinks that this was not entirely the intention. If he had known, he wouldn't have made that appointment. To what extent does the operator owe everything to work or have a great deal of effort been made to bring the work to fruition? To what extent has the brilliant idea for the software been decisive? A brilliant app without server space will no longer work for more than fifty users. Then no new users are attracted, and that prevents success. On the other hand, a huge capacity of server space without good software will not lead to anything either. Both conditions are necessary for success, but they are not self-sufficient. It is not unthinkable, as Mrs Duthler says, that start-ups or others working on software development should not engage in legal personality. However, it is not an intended effect of this provision of law. It's an unintentional side effect that can occur. I am less afraid of that because we see that many start-ups are moving towards legal personality for very different reasons. If that does not happen for the reason mentioned and the appeal to the bestseller clause leads to a claim, then it has not yet been said that that claim is being honored. When it occurs, it is an unintentional side effect. It is also undesirable for people to take risks longer than necessary because they do not have legal personality. We will certainly monitor them in the evaluation. I'd be happy to make that commitment. If the evaluation shows that this has a disruptive effect, we will anticipate it and see how we can combat it. I'd be happy to make that commitment. I hope that with my input I have made a nuance as to the extent to which this unimaginable effect will certainly occur.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-2.u9	Mr. Chairman. The VVD Group is pleased that the Secretary of State is ready to make this commitment. I would like to make the following point. The bestseller clause does not automatically lead to the granting of a claim, but the fact that that possibility exists creates legal uncertainty. In business-to-business trade, this can lead to negative effects. Funding can be a problem because banks do not have sufficient certainty about the value of their assets. Also, other parties may not be willing to do business because of that provision. I understand the Secretary of State recognizes the "problem." It still has to be seen how big the problem is. He's willing to include this in the evaluation. When's he planning that evaluation? Should it prove necessary, is he prepared to amend the law on this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-2.u10	The Secretary of State is once again able to respond immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-2.u11	Mr. Chairman. The effect mentioned by Mrs Duthler may arise. People who often invest in a particular industry have standard requirements in advance, including in the field of legal personality. However, a Party may not require that a legal personality be established solely for the purpose of circumventing the provision. That shouldn't be the way to get around it. It will take some time for us to monitor developments properly, especially on this point. We cannot evaluate after a few months. After a few years we can see some results and give an initial mid-term evaluation. It's gonna take at least three years. We will send that mid-term evaluation to both chambers. The two elements requested by both Chambers will be incorporated in their entirety.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-2.u12	Secretary of State says we need at least three years. I understand, because if you don't, you won't be able to measure the effects. But we haven't agreed to a maximum yet. I propose that the deadline be set between three and five years. Well, at least we'll have a smart measuring point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-2.u13	That sounds like a pain in the ass. So that's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-2.u14	This was the end of your second term answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-2.u15	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-2.u16	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-2.u17	The bill is passed without a vote.
