ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u1	We're holding the first term of office today. I would like to welcome the Minister and the Secretary of State, the MPs and the people in the public gallery. For the Minister and the Secretary of State, this is their first budgetary treatment. In the case of directors, the maiden speech rules do not apply. They'll probably find out tomorrow. First of all, Mrs Kooiman of the SP Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. Do we remember the 2012 elections? Those beautiful posters of the VVD were everywhere. It said, "You don't have to cut back on safety." The first thing the VVD did, along with the Labour Party, is to make substantial savings on the entire safety chain. I would like to mention a number of measures: the closure of prisons and police stations, fewer agents, the undressing of courts, the hollowing out of the Public Prosecutor's Office and the NFI, and measures regarding the probation which led to a rapid rise in waiting lists. They were disastrous cuts! In the years that followed, the budget of Security and Justice turned into one big cheese. The SP and also the rest of the opposition warned year in, year out for the huge craters that this cabinet made in the budget. Security and access to justice were at stake. The SP has put forward alternatives, has offered solutions on a platter, but the cabinet only waved them away for convenience. Until this year. At the General Reviews in the Second and First Chambers it became clear that money had to be added, otherwise there was a good chance that the budget, especially in the First Chamber, would be voted off. We made opposition-wide a fist. And then the cabinet woke up: money came in. This is a huge success for all those people who work day in, day out for the safety of the Netherlands. I'm very proud of these warriors. It is thanks to them that some of these craters are finally being filled in the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u3	I share that joy about the extra money, but I still have a question for the SP Group. What would the SP have cut back on? After all, the SP itself wanted to cut back on safety. And that's what she wanted pretty hard. So can Mrs Kooiman take a constructive view? She has already said that the SP has provided alternatives in the past. But that must be alternatives to the billions of dollars that is perhaps a bit excessive..... but at least hundreds of millions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u4	We have put forward alternatives year in, year in to year in to get money instead of saving money. That is also in our alternative budget. I'm getting a little tired of parties like the Labour Party and the VVD, which have actually been bouncing around the streets year after year, standing next to it and then saying to the opposition: look, it's a mess, you clean up the mess. That's not how it works! It's your mess and it's up to you to actually clean up that mess now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u5	Then let's clean up the mess ourselves. There's no junk, by the way. I am getting a little tired of "free money" parties, who say in their election programme that they are also making cuts, but who when it comes to it and parties do it, just say that it is not good and then offer no alternative.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u6	For example, we have said in our election programme: legalise drugs; this will yield 0.5 billion, which can then be invested in the police. That's something the Labour Party doesn't want. I find it very easy. I do year in, year out of all kinds of proposals. I'll do it again this time, with all my love. And then I would like to hear that the Labour Party supports these fine proposals from the SP. However, I am a little tired of hearing from the Labour Party: here is my mess, clean it up. I'll pass! I was actually saying something positive, namely that there are a lot of good points. So let me start with the good news; I am sure the Labour Party will be pleased with that. The increase in registry fees is off the table. That is a huge gain for maintaining access to justice. Their own contribution to detention is also off the table. That is a huge gain for socialisation and keeping society safe. There's gonna be money for the parole. That is an absolute necessity. The NFI, the Dutch CSI, receives additional resources. The question to the Minister remains, of course, how exactly is that money distributed, because it is of course important that this money is spent on those investigations. There is also money for the national roll-out of the Centres Sexual Violence. The SP in the Chamber has been asking for this for a long time, also with the support of the Labour Party and the VVD. That is now finally settled; fair is fair. The SP has fought for this for a long time and is very happy with this. Then where does it go wrong? The Public Prosecutor's Office has repeatedly been given additional priorities: tackling undermining crime, combating cybercrime, child pornography and fraud and reducing high-impact crimes. In addition, the introduction of ZSM was added and performance in the criminal justice chain needed to be improved. The prosecution was also confronted with major incidents and current developments, such as the investigation of the plane crash MH17 and the increasing rise of violent jihadism. So these are many tasks and priorities, but with much less budget. In total, this cabinet and the previous cabinet cut back 143 million on the Public Prosecutor's Office. Following the Hoekstra report following the murder of Els Borst, the question was already asked to what extent the Public Prosecutor's Office suffered from the austerity drive of this cabinet. The Galan report, an external inquiry into whether the government's budget cuts were realistic and justified, also had one conclusion: no, these cuts are not justified. The researchers advised the minister to invest heavily. What does this minister do? He comes up with a lousy 15 million. I'm asking the Minister why he doesn't do what he needs to do. The same applies to the case law. In recent months, something unique has happened: judges revolted, because justice must be preserved in the seven courts. After all, justice must take place close by and quality must be guaranteed. The budget gap for justice is 50 million. The Minister only fills this hole with 20 million. I quote Frits Bakker, the President-in-Office of the Council for Justice: 'The fact that the third state power in our democracy is in such a precarious financial situation is unworthy of a developed democratic rule of law like the Netherlands'. I could not have agreed more with Mr Bakker. I'd like to get a response from the Minister. The prison system is completely forgotten, but before I go into that, I see that Mr Van Oosten has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u7	Yeah, I can see that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u8	Mrs Kooiman refers to justice. I am sure that a number of my colleagues will do the same after her, including myself. That is why I have the following question. Mrs Kooiman also knows that there is a major digitisation of the case law, with the result that 40% of the workforce will eventually leave justice. That also means something for housing. To what extent does Mrs Kooiman think that the starting point in the discussion should be that you should not want to finance with public money the void that exists within justice and which, as I predict, might increase even further?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u9	I'd like to reverse that discussion. I think it is very important for justice to be organized closely. In view of all the austerity that justice is now being given the choice, and even the digitisation, on which the Minister has sent us a letter stating that it will cost even more, you should fill those gaps and ensure that justice can be kept close. Then you really need that 50 million and not the 20 million declared by the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u10	In my view, Mrs Kooiman and I agree on the proximity of access to justice before the judge. I think we share this point of view. However, I would ask for a critical consideration of the SP on the efficient use of money. If you find that there are empty hallways because there is no longer work and the work is filled out differently, do we have to agree that taxpayers' money is not intended for this purpose? The taxpayers' money spent on the case-law should benefit the justice and quality of the case-law. Does Mrs Kooiman share this point of view?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u11	It's dangerous to establish in this place when a corridor is empty. That is up to the courts and if he indicates that justice can stay close and the quality can be maintained if 50 million is allocated to it, my party is prepared to cooperate. I do not yet see this in the VVD; I think I disagree with Mr Van Oosten on this. With destruction plans 1.0 and 2.0, the prison system is also faced with an impossible task. Secretary of State Teeven earlier promised the Chamber that no more prisons would be closed. Can Secretary of State Dijkhoff repeat these words now? Can he explain why he's running out of re-socialization and detention? Projects that allow prisoners to work during detention will be discontinued. I mention Bad Boys Brand as an example. Can the Secretary of State explain this? The largest employer in the Netherlands is scandalously ill off in this cabinet. The police are far from getting the recognition and appreciation they deserve. For example, a new collective agreement must be concluded, but its costs will be covered by the amount that the Minister will pour into the gaping hole that was already there. In fact, in addition to the collective agreement, legal aid comes from the same pot. What exactly is this about? What forms of legal aid are involved and what amounts do they cover? According to my calculations, there's nothing left under the line. Will the Minister respond to this? At this time, when Brussels is locked up, when there is an increased terrorist threat, when attacks have been carried out in Paris and there is a great deal of unrest in society, you should not cut back on security, but invest in it. The Dutch police must do what they are very good at, namely the ears and eyes, are present in the capillaries of society, bet on connection and intervention where necessary. The minister might choose to use extra district agents, but instead he chooses to take 2,000 agents off the streets. In addition, half the police stations are closed. This is outrageous and irresponsible. The police must be in the neighborhoods. I can already predict the Minister's chatting trick. "When I close the desks," he'll say, "they'll be more on the street." I would like to enter into this discussion with the Minister, because that will only increase the scope of the agent's work, which will lead to unsafe situations. But then I'll ask the Minister another question. If he thinks the cops should be on the street, will he promise not to cut mobility? I hear there are also cars being cut off. If the cops are supposed to be on the street, shouldn't they be able to keep their cars? I would also like to receive a response to the fact that with the flow of refugees, the police have been given a huge amount of work, without the necessary resources, which means that other work remains to be done. Then I haven't mentioned the draconian cuts in police education. At this time you just need to train more so that the people on the front line are always sufficiently trained. There is still a lot of work to be done, even in the area of detection. The Minister also admits this, but strangely enough, the concept improvement programme was found to have to cost 200 million first, and now it only costs 30 million. What is it now? How much extra money do we need now? How can it be explained that the ink of the re-examination plan is only just dry and the Minister must say to the Chamber now: sorry, but the new re-examination plan is not complete; there has been a delay and I have to look at the finances as well, because we may not have enough money? How much money is the national police short now? Are the sounds that there's been a setback on ICT of over 100 million? I ask this today because we are discussing the budget today. I would also like to be clear today. It's good to read that the minister wants to work on taking away criminal money. SP's been calling that for years. It's nice to have someone to listen to. However, in the Minister's plans, I do not read exactly how he is going to do this. How is cooperation between government, OM and Tax Administration improved in concrete terms? If you're gonna take criminal money, you're gonna need extra financial detectives. How many extra financial detectives are coming in? The Minister chooses to make 100 million available by means of large settlements. So the money comes from the Treasury Department. Is it not possible that there will be a perverse incentive to settle because money has to come into play? The SP takes stock of the situation. We saw the budget of Security and Justice as a huge cheese cheese. However, the craters that were there are still not filled up, not with the prosecution, not with the justice system and certainly not with the police. Let me put it this way: this still makes it very difficult for us to vote in favour of this budget. Year in, year out, this cabinet has poured dirt on the budget of Security and Justice. Now the border is reached. It's time for the Minister to clean up this mess himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u12	Mr. Chairman. A special welcome to the two gentlemen, the directors in trade union K, because I think this is their first budget. That's kind of special, isn't it? I see they're looking forward to it, at least that's what I'm reading from the big smile I see. Today's budget for security and justice can only be about refugees. I will devote my full input to that. The Minister can breathe quietly. Almost all of my questions are addressed to the Secretary of State. When it comes to refugees, the entire cabinet should actually be here, because the refugee problem, also called the refugee crisis, which we are currently experiencing in Europe and the Netherlands, is absolutely not an internal matter. Many concerns and questions have to do with the domestic situation, but looking at the refugee problem, knowing that there are terrible and bloody conflicts going on in many parts of the world right now, that there are now more than 60 million refugees worldwide, the highest number of refugees ever, that all this is happening at the moment, at the time we are here in the Chamber, you should also consider the causes of the flight problems and of all this misery worldwide. First of all, I should like to say a few words about the issues which I believe are not sufficiently highlighted in the debates we are having over and over again on the issue of refugees. I shall begin with the aggressive policy of intervention. This intervention policy has to do with the simplistic idea that, if there is a conflict that is very serious and difficult to resolve, the Netherlands, but generally the Western world, can contribute to a solution to that conflict if bombs are thrown. Over the last few weeks, a large number of parties, including this Chamber, have repeatedly given the impression that we could reduce the flow of refugees, that we could stop the conflicts that are currently taking place if we were prepared to intervene, for example in Syria, as we have been doing and trying to do in Iraq and Afghanistan for decades and decades. But bombs don't bring peace. It would therefore be a gross understatement of reality and of the complexity of the various conflicts in the Middle East, among others, if you would think that you could resolve those centuries of conflict between warring groups, between people who, while adhere to the same religion, do not agree at all on how that religion should be confessed, by throwing bombs. Fair trade is also an important issue in the refugee problem. We all need to make more work of fair trade. If the parties in the House of Representatives are not prepared to work on fair trade and say time and time again that we should leave it to the market, you should not be surprised that people are seeking their salvation elsewhere. I am thinking, for example, of people from Ghana, where child slaves work in the cocoa industry, or from Bangladesh, the country we know from the collapsed Rana Plaza factory, or from Pakistan, where hundreds of more people were killed when a factory collapsed. Fair trade, then. I would also like to mention development cooperation. On this subject I am not a spokesperson at all, but development cooperation is always brought to the attention of my colleague, Mr Smaling, in the House of Representatives. Once again, they are the same parties, namely the VVD, the CDA and the PVV, which are generally not very keen on investment in this area. I would also like to mention the reception in the region. We'll get a little closer to home. My first question to the Secretary of State concerns the conflict in Syria. What is the situation with regard to consultations with countries such as Iraq, Jordan and Lebanon? In these countries, hundreds of thousands of Syrians have taken refuge in millions of people. To what extent has this Secretary of State for Security and Justice already entered into consultation with his colleagues from such countries? What about the money that Europe has promised to improve reception in the region? It is easy to say that reception must take place in the region, but people sometimes find themselves in appalling circumstances. I was able to see that myself in Lebanon, where children 2 or 3 years old sell water and roses on the streets at night because their parents are not allowed to work. If those parents do, they'll end up in jail. So they have to let their children provide a little income. When people find themselves in such circumstances, it is not surprising that they travel to a country such as the Netherlands. So what is the situation with regard to consultation with the countries that provide reception in the region? What is the Netherlands actually doing at the moment to help a country such as Lebanon, where 1.6 million Syrians have taken refuge? Finally. Ultimately, it will only be possible for you, in your own country and in the EU, to pursue a fair asylum policy. Fortunately, the doors in the Netherlands have so far been open to refugees. As far as the SP is concerned, it should remain that way. That is why we in the European Union must work well together. However, I also have doubts about this cooperation at the moment. There does not seem to be any real cooperation. If you look closely at the situation, it seems that the various European Heads of Government and those responsible in their own country would prefer to shift the problems and not take responsibility. What about the money promised by the EU countries? The Netherlands was one of the leading countries in the process of reaching agreements on the redistribution of refugees from the countries at the external borders of the European Union, dealing with the largest influx of asylum seekers. When is the Netherlands going to redistribute these refugees? Have people been redistributed in the meantime? Have people already come to the Netherlands in that context and if not, why not? Is it true that the Netherlands still has a claim to Hungary in the framework of Dublin at the moment? Last week I received another particularly poignant message about this. It was about a boy who had already gone through a procedure in Hungary, but because of the bar and bad conditions there had traveled to family in the Netherlands. Is it true that such matters are still being referred back to Hungary, although people end up in detention centres under terrible conditions or worse? Is it true that in the meantime a judge should be required to ensure that people aren't evicted a la minute? Then I come to some of the issues that play closer to home, including crisis relief. Over the last few days, the VNG has indicated that the money that municipalities receive through the COA to realise the crisis shelter is too little, which amounts to €40 per person per night, because it costs €100 per night. If you are dealing with the other governments in this way, and if you are putting the burden on the municipalities in this way, and it is only a burden on the municipalities at the moment, then you can of course count on it to be over quickly, even with the municipalities that are very friendly and that have said: we are taking on this heavy task, we are taking care of the refugees and we are going to ensure that we create support for our residents. If you then saddle it with a burden and with a deficit of €60 per refugee per night, then of course that support will be over very quickly. I would like to know from the Secretary of State how he responds to that call from the UNG to add butter to the fish. Then I come to the prognosis for next year. I am shocked by the fact that we still seem to assume that next year's influx will not be too bad. When I look at the conflicts in the region and at the fact that there is no political, sustainable solution ahead, I am afraid if this cabinet assumes that the figures for influx for the coming year will be good. Aren't we gonna get in trouble again? What about the preparation? Why was preparations not made last year, when Secretary of State Teeven here called the alarm clock and I think it was in a television programme that some 60,000 refugees would come to the Netherlands in 2015? I'm also trying to imagine that a little businesslike. Imagine, you have a pretty running business and you see a huge order coming up, or you see another way that your company might be horribly overwhelmed in the coming year, then it's evidence of good justice and, to find it a little closer to the political jargon, of good governance if you're also making preparations? If you know that there will probably be tens of thousands more refugees in the coming year, aren't you going to make good preparations? Well, then, you're gonna go in consultation with the municipalities, aren't you? Then you're already trying to invest in asylum seekers' centers? Why isn't that even done?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u13	I know Mrs Gesthuizen as a realist, but when I hear the last part of her speech, I do have a question. In fact, the television programme in question indicated the following. If the influx of the Eritreans continues this way in the coming time and you abstract it, you will get to some of 60,000. The Secretary of State indicated that he would take action. However, what was Mrs Gesthuizen's reaction at the time, after that broadcast?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u14	The measures advocated by the Secretary of State first of all came down to putting it in the sand, if I may characterize it that way, and that is why we are now faced with this crisis. There is not really a very big crisis, which I always try to explain to people. We can handle these inflow rates. Only, we are very badly prepared and that is because they put the head in the sand, probably because the VVD did not want to give the PVV the wind in the sails. Secondly, the measures envisaged by the VVD and introduced last year were mainly designed to keep people out of the EU and out of the Netherlands as much as possible and to ensure that people simply could not find their way to the European Union. This can also be a solution to the situation, but I have to say that we have to put a very large and very high fence around the European Union and also about the Netherlands. So far that has not happened and I also wonder if it would happen, if it would lead to the desired result.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u15	I get it. I can't get an answer to the question. This is a word grabbing. The answer to the question is that Mrs Gesthuizen, on behalf of the SP, indicated that it was fear, that it was bullshit that was brought forward. Now, however, the SP, through Mrs Gesthuizen, criticises this cabinet that did not act and that it acted too late. Be realistic, I would like to say to Mrs Gesthuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u16	I can only hope that Mr Azmani's vocabulary tastes good. I also note that the cabinet has failed hopelessly when it comes to the preparations for the arrival of tens of thousands of refugees. We're probably not gonna make it to the 60,000 this year. So in that respect it was indeed a bit of panic football. However, if you manage and look forward, which I hope the Secretary of State will do, and you see how overcrowded the refugee camps are or that there are no refugee camps at all, such as in Lebanon where most people just have to build or survive on the streets, then you also know that there is an additional asylum influx to the Netherlands and that you have to make preparations. If you don't, you're running a huge risk, and we're already facing it. My last question is about medical care. Yesterday, Mrs Voortman asked for a debate on this issue and I hope that it can be discussed in detail today and tomorrow. In previous debates, I have already said that I have great respect for the fact that the staff of the Central Body are taking care of asylum seekers and other services and the staff of various municipalities to ensure that everyone has a safe place and a roof and that they eat enough, but I am very concerned about medical care, especially when vulnerable people, such as children, have to move from crisis care to crisis care. We all know that, in terms of medical care, there is a risk in transfer times. You certainly had to move those moments as people from shelter to shelter. So I would ask the Secretary of State to consider this in detail tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u17	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing a budget that has a huge impact on our society: the budget of Security and Justice. It was my own group which, a few weeks ago, in the General Financial Reviews, indicated that our prosperity and freedom can only exist in the context of security. Two weeks ago, after the dramatic events in Paris, it appeared once again that our economy can only grow and that the inhabitants of our country can only develop in a safe environment. That is why, on behalf of my group, I would like to express my thanks to the tens of thousands of people who return to the service of security every day, who are ready every day to take a step forward where others are falling back. The appreciation of the VVD Group for these people is huge.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u18	I wholeheartedly agree with that. Mr Van Oosten began his speech by saying that we are discussing the budget for security and justice today. Can he help me? On September 15th I received a beautiful book, the 2016 state budget for Security and Justice. On 20 November, I received a letter with the draft budget for Security and Justice 2016. I'm just confused for a second. I had a budget on 15 September and now I have a draft budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u19	Mr Pechtold referred to a letter from the cabinet. I propose that he put his question to the cabinet about the designation of the letter. I note that we all know that we are talking today about the budget of Security and Justice for the coming year and the years after.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u20	It was in my agenda and apparently in Mr Van Oosten's, but I hope he read that letter. After we discussed the 2016 state budget for Security and Justice at the General Political Reviews, the feeling finally seemed to arise that we should deal with this cheese. I wonder whether the VVD Group sees the draft budget we have just received as an end in thinking or not. Does he think 'this is it' or 'no, we are slowly on our way, but we must get on, because it is indeed just a draft budget'?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u21	In this budget, because it is, EUR 11.5 billion is spent on security and on the justice chain. The cabinet is now investing an additional quarter of a billion dollars. I dare say that there is a great deal going on in addressing the challenges faced by this budget. These challenges are partly caused by the choice of parties, partly by the choice of groups in the First Chamber by legislation that some parties do not like. Following on from many other groups, with the VVD in the lead, we say: when we have to deliver on safety, we deliver. However, I would add that we do not need to finance inefficiency. That is precisely why I believe that you can rest assured that there is a decent, sound budget, which can produce an excellent discussion today, closing the gaps and addressing the problems. As far as I'm concerned, I would like to congratulate the Cabinet on its work.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u22	As far as I'm concerned, it's not time for compliments. I find it shocking to note that, after five years of the VVD's mess at the V and J Ministry, the VVD spokesperson says that the first financial problem at this ministry comes from the senators, because they simply vote away legislative proposals that affect our rule of law, our sense of justice and access to justice. I hope they will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u23	I don't hear a question in this. Of course, it is not the only challenge or issue we are discussing. I would like to express my surprise; not only do I do that today, but I have done so at previous times. I believe that a proposal that, for example, ensures that prisoners receive a piece of their prison sentence, which they themselves have asked for by breaking the law, is not so strange. Moreover, I think I recall that your group too has been able and willing to share this point of view. In the debate with Mr Pechtold just now, I already expressed my compliments to the Cabinet and, in particular, to the Minister for Security and Justice, who, although relatively new to this post, was faced with a critical Chamber and with current security issues which he had to resolve. With the investment of a quarter of a billion euros that is now taking place, I believe that the Minister has really worked on the signals that many groups in this Chamber gave him a few weeks ago. The VVD also thinks it wise, given the letter Mr Pechtold mentioned earlier, that part of it is chosen to reserve the exact use of the finances for handling the Spring Note. The VVD thinks it is very important not to throw money over the bar but to look at where it can best be spent. That is what I would like to ask my first questions about. Last Monday we received a letter about possible new financial problems with the police. I wonder how I can relate these issues, these problems to the previous letter we received from the cabinet and to the point about budgetary adjustments. Is there a profit warning in there now? Is this profit warning overcome by the proposals I read in the other letter, on ICT, reorganisation costs, etc.? Part of it is now being reserved for asylum, for the IND. Then it's the 60 million that's also in the cabinet letter. Will that also partly land with the police? I would like to hear a further response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u24	Let's talk about the pork cheese in the police department. The collective agreement must be paid for from the additional investments made by the cabinet, but also legal aid. There is indeed a refugee problem. If you count this year and next year, you have to think of about 50 million more. There are still problems with ICT and then there is the Contourennota Modernisation Code of Criminal Procedure. In short, you don't have anything left of that amount. How does the VVD intend to invest in the police, which, as Mr Van Oosten says, is so valuable?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u25	I dispute the argument that there is nothing left of that amount, because in the state where Mrs Kooiman also has a printout, I read "Other (reservation) a. Legal aid / cie. Wolfsen b. National Police" 138, 124, 119 et cetera. These are very substantial amounts, in millions of euros. So let me not say now that there is no investment, because that is really wrong. Well, it's interesting whether this covers everything. Or are there any other issues in the police sphere that we should know, so that we can prepare ourselves for them before the Spring paper and determine our position on them? I ask these questions together with Mrs Kooiman to the Minister. I need more clarity on this and I ask the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u26	If you had to count on the legal aid and all those counselors, you'd get around 420 fte extra to the police. You actually have nothing left under the line, because the collective agreement must also be removed, just like the contour note. Then why does the VVD choose to cut 2,000 fte away from the police, in times when we need to invest in security and be more in the neighbourhoods?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u27	I find it difficult for Mrs Kooiman's question to start with a statement, with a fact which I wonder whether that is really a fact. It raises her question by assuming that the Salduz directives, which were the result of European decision-making, are that a lawyer should be present at the start of the hearing, because that is what I think she is talking about, and that would lead to 420 additional agents. I think that we should have that discussion with each other. I find it a little complicated to talk about that now as a fact. You have also heard me say that we deliver at the time of delivery. That's what the VVD does and the VVD has always done. I also note that the cabinet is making a substantial investment and reservation in relation to the police. So I would like to know from the Minister to what extent this covers the issues we face: ICT, reorganisation and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u28	I really like the fact that the VVD is trying to clean up the cabinet's mistakes. Let us be clear: I refer to the ICT problems in the police, the closure of police stations and the outline note which is getting out of hand. I get it. Now take the example of more neighborhood agents and the lake in the neighborhood. Does the VVD agree that we should not take 2,000 fte away from the police, but should add FTEs?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u29	Last week there was extensive discussion about the desirability and the need for district agents to be active in the district. That's what the VVD thinks. Let there be no misunderstanding about that. Neighborhood agents play a very important role as eyes and ears in the neighborhood. What you're doing now is relating to the operation of the police. I think that is far too easy and I think it is far too soon. I note that this minister is taking his responsibility and that he's really making a big pot of money for the police. We're going to talk about that. On behalf of my group, I would like to know exactly whether this covers everything or whether I should expect more. I want to know about the Minister. The VVD also wants to deliver where it needs to, but I do think that you need to look critically at how you do that and where it lands, in order to prevent us from financing inefficiency.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u30	That beautiful pot of the VVD is of course great, but it's mainly about what you do with the money. In this 250 million there is an unknown amount for the police cao, but it runs in the tens of millions. My question to Mr Van Oosten is: should that money not be taken out of the 250 million? That amount is there to strengthen the chain and to make the police better, but not to enable any collective bargaining.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u31	I think there are good conversations now between the police unions and the cabinet. I think it's important to have those conversations now where they're being held. To your specific question whether I think this should be part of the spending of the money on the police that is now being proposed by the cabinet, my answer is: if it can, it can, but if it can not, it cannot. Like you, I wonder exactly what the cabinet is aiming at with the reservation for the National Police. What exactly is in that decision? That's what I want to know, so I can determine a position on that. I would also like to know whether there are any additional problems in terms of finance. It's relevant to the Chamber to know that. I also note that there is a considerable investment going on, and that is worth a compliment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u32	It's all gonna stay open anyway. I understand very well that the negotiations are secret and that we cannot say anything about them yet. The fact is that, if this figure is included in the 250 million, we are in danger of having to deduct 60, 70 or 80 million from it, which amount goes to the police. Then there is little money left to relieve the workload with the police and to solve all the problems with the police, which we all know.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u33	Mr Oskam is talking about a situation like that, which I cannot overlook as much as Mr Oskam can. That is why I am asking the Minister about this. I'm curious about the answers to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u34	It's the end of November. Then the time of questioning is over, isn't it? Surely the Chamber cannot be satisfied with a budget of which we cannot assess a part? The Minister has been negotiating with the police unions for over a year now. I do not want to interfere as a Member of Parliament, but there is now a budget that has a black hole, namely the outcome of the negotiations. What's left can go to the quality of the police. That means you can't make a plan because you don't know what's left. If these negotiations continue, we will still not know in the new year how to improve the quality of the police in the Netherlands. How does the VVD feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u35	It may well be that the collective bargaining, which Mr Pechtold does not know as much as I do, also touch on the quality of the police. At least that wouldn't surprise me. So it's not that it excludes one from the other. However, I am going to repeat it, Mr President, and I am sorry that a substantial investment in the police is being held up. I think it would be wise not to add a very direct spending to that now. At the time of the Spring paper, we have more information on the progress of the negotiations and on the issues with which the police are stuck: in the areas of ICT, reorganisation and so on. Then you can have a final and full discussion about it. It's important that you start with finance, so there's money. That's now created.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u36	I agree with Mr Van Oosten. But this minister is now under the authority of the Minister of Finance. It is not for nothing that this draft budget has been signed by two ministers, including the Minister of Finance. It's a bit in The Hague language: "the financial control of the organization can be secured." That's what the Minister of Finance writes. Mr Van Oosten wants to postpone this until the Spring Paper, which means that this is an open end. If the spring note shows that the police collective agreement is to the detriment of quality and if it turns out that there is not enough money left, we have a claim with the curator, the Minister of Finance. This minister has to come to him every week with his homework to ask for decent money for the National Police. So Mr Van Oosten agrees with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u37	I had already indicated that the VVD would deliver if it had to be delivered for safety reasons. We always do. At the same time, we also say that you have to look critically at the way you spend the money and where it lands. I do not want to finance inefficiency just to give an example. I also want it to touch on quality, to give you another example. There is no doubt that we are going to have discussions about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u38	I think that after Mr Van Oosten's start, in which he complimented all those people in the field, he did that, as far as I am concerned, on behalf of the whole Chamber, he cannot now say to the policeman in the street: you know what, your boss already has negotiations about your collective agreement; whether we are going to deliver quality depends a little on whether you are efficient. I think that's a slap in the face of the ordinary police officer. If the VVD, with its screaming posters on security, also wants to translate its words into action, Mr Van Oosten should say here: indeed, Pechtold, in the spring we will look closely at the budget line police. It can't be that we've been staring into a black hole.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u39	Of course we're looking at the budget line police. We'll do that today, and we'll do that in a couple of months. However, I would like to say that I am not tempted to sit at the table of the negotiations between the cabinet and the police unions through this question put by Mr Pechtold. Mr Pechtold is trying to do that. I do not think that is right about Mr Pechtold's position now. Now leave that with the cabinet and have faith in it! I have that confidence. Let us await the outcome of that. I've heard good signals about that. I also note that the Cabinet reserves money. You can't have a better starting position.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u40	Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u41	I will allow this interruption, but I would also like to give Mr Van Oosten the opportunity to continue his speech. He has spoken for two minutes so far, but he has been interrupted for almost twenty minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u42	I understand that very well, but I would like to join Mr Pechtold. I support him in that. We don't have to talk about the police unions anymore. However, the police are an important part of the criminal justice chain. The VVD is the batch of packing. Money's being made available to the police, but we have no idea where that's going. Mr Van Oosten also has questions. My question to Mr Van Oosten of the security party is where the money should go with the police. What's his point of view on the police? What are the primary tasks of the police, and there are many of them, to be strengthened with this budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u43	What's my view on the police? Several debates have also been held in this Chamber, in which we have stated that in the past. You need to ensure a good, efficient flow between the police and the state's attorney's office. This means that you have to invest in district agents, that you have to invest in the formation of the National Police and that you also have to dare to continue, because the National Police makes you instead of 26 corps become one solid and stable corps that can further specialise and so on. That's our view of the police. There's a lot of money going to the police, and if more is needed, then more money has to go to the police. Now that it is established that the cabinet reserves money for this, we can also leave the work and all the negotiations with the police unions in the Cabinet. That is very important. Let's wait and see. I have questions, too. I just said that. By which way should that be laid down? Is that money gonna land at the I.T.U.? Is it gonna land at the remodel? Let the cabinet answer that first!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u44	I understand very well and I also understand Mr Van Oosten's tactics, but I agree with Mr Pechtold that now is the time when we need to know what we need for the police and what we are going to spend it on. Now is the time to do business.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u45	Isn't that what we're doing? Therefore there is a letter from the cabinet about a reservation for a) the legal aid bill and b) the National Police. Let me just mention the sum of 138 million. Sounds like a lot of business to me. In order to achieve this in the end, we need the support of the CDA. Let me add that to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u46	A question on the same subject. Where does the extra money for the police go and how do we split it? In dealing with previous budgets, I and my colleagues have made a point of cutting the police at stations. Now we see that surveillance and surveillance have to come back. Before people get into the TGV, they have to go through gates. Does the VVD regret the police cuts at train stations? Is the railroad police coming back now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u47	As far as TGV is concerned, I understand from this morning's newspaper that the French Minister for Transport is making a request to the cabinet. It is perhaps interesting to put the question to the Minister of Security and Justice in this way. When that discussion took place, some time ago here in the Chamber, the position of the VVD was still unchanged, as far as I am concerned, if you have to, if you have to take security measures, whether in the form of a railway police or otherwise, that you should not back down, but that you should just do so. But we also just have to tell the honest story. Mrs Van Tongeren must do the same on behalf of her Green Left group: 100% security cannot be guaranteed. It can't be, and it never will be. We must constantly dare to say that. To anyone who pleads for a railroad police, I say, "If I have to, I have to." If there are good indications, it must, but also tell the honest story, otherwise you create expectations that you cannot live up to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u48	That answer is on the same subject, but it is not an answer to my question. My question was another one. The road-saving railroad police did a useful job. The NS and the travelers said: don't cut them off. At first, it was promised that the real estate would be held for a while to see if cutting off the railway police was useful. I wonder if the real estate is still there, because then the railroad police can come back. My question was whether the VVD regrets cutting off the railroad police. Now you get yojo policy: first it's taken away and now it's coming back. Has any thought been given to what these new amounts are being spent on? Is that where the railroad police are again?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u49	I think it's an internal Binnenhof discussion whether you should call something railway police or regular police. If there's a need for police at the station, that's where the police come in. It's very simple. Those cops are gonna be under the National Police. It used to be under the railroad police tag. Don't you start pretending I don't want railroad police! I want cops where they need to be, very simple. I believe that we are in complete agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u50	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u51	Before I give you the floor, Mr Bontes, I must make an announcement. The Chamber today receives a delegation from the Hungarian Parliament. The members of this delegation took part in the chair. Welcome! The delegation is headed by the President of Parliament, Mr Laszlo Köver. I hope I pronounce it right. I would like to welcome them on behalf of the Chamber. Welcome, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Bontes, you wanted to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u52	The detectives, the BOLO really needs to be reinforced. This is also what we read in the letter from the Minister, the outline note. Does Mr Van Oosten have sufficient confidence that this will actually work?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u53	Yes. I would also point out that, in terms of the inefficient outflow, the limitation period and the connection between the police and the Ministry of Public Affairs, it can be done much better. Call it performance in the criminal justice chain. So I have faith in it, but it has to be better.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u54	Mr Van Oosten is confident, but can I remind him that there will be a detailed plan only in May 2016? Then the government goes to see if there's any money to go with it. Then there's some kind of counterexpertise. Then there must be recruitment, selection and training. Honor the first detective meets the requirements and can help strengthen the search it is about 2019. Can Mr Van Oosten respond to that? He exudes all the confidence but this calculation shows that we can only expect some reinforcement in 2019.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u55	I don't know if your math is correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u56	It's in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u57	As regards investing in the search for security in this country, the VVD supplies. That is what the VVD is talking about. On the subject of business management and the speed with which the detectives to whom Mr Bontes refers, whom I also like to see, are present on the spot to do the work, I am relying on the Minister's answers. I want those detectives as soon as possible, but I do need good detectives. That should be organised in such a way that those detectives get there soon and that's funded.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u58	Mr Van Oosten is holding a hooray story, in the sense of it is fantastic and thank you Minister, while the first reinforcement of the police will only come in 2019. So putting on a smaller pair of pants would be better, Mr Van Oosten.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u59	A hooray story? We invest EUR 11.5 billion in security in this country. The cabinet pays an extra quarter of a billion dollars for this. I think that is worth a compliment, but that does not make me look at this budget without criticism. In fact, I would have liked to raise a lot of points. I am going to do that now, because I have many questions in that regard. First of all, management/efficiency; that's how I sum it up. EUR 11.5 billion is earmarked for this purpose. It is important, however, that this is spent in a good way and that the money lands where it has to land. Good and promising steps have been taken to this end. I saw that when I recently paid a work visit to the CJIB in Leeuwarden. Under the responsibility of the Secretary of State, the EC programme works there. That program tracks exactly whether someone has been convicted but is still loose, whether agencies need to become active to catch that guy by the collar and put him in jail, etc. That is very efficient and efficient. However, I wonder if it can do even better. I read in the Court's reports that it is likely to be a repeat of moves. I have been able to participate in this Chamber for a few years now and I note that for the third time in a row the Court of Auditors points to inefficient outflow. The Court states that the clarification rates should and can be increased. Perhaps this appeals to Mr Bontes, and I share that with him. Addressing, addressing; working processes between partners in the criminal justice chain are not sufficiently compatible. Performance in the criminal justice chain is therefore still insufficient. These are quite critical remarks on the part of the Court of Auditors. As crime rates are falling, it must be possible to solve and deal with crime better. Moreover, this can lead to legal inequality, limitation period, waste of taxpayers' money and the withdrawal of the willingness to report. That's something I'm really worried about. That would be the axe at the root. So my question is: how will the Minister deal with this? What actions are being taken? Can we agree on how we can address the Minister in concrete terms so that we do not receive another report from the Court of Auditors next year which will re-establish the same and I must repeat the call. I would like to see a report by the Court of Auditors next year which states that the Minister has done his work and that good results are being achieved. That's incredibly important to me. I have just come to speak about the famous letter to which Mr Pechtold referred a number of times. There is also something written about what I call a profit in the sphere of business management. Does that relate to this now? How am I supposed to see that? I think it is very important and sensible that the Minister should choose to regulate and organise structural funding flows from the Ministry of Finance in the case of settlements. With this you can finance structural expenditure from the Ministry. These structural funding flows replace the occasional revenues that are now brought in by settlements. I'll mention the settlement with SBM Offshore. Would it not be wise in the long term to do the same with the fines and fines? We are talking about a much larger amount and an amount that may be slightly less fluctuating. However, I find it sometimes difficult, as a Member of Parliament, to discuss questions such as the justice of the fine with the Minister or the Secretary of State. To what extent is there still a sufficient relationship between the fine on the one hand and road safety or the prevention of victims on the other? Every time I get the impression that these fines are also useful and necessary for the V and J budget. In fact, I think that is the wrong starting point. I think it would be very helpful if we had the proceeds of the fines, which are natural and which are substantial, landed at the Ministry of Finance. That's where the money is put. We should then have the substantive discussion at V and J. I understand we can't organize that from today to tomorrow. However, I see now that this step can be taken by means of settlements. That is why I challenge the Minister to do the same with the fines. I challenge him to start with that, with his colleague in the finance department. I'm asking him to report to the Chamber on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u60	I like the fact that Mr Van Oosten is challenging the Minister. What does he think, however? Does he agree that we're going to use the proceeds from those settlements for V and J?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u61	Yeah, but we're doing that now. However, I am trying to say that those proceeds from those settlements are now collected by the Ministry of V and J and then used to cover expenses incurred by the Ministry of V and J. One problem, however, is that these settlements are occasional. You don't know exactly how much money will come in a year. However, it must cover structural expenditure. I would find it much better if the proceeds were to land at the Ministry of Finance, and then the Ministry of Finance and J would receive a payment from the Ministry of Finance which would allow V and J to cover the expenses. So that's how it's going to be with the settlements now. I call for this also to be done with the fines, for the sake of a stable budget and for the sake of the possibility of a divorce; where are you discussing with whom? In fact, therefore, I would like to ask Mr Oskam whether he agrees with me on this point. That would perhaps strengthen the position of the Minister of V and J if he were to discuss this with his colleague in the Treasury and report back to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u62	The answers must also be brief, Mr van Oosten.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u63	Mr Van Oosten is turning the world upside down. Mr Van der Staaij and I launched this idea two years ago. Then the VVD was against it. Now it's possible. I'm very happy about that. I will certainly support the proposal. I therefore welcome the fact that the Minister is showing courage with the 100 million in his own budget. I agree when it is said that this needs to be done on a structural basis. I don't care how it happens. It can be done through a settlement, but also through a fixed fairy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u64	It is not intended that a further question should be asked after an interruption. Mr Van Oosten cannot challenge Mr Oskam by asking him a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u65	I know that the VVD is enthusiastic about the way it is thought in business, so it is also about setting targets. Is there not a great danger here that a target will be set for settlements because the budget will have to come to an end? This could lead to that in certain cases it can no longer be said: persecution in this case is far more fair than settlement, so we opt for persecution despite the fact that persecution costs the State money and perhaps much less will result in a settlement. GroenLinks is afraid that the financial consequence will become a major argument in answering the question of whether we are going to prosecute or settle. Does the VVD share that fear?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u66	No, I'm not afraid of that, because I have faith in, for example, the majestic considerations of the Public Prosecutor's Office. In addition, Mrs Van Tongeren's position would be to ask, for example, for the revenue from fines to be landed at the Ministry of Finance, while you are having the substantive discussions with the Minister for Security and Justice. This discussion, for example, concerns the question of how fair the level of the fine is and so on. That's how I'd like to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u67	I do not remember exactly what we were like in the proposal just cited by our colleague, but I think it is very sensible for all departments at EZ that we have also advocated it if income does not end up with the minister, but with finance. I would support that. If they are large fish, they are suitable, but in the smaller cases there is persecution. You see that a lot. Doesn't the VVD share the fear that there is more often a search for a settlement if there is a lot of money to catch, so that there are no gaps in the budget, whether it's with Finance or with Security and Justice?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u68	No, because I have every confidence, once again, in the majestic consideration of the state's attorney's office in that respect. This brings me to the next point, namely the undermining, the tackling of organised crime and the blurring between the underworld and the upper world, so to speak. I am incredibly pleased with the choice of the cabinet, once again included in the budget letter, to bet much more on taking away often the only motive of the criminal, namely money, so taking away criminal profits. Let us be clear, there is no criminal who acts crime out of idealism. They may be with a light, but it will be incredibly few. They do want to walk with flashy watches or ride with expensive cars, without a decent and honest source of income. As far as I am concerned, we really need to strengthen that patronism approach, so we need to take away their only motivation. I am also thinking of shops or catering facilities in A-locations. Take Amsterdam, where the neighborhood agent............................................................................................................................................................. That raises questions. How's that? How is that possible? This can lead to very serious consequences, namely the infiltration of the underworld into the upper world. This year mayors from Brabant approached us because they were worried about their own city council, about being able to address people. Tilburg was in the paper. A particular study would show that local drug trafficking in that city alone has a turnover of 800 million euros. That is equal to the budget for the city itself! Those are really absurd amounts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u69	Were you done with this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u70	No, but I held back because I saw Mr Van der Staaij standing there. But if you want me to carry on, I will.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u71	It depends. When you're almost done, I suggest you finish this point first. I shall then give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u72	That's fine. I think it is important for me to make a brief contribution, otherwise Mr Van der Staaij will have to wait for so long and I also see that you will be pleased, Mr President-in-Office, that I can trust that there will be a genuinely integrated approach, but I have doubts about that. When I take the budget letter, I see that the proceeds have to be realized, in particular, by the FIOD and the Public Prosecutor's Office. In my opinion, sometimes the Tax Office or a municipal service can play a role in the taking away of criminal assets. The tax route can sometimes take place much faster. I refer to a report by the mayors of the region, which I believe has reached us all. I would like to see the Minister in this project choose to follow the path taken by the task force in Brabant. It simply involves all services in the approach and assessment of how you can achieve the most return by taking away criminal assets, rather than holding on to the targets of the FIOD or the Public Prosecutor's Office. After all, you run the risk that the best possible way to take money will not be taken, because according to the targets the Public Prosecutor or the FIOD must bring it in. I really wouldn't want that. Suppose this is because there is an issue with Finance about which budget structure it is not possible, for example, to include revenue from the Tax Administration. I would ask the Minister to consult with his colleague in the Treasury and to report to the Chamber on this. Then I would like to have a debate on this, because I do not think that is the right commitment. I also think it's ignoring the fact that you have to catch the criminal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u73	Mr Van Oosten expects a great deal from the Public Prosecutor's Office. Does he recognize the image that we hear from the practice that this is very much intertwined with the strong targets and the ever-increasing ambitions for the Public Prosecutor's Office?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u74	That is why I am happy with the fact that some of the Minister's choice is to step up the amounts that go to the Public Prosecutor's Office. For example, they will be countries in an ICT project, in such a way that information and so on will come out better. But that also applies to what I just said about the police. At the moment when there would still be problems and safety would suffer, the VVD delivers. At the moment when I have to establish that I am going to give a slightly longer explanation of this answer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that there is inefficiency, I say: no, I do not have to put up a bag of money for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u75	We do see in the recommendations of the Hoekstra Committee that more is expected from the Public Prosecutor's Office regarding confused persons. In order to tackle jihadism, extra money has come, but more and more is expected to take active and decisive action against jihadism. We are still getting signals from the De Galan II report that there is quite a gap between what you really can do if you want to put a tooth on those points and what money is now available.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u76	In part, I agree with Mr Van der Staaij. That is why I want to know, in my contribution to the Minister, exactly what we need when it comes to cyber and terrorism. The only point I want to make is that I want to know where it's going to land. I think you should be able to have a discussion about that. But if it "mot," then "mot" it; very simple. The same goes for the D.A.'s office. By the way, I refer to a report we recently received on the famous budget letter. That validation report states that the challenge, the austerity that now lies with the Public Prosecutor's Office, can be borne on its own. This is only unrelated to the new challenge which Mr Van der Staaij rightly raises and which I am also concerned about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u77	We would like to hear the reaction of the government. Mr Van Oosten now refers to the validation of the De Galan II report. It's getting a little technical, but I noticed that it's being said that it can be solved by using the surplus you're expecting in 2020 for the deficits in 2016 and 2018. Is that a desirable method? If it's all this hanging and strangling, shouldn't you be a little more generous in the years before?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u78	If that is necessary for the sake of safety, then so be it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u79	I am very pleased that Mr Van Oosten says that better cooperation between the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Tax Administration and, for example, the mayors is needed in the taking of criminal money. I think there is indeed a world to be won. I only miss the story of the financial detectives. Just if you want to serve the search side, you're gonna have to put in more financial detectives. Does Mr Van Oosten agree with the SP?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u80	Yeah, I agree with the SP. So you have to go there, too. That is why my next point would have been: I am right; I would have been right in saying that I would have liked it very much if the Minister had dared to think about creating an undermining fund. That's also a call from the mayors. That fund could be used to fund, among other things, those kind of financial detectives. Apart from that, you must dare to invest and invest in it to tackle the undermining crime. Moreover, I am convinced that the Minister will do the same, but let us await his response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u81	I'm very happy to hear that, too. This is what Mr Roemer said in the General Reviews. Several opposition parties did so by the way. We've argued for more financial detectives here before. They'll eventually earn themselves back. Does the VVD agree with the SP that there should be a large number of financial detectives and that we should ask the cabinet for those detectives as well as how many that will eventually become?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u82	If that's what it takes, it has to be. I fully agree with the SP. That is why I am making such a firm point and I am so glad that the cabinet is paying out money to intensify that take-away. I'm assuming that this money gets the right spending and it's gonna make a hell of a ratio, one in four. Then you're gonna need good detectives and maybe even more detectives. That's easy enough. I've already said something about the undermining fund. I would like to hear more from the Minister why he does not now choose to do so, which would be against doing so and what would be necessary, for example, to persuade the Secretary of State for Finance to do so. On the subject of cyber, I will be brief. We had a big cyber conference in the Netherlands last year. I constantly read reports about this in the media. Two weeks ago, there was a big article in the Financial Daily of a director of a major security organization. He is extremely concerned and says that the mop is with the tap open, that the chance of getting caught is far too small and that the government is not rushing enough with cyber, digitization and IT in relation to crime and threats. I would like to receive a response from the cabinet. Does the Cabinet share this analysis? What concrete steps have been taken in response to this cyber conference? Have sufficient resources been released? The budget letter is not about that. In other words, is our budget sufficiently equipped to meet the challenges of cybercrime? If not, what is needed? I'd like more information on that. I will also be brief on terrorism, because last week we had a wide-ranging debate on the dramas in Paris. So I would just like to say that the VVD shares the Prime Minister's line. All involved partners in the safety chain can do with the current resources and people what is needed to minimise the risk of an attack in the Netherlands, but continue to monitor it strictly. As soon as that's necessary, we're gonna need some money. I have just had a brief debate with Mrs Kooiman on justice. I hope that we can come a long way in each other's direction at that point; perhaps we will even find the same thing. In the Minister's budget letter, I read that EUR 20 million to EUR 25 million per year will be added for justice. This should, in particular, be included in the KEI project, the digitalisation project for which the case law stands. We have had a debate on the KEI project before. I have expressed my concerns about the manageability of the project. Then the Minister indicated that he would set up a solid project management on this and that all this would work out very well. Of course it is a challenge and of course it is new, because until recently, the courts communicated with the fax, so to speak, but this would work. Why do we suddenly add 20 million to 25 million more? Would the Minister like to explain that further? Are we going to get enough of this? I come to the courts and to the debate on the future of justice. The point is that I really want to prevent us from financing empty positions with taxpayers' money, with public money. I am not a penny fetishist or anything like that, but I really think that the money for justice should land where it should land, namely the judge seeking justice and the judge's quality, because that is what this is about. So I'd like to know from the Minister how he's going to steer this. The seven mayors of the seven courts affected by the Council's plans for justice have sent a letter to the Court. They call for greater flexibility in the rental of state real estate. The policy or rules on state real estate would not allow, for example, municipal services to rent space. This restricts the possibilities of municipalities in the search for alternative solutions. How does the Minister view this? What can he do in this respect for these municipalities or perhaps for other municipalities that might be affected in the future? We are only talking here with the Minister of Security and Justice and, of course, not with the Minister of State, but I hope that the Minister can take with him how the Minister of State looks at this and what role he could play in it. How does the Minister assess the three scenarios put forward by the Council for Justice last week? What possibilities does the Minister see, if anything were to change in relation to the business package, to really ensure that cases with a particular local impact can be dealt with at any time by the local court?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u83	I was encouraged by Mr Van Oosten's comment in response to Mrs Kooiman's speech, namely that the vacancy is caused mainly by KEI. 40% of the administrative staff gets out. However, the citizen does not notice that. If KEI works, it's fine. What my group is more concerned about is the multi-annual plan for the justice system which moves people from Almelo to Zwolle and from Maastricht to Roermond. We received an oral petition yesterday; I would like to mention this because I have not seen this before. In this petition, the Dutch Association for Justice asks: give us time, take a good look at it and evaluate it. The leader of the Labour Party has also said this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u84	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u85	What does the VVD think of the NVvR's request for a moment's notice? That costs 30 million this year, but we will deal with this carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u86	I think there's already a pass in the plans. The court doesn't suddenly change tomorrow. The only thing that needs to be done now is for us to dare to think about how, from the point of view of business management, we manage to deal with changes in justice. The declining workforce is indeed part of this. I think it's wise to think about that. What I want most of all is for the Minister to take control of this dossier. He should talk to the board and local government to resolve this issue. Then you need an integral pair of glasses and then you also need the glasses of the Minister for Housing and National Service.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u87	If this plan by Mr Van Oosten and I cost 30 million more this year, is that a problem for the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u88	What does Mr. Oskam mean by 30 million?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u89	On Friday, the Minister wrote that he would pay 20 million for this, but the case law states that keeping the courts open for the time being costs 50 million. Is Mr Van Oosten prepared, even if it costs 30 million more, to make even more room for the proposal that he is actually proposing?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u90	I wonder if it costs 30 million. I have two starting points. I already mentioned access to justice at the nearest distance for most of the cases. It can be seen from the Council's case-law scenarios that 95% of cases are dealt with locally. These are divorce cases, neighborly disputes, etcetera that the man on the street has to deal with. That is very important, but it is also very important that you do not close your eyes to the existing and the increasing vacancy in the future. We should not finance it with taxpayers' money. You have to organize this in such a way that municipalities have the opportunity to discuss this with each other. That's why you need those integral glasses. The Minister for Housing and Rijksdienst must also join. I would like the Minister of Security and Justice to take control of that file and solve it. It is not so much a matter of money.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u91	Mr Van Oosten speaks sensible words, but he confines himself to seven courts where there may be square meters. However, there are 32 court locations. Amsterdam can also have square meters; this is not reserved for the region. Is he willing to take a broader look at where extra hire can be found?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u92	Sure, 'cause it's my job to avoid emptiness. The Council of Justice has chosen on the basis of the decision-making process in the House of Representatives, because we have told the Council that it must cut back. Moreover, at some point we have agreed to the decision that the Council will have a position to decide independently on the case law on the basis of the law. Let us not forget that framework. Now the Council comes up with something and I repeat my point of departure that we do not finance empty spaces, that is not necessary. There is a need for proper consultation with local government, and I want the Minister to direct this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u93	During the General Reviews, the Slob/Samsom motion was adopted in which the question is indeed asked to enter into conversation to see if you can initially come to a postponement. Is this also the line of the VVD: talk to the municipalities, see if you can at least keep those seven courts and whether you can make a delay? Does the VVD support that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u94	Not if that leads to the financing of vacant positions, but to the proper movement of justice for the seeker. Moreover, I do not have the impression that this has ever been in danger at any time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u95	A number of courts were threatening to fall. Now, fortunately, alternatives are being discussed with the municipalities so that these courts can be kept in place and function fully. Does that have the support of the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u96	I cannot give an answer to a question that is really being initiated wrongly, because there are no courts going to fall over. That's what I'm really resisting. That the locals cause a lot of turmoil, I understand very well. I come from local politics myself. I even worked at law school for a while. I get it all very well, but there's really no question of courts falling over.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u97	Then let me specify: courts will be stripped. So people have to move on before they go to court. Is preventing this also the use of the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u98	According to one of the scenarios set out by the Council for the case-law, this may indeed be the case for detainees in multiple complex criminal cases. They should then, for example, continue to travel. However, this is not the case in family matters. I do not want us to spend expensive taxpayers' money that should be spent on the judge, on keeping empty buildings open. I agree with Mr Recourt. Then it's those seven courts? In my opinion, not necessarily. We have a minister of security and justice, and that is the only actor we can talk to. Minister for Security and Justice, please take the lead and involve your colleague, the Minister for State Service, who looks at other state services with full glasses.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u99	If the spokesperson of the largest party here says to his own minister 'take control and ensure that the courts remain open', I think that is an important ruling. Then it is also: a man a man, a word a word. Then the deal today is that no courts fall down. However, the sum shows us that the 50 million requested and the 20 million offered are the stones, but that the quality part is missing. I don't want empty courts, but I don't want courts whose quality is lagging behind. How does Mr Van Oosten view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u100	I would just like to say a word to prevent words I have spoken from being put in the wrong light. Because I didn't say that nothing should change in the courts. In fact, I think it is inevitable that something will happen, as a result of digitisation, as a result of a new world of justice that is about to emerge. That is why it is so sensible that the Chamber should not close its eyes to this and deal with it responsibly. If you find that part of the board and local authorities do not come out of it, sometimes also because of the rules of the National Real Estate Company, take control of it, do something about it: that is what I mean by my request to the Minister of V and J to take control. I think that's a perfectly normal call. Then you can also take care of it, and that is an answer to Mr Pechtold's question that the money we spend on justice finally lands where it has to land, namely the quality of justice, for the benefit of the seeker. That's all I care about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u101	I would like to say to the death-killer of this spokesperson of the VVD that we are currently financing empty positions. I want to go to a realistic plan. The fact that the Minister is only now getting the call "go and direct" is rather late. I believe that the starting point should be that the law should be sought at regional level and that law should be seen at regional level. That is incredibly important, in addition to all the changes that are being made. The final picture must be that there is a good spread across the country and that can improve quality in particular. I therefore ask Mr van Oosten whether he agrees with me on this. He says, "Minister, direct." Does this mean that he is seeking to keep as many places open as possible to increase the sense of justice and that he is striving to make available a greater amount than 20 million so that quality can also be guaranteed?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u102	My answer to the question is that closing the courts is not the issue. Nor is it the case that the seeker would not be able to obtain his or her right in the courts. However, it is possible that a number of parts of the law will be placed in place, and that is what Mr Pechtold means, in my opinion, also in another part of the region, in a court of law further down the road. This may be necessary in order to finance it in the best way, on the basis of cost-efficiency and all that kind of argument, and to prevent all of you from being empty. That's what's causing all this fuss. So you have to handle that wisely. So you should also allow municipalities to perhaps house other services in them, you name it. Then you need not only the Minister of V and J, but also the Minister of State. That's what I mean by "grabbing direction."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u103	I have one question for Mr Van Oosten. What does he really want with the courts? Does he want justice close, or does he want to keep the quality? For the 20 million this cabinet now reserves, it can't be both. Choose!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u104	I want access to the judge, close range. We can have a perpetual discussion about what exactly is near distance. Is ten minutes by train too far? Just give me the answer. I want access to the court at close range. In addition, I want the money we spend on justice to land where it has to land. It is a great deal of money for the quality of justice, for the benefit of the seeker. That's all I care about. I find out from what I hear and read that there is 100,000 m empty. In addition, we all know, on the basis of decisions we have taken ourselves, that the workforce is going to decrease by 40%, which inevitably also affects the buildings. Then I say: you have to do something with that and we have to do something with that now. You can't wait until a few years from now when that staff has actually left.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u105	No one in the Chamber wants to finance empty positions with community money. You can think about that very creatively, for example by closing a floor. That does not mean, however, that justice must be undermined. If the VVD considers that 20 million is sufficient, you cannot organize the case law close and not maintain its quality. The choice of the VVD today is next. If that party wants both, then there really will have to be extra finances. You cannot send the Minister out with 20 million and say that both quality must be preserved or raised, and justice must be kept close. That's not how it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u106	I am a happy man, because I have heard Mrs Kooiman say that she too does not want public money to be used to finance empty spaces. Call it a platitude, but I do insist that we use it as a starting point. Furthermore, this must be done on the basis of proper consultation between municipalities, with the Court of Justice, for the benefit of the seeker. I think we have come a long way, and if Mrs Kooiman agrees with me that the Minister should be directing that, with the Minister for National Service for the sake of those integral glasses, then I think we have taken a big step.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u107	Mrs Kooiman, I would like to conclude by saying that there is already a lot of repetition.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u108	That is true, but this is not an answer to the question. The VVD acts as if we are happy with something that everyone actually finds here, even the Council for Justice itself. The Council itself, however, also says it: extra finances are needed. So we really can't do it like this, not even with creative solutions if we want to maintain quality and keep justice close. I think it's a farce if the VVD here says it can all be done at 20 million. I say butter with the fish.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u109	I would like to take the same point from another side, namely yojo policy. We have seen in the reception of refugees that exactly the same arguments were used, such as that we do not finance the vacancy, which means that many of those locations are closed down. The moment you need them again, it's extra expensive to realize them. You can see that too, and that is a smaller example of the real estate of the railway police. That had to go first, there was empty space, we didn't need it at all anymore. Now it has to come back. Then I'll give you a note that we'll say to the courts in two or three years' time: the court is so abstract and so far away from the people, they don't know them anymore. I am sure that Mr Van Oosten is also aware of the Justice initiative in the neighbourhood. Then the movement was that it had to be even smaller and even more local. Would it not be wise to see which courts with good solutions, such as co-rent and use of the building by others, can be preserved?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u110	That's what I think. That is why I also call on the Minister for Housing and National Service to play a role in this because he is dealing with government real estate policy and rules that would seem to be too inflexible. With regard to local justice, I refer to initiatives on mediation. Let's ask the Minister what's going on with that. These are other means of dispute resolution which can lead to solutions very actively and very quickly, even very close and much cheaper.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u111	I've been running a mediation centre in Australia for four years, so I know what it is, but that's not justice. That's really different. So again the question: are we not dealing here with yet another piece of yo-yo policy and are we not here in three years' time finding that justice is far too remote from people? GroenLinks is afraid of this and believes that justice should be accessible, close to the people nearby. Does the VVD agree with GroenLinks and is it prepared to pay for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u112	I agree with Mrs Van Tongeren and it is also funded. Just, I don't think you should let funding empty office spaces be part of that money. The discussion is so flattering, and I do not think that is desirable. That is the only point I want to make, and furthermore, I think that the money should go to the judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u113	I suggest that you continue with your speech because I hear a lot of repetitions, both in the questions and in the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u114	I would like to make a brief comment on the Committee on Disputes. I think that fits with the heading "jurisdiction," if I may call it that. A cut is planned; the subsidy will be reduced. Is the Disputes Committee not exactly an instrument for preventing more expensive cases from being dealt with in the courts? Is the Minister prepared to enter into consultation with the business community in order to prevent the pressure on regular case law from increasing only as a result of this intention? I would like to be informed about this at a later date. I come to my last topic: drugs. As I understand it, the possibilities of closing drug houses are limited and large cities regularly run into them. In these premises, drugs are being prepared for sale on the market by mixing them with cutting agents. I am referring, for example, to 8.5 kilos of paracetamol, 13 kilos of brown powder from those big shoppers, seven scales and you name it. Those are all tools to manufacture drugs. However, it would not be sufficient to be able to take administrative measures to find only those dissections and other fittings. If that is not possible, then I think that when you see that this kind of activity is being carried out in buildings, you should be able to close those buildings. Can the Minister indicate what possibilities there are for amending the law on this issue?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u115	I have had the contribution of the VVD's justice spokesperson working well on me. I was told that the VVD always delivers. I have also heard Mr Van Oosten say that the VVD is certainly not uncritical. His favorite is, "What a moth, that moth." It is right that he should put the moth at the centre of this budget treatment, because the moth creates holes. What is the point that Mr Van Oosten is going to say, after the government's first term, that it has changed thanks to the input of the VVD? At what point is the VVD's criticism properly repaired?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u116	Mr Pechtold is asking for one point, but I am not going to get caught like that, because that would be far too little. It would be too little honour, I think, for the contribution I made on behalf of my VVD Group. However, I am afraid that I will have a fight with the President if I now repeat which points they all are. These points are seen in terms of undermining, efficiency, police issues.......................................................................................................................................................................................... Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, I want to know what we need to deal with cybercrime. What "mot" are supplied for that? That's all I want to know. That is necessary if we then ask the Minister to do all this. Furthermore, I continue to look very critically at efficiency. That seems to me to be a very real contribution, and that seems to me to be real desires.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u117	These points are very common to me; we will not be able to keep the VVD spokesperson to that. They seem to me like ten swallows in the air, very far away from us, while I prefer to kill one moth together with Mr Van Oosten. I would very much like to hear that the VVD, together with the opposition on this draft budget, is still called 'that'. I only asked for one point; I didn't play a silly game by asking for two or three points. What point are we gonna hang out at later? What motion of the VVD is there if the Minister doesn't agree to certain things? What specific point is the VVD going to change today?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u118	Mr Pechtold asked for one specific point. That is quite simple: I want the EUR 4 000 million that is structurally additional investment in the criminal justice chain, in the justice chain, to make it. That's what I want. In this country, that is the most useful thing we can do. That money will then be spent on all those people for whom we have all expressed our appreciation: the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and so on. Following on from what I have just said to Mr Oskam, I say to Mr Pechtold: the VVD cannot do that alone; it also needs D66's support.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u119	I'm gonna have to suspend for two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u120	Mr. Chairman. My colleague Mr Van Oosten has already mentioned it in his speech. The arrival of large numbers of asylum seekers in our country also puts pressure not only on our society but also on our services. Employees of the IND, the Return and Departure Service, the COA, but also the police and the Marechaussee must make every effort to manage the large influx of refugees reaching our country. Not to mention that this also applies to local government and to all the people involved in the country, and of course to this State Secretary. They make a very commendable effort, but as far as the VVD is concerned, everything must be done to stop the uncontrolled influx of migrants into Europe. As the VVD has advocated and will continue to advocate since March of this year, the creation of sustainable reception in the region and the conclusion of treaties with third countries should be and remain a top priority until the influx is under control. Only then can we stop the right to asylum in Europe, send asylum seekers back to these safe ports and thus regain control of migration. In addition, you know in advance how much but also who you allow. In the meantime, the VVD advocates sober facilities, making it less attractive for asylum seekers to travel to the Netherlands. Human smugglers represent a golden future for displaced people, not in Turkey but in the Netherlands. Life is good there. A land of milk and honey, where a welcome in hotels is the beginning of a rich life with free amenities. And that for only a few thousand euros in travel expenses. The smuggler will show you the way. My party believes that we should make a counter-sound. Asylum seekers who are currently paying human smugglers to make the transit to the Netherlands should know that the Netherlands is not the paradise of those smugglers picturing them. The VVD therefore wants to provide realistic information, for example through social media, in the region where they make their move. Show that there are also shelter camps in the Netherlands, that there is no free money available here but sober facilities, that it takes a long time before you know whether or not to stay temporary and that it takes much longer to know whether family members are allowed to happen. Above all, show what kind of country, with which Jewish-Christian traditions and enlightenments, migrants actually end up in, so that there is no misunderstanding about what one has to adapt to. That is why, as a first step this morning, we distributed the relevant letter from the Secretary of State in Arabic translation online in countries such as Turkey, Egypt and Lebanon, where human smugglers are currently ready with great sales stories about a golden future in this country. In the meantime, closer home, but no less important, is needed to intensify border controls, in the light of our own security. The VVD has been committed to this for a long time. It's important to keep doing that. That is not without results either, because the Secretary of State recently announced that 40 smugglers have been arrested. Can the Secretary of State promise the VVD that he will enter into consultation with the Secretary of Defense in order to get the best out of his league? As far as the VVD is concerned, sufficient deployment of the KMar is at least necessary, but if this is not sufficient, support from other military components, such as green at the border, should also be possible. In the meantime, my VVD colleague, Fred Teeven, has also tabled a motion on this subject to the Defence budget, which was adopted yesterday. The VVD is therefore attacking this issue from both sides.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u121	Mr Azmani jumped from the region to the internal borders. The VVD first stated that the boundaries really had to be closed, but then they had to be policy-dated. So this plan isn't so much left. I have a question about a proposal that my party recently made with regard to tackling human smugglers. This proposal will ensure that European border control is put in place. The VVD did not support that proposal, but why not?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u122	Because this is not a proposal from the D66 Group. It is a measure that has already been implemented by the European Commission. The VVD has already drawn attention to this in the four-point plan, even for the March plan. In that respect, there is no news under the sun. I do not intend to support anything that is not new under the sun in the form of a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u123	That is fascinating, because in every debate Mr Ten Broeke, a colleague of Mr Azmani, advocates exactly the same thing. An open border policy means replacing Frontex with a truly European border and coastguard system. The VVD said no during the votes, but I understand that Mr Azmani is now saying yes. I think that's a win, because the VVD hasn't said that yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u124	I do not need to explain to Mr Sjoerdsma what a motion is. In a motion, the government is ordered to do something. However, the government itself has already indicated its commitment to intensifying control at the external borders. The Netherlands contributes to this. This is already part of the European Agenda on Migration. This was also the subject of proposals last year, through Mr Ten Broeke, but also through my four-point policy. Then came the plan of March. The picture is that the VVD often does not support any motions, but if there is any support for policy in this respect, we usually do not support those motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u125	A little correction. Mr Azmani now called for this motion to support policy and for the cabinet to do so. However, the cabinet response to the motion was not that there was any support for the policy. The cabinet was not in favour of this. On the contrary, the cabinet found the motion too early. That is why I would like to ask Mr Azmani once again. If he supports my proposal, I welcome it. The cabinet didn't do that before. Does Mr Azmani still support my proposal to force the cabinet to support this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u126	Something's gonna happen to me now. I know all the motions filed in the Chamber, not directly by my head. Last Tuesday we also voted again on legio motions. In this case, I think it is not the motion on strengthening control at the external borders, but Mr Sjoerdsma's motion on a European service which would then have to control the external borders. As far as we are concerned, that is a step too early, because we have Frontex. The Netherlands participates in this. I think it is a good thing that we are going to step up this, but that does not have to be a European service as far as we are concerned in advance. There's a difference. I made a number of proposals to the then Secretary of State for Security and Justice in the budget a year ago to make it easier for foreigners who behave badly in this country to be declared undesirable and denied residence. As a result, I see now also a promising opportunity in relation to people without Dutch nationality, who, although long-term resident or even born here, have serious crimes on their consciences, such as murder or rape. I also call it a radicalised man who thinks he should be attacked. The law prevents us from denying these serious criminals the right of residence. According to Article 21 (4) of the Aliens Act, children born or raised in the Netherlands of migrants can only be deported on public order grounds where there is an irrevocable sentence to a prison sentence of more than 60 months for trafficking in narcotic drugs. This is not the case at this time, nor is it in line with the earlier tightening of the sliding scale, which has no effect on this target group, since the law clearly prohibits it except for drug trafficking. The VVD wants perpetrators of, among other things, violent robberies, violent crimes, life crimes, terrorism and sexual offences, as well as offenders. This means, as far as the VVD is concerned, that they are not entitled to our nationality. They lose that right, and even if they were born here, they no longer have the right of residence and must actually leave the country. Is the Secretary of State prepared to prepare the bill which deletes the last sentence of Article 21 (4) of the Foreigner's Act? Furthermore, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his letter today, in which he announces that, on commitments to, among other things, the VVD, we should strengthen the policy for asylum seekers who believe that they should go the wrong way and take advantage of our hospitality. Then I come to the return of asylum seekers to the country of origin or a safe region. My party believes that this can be used more firmly. For example, the possibility to deploy Frontex flights, whether or not in combination with other Member States, is not yet fully exploited to decommission. Does the Secretary of State wish to be a driving force on the European stage? Can we expect a joint return operation in the short term with the expulsion of a number of foreigners who are not allowed to stay in the country? At the beginning of November, the Secretary of State wrote that the countries of the Western Balkans could be considered safe countries. Since the Netherlands also has to deal with the increased influx of asylum seekers from those countries, priority must be given to reject these asylum applications and to expel them immediately and not allow them to go along in the large stream. As far as the VVD is concerned, this list of safe countries will be extended. For example, the VVD would like to see a country like Turkey on the list in the short term. What does the Secretary of State think of the many other countries where, according to the IND report, people come from until October to apply for asylum here? As an example, I mention asylum applications from people from Morocco, Mongolia and India. I can go on like that. There are even asylum applications from countries such as the USA, Trinidad and Tobago and Jamaica. Surely these countries could be included on the list of safe countries, which would enable these asylum applications to be reduced and expulsions to take place? I'd like to get a response from the Secretary of State. I understand that at the time of the biggest migration crisis in history it is difficult to think about regular economic migration. However, I think that is necessary. The world is not standing still and asylum migration and regular economic migration are related to each other. In addition, we must avoid using asylum-related migration in European countries as an inappropriate means of overcoming, for example, an ageing problem. It is therefore necessary to fundamentally review the regular economic migration policy, including with a view to the future. All EU Member States could have the same system, to which individual Member States could give their own interpretation, allowing them to regulate migration to their countries. The VVD sees a movement from a demand-driven migration model to a more hybrid migration model. One can think of a point system, with buttons that the government can turn on, and where employers can even attract migrants. Member States may, on the basis of work supply, desired level of education, language skills, work experience and origin, attract migrants to whom there is currently a need. This creates a legal path for promising migration. I call for circular migration: an incentive for temporary migration. Europe is working on the so-called bluecard scheme. My only suspicion is that this is still too small a step for Europe to be able to compete internationally and to maintain the prosperity of Europe, as well as of the Netherlands, in the future. My question to the Secretary of State is to give his appreciation of my substantive proposal for a fundamental review of the regular economic migration policy. In this context, I would also like to ask about the recent economic migration arrangements, for example the start-up visa proposed by the VVD. Am I correctly informed that the fee from €500 has been increased to €5,000? If so, why is such a high financial threshold being set? Can't it go any lower? Is it true that after a year the income limit of the knowledge migrants scheme has to be met, while a successful start-up cannot always generate this income for itself within a year? Shouldn't there be more room for a potentially successful start-up to extend the start-up visa by one year on the basis of objective criteria or an assessment of a special board? You could opt for a progressive model in terms of income, where after a year at least the minimum income has to be earned by the start-up and which then increases you to three years. Does the Secretary of State reject this in advance or is he prepared to think about it? I ended up with this at the end of my first term. Migration policy is dared to set boundaries. Realism is very important here. Only then can we turn migration into an opportunity for our society instead of a threat, as is the case today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u127	They are always a lot of words from Mr Azmani. But let's see what the VVD has actually done in recent times. The VVD has provided yet another general pardon arrangement. The VVD gives bed, bath and bread to illegals. Thanks to the VVD, we are in an asylum crisis that is unprecedented. The biggest immigration records are on the conto of the VVD. Those are the facts of the VVD. Isn't that what the VVD is ashamed of?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u128	I'm not so embarrassed. We have had another cabinet for this, the Rutte-I cabinet, with tolerance from the PVV. A number of groups here made a plea for a child's pardon. What happened next? The PVV pulled the plug from the cabinet. As a result, there was a majority for a children's pardon. In the Chamber, an initiative law was passed which was much wider than was agreed in the government agreement. It is very easy to say that the children's pardon is due to the VVD, but Mr Fritsma knows very well how the VVD feels about the general's pardon. He also knows how I indicated this in the debate, namely contrecoeur. As far as the migration crisis is concerned, it is an illusion to think that the Netherlands can keep it in its own hands. It is a European problem which will also have to be solved at European level. I am concerned about developments in this area. Mr Fritsma knows that too. However, I do not agree that it is up to this cabinet that we are now dealing with a very increased influx, which I see, too, that borders are coming into sight.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u129	I've been hearing that for years: the boundaries are coming into sight. That's exactly the problem. Meanwhile, the VVD will break the next immigration record and the next asylum record. All Mr Azmani is doing is saying that the borders are coming into view. Then he leaves them wide open. That's the problem. My request to the VVD is: take action, do not let this happen, stop that asylum influx! Stop giving away the Netherlands to mass immigration and Islamization! That's gotta be the VVD!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u130	That is Mr Fritsma's famous hollow rhetoric. We get that a lot. So put forward substantive proposals, I would say. I find it very special that in March I came up with a plan to provide a structural solution for how to deal with immigration, how to manage it better. Then the foreman of the PVV mentioned that as a top plan, but one day after that he thought: I withdraw it, otherwise I give too much support to the VVD. Mr Fritsma is sticking to his hollow rhetoric and shouts 'close borders, close borders, close borders', without giving substance to how we do that and how you prevent immigration. That is up to Mr Fritsma. I say we do something policy-wise. If we really want the borders closed, we need to stop providing people with facilities, no more rights, once we have made sure that these things are arranged for them elsewhere and are better organised.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u131	Mr. Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u132	Finally, Mr President. We are not the party that says: refugees, choose it all yourselves; choose it in Syria, what do I care about these grenades and bombs? That's not what we're here for. We want sound solutions, and I would like to hear Mr Fritsma talk about this in future, rather than his hollow rhetoric.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u133	Were you finished talking?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u134	I was done talking.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u135	Oh, thank God. Mr. Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u136	On 17 September, Mr Azmani's group chairman said that the border was almost reached in terms of reception. I would like to ask Mr Azmani whether the border has now been reached.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u137	I see that it is becoming increasingly difficult to create shelters in this country. I also see organisations like IND and COA are doing their best. That is why I said in my introduction that it deserves a great deal of appreciation for what these people are doing at the moment. However, Mr Sjoerdsma must agree with me that if it continues this way, also next spring, the border will indeed be closer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u138	I ask because the VVD has said almost every week since 17 September that the borders were in sight, but 15,000 asylum seekers have been added since then. Mr Azmani seems to suggest that his Secretary of State is not in control, that there is chaos in the process. The only thing Mr Azmani wants to say is that there must be a limit. Now that the cabinet says that 58.000 asylum seekers will be coming next year, he must be concerned about the preparations of this cabinet, because there is no money for this, except for the IND.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u139	That is exactly why the VVD presented a austerity package in October in a plan. That is exactly why the Secretary of State sent that letter in October with honest information: it takes a very long time for you to get into proceedings; it is not so that you can let your family members come here right away; the facilities are quite sober and soccer here. We now have that information in Arabic and put it in the social media in Turkey, Egypt, Lebanon. The party of D66 is only looking at it a little bit, from: I don't know either. That's not how I see the problem. We can't just control it. We do this together in Europe. However, we should not be crazy Gerrit and we should actually deflect the influx to the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u140	Finally, Mr Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u141	That was a lot of getting, but it wasn't an answer to my question. Let me ask my question again. Does Mr Azmani think that this cabinet is adequately prepared for the 58,000 asylum seekers coming to the Netherlands next year? Is there enough money available for this? Is there enough manpower available for that? I like to hear a yes or a no on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u142	Then Mr Sjoerdsma should specify his question. As far as finances are concerned, we see that at least 60.5 million has been added to the 58.000 people next year...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u143	Just yes or no!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u144	So yes, 50 million...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u145	- There's enough out there? - Yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u146	For the estimate of 58,000: yes. The 2016 Spring Note will have to consider whether this is sufficient or whether more needs to be adapted. I'm guessing we're gonna get over 58,000 next year. I am concerned about that, and I would like the D66 party to be honest and realistic about it and to be concerned about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u147	No, no, because now Mr Sjoerdsma has to make that a personal fact again. No questions, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u148	Mr President, I will not ask a question. I can briefly recall that since March 2013, we have been asking the cabinet to prepare for the influx of asylum seekers, that we have made proposals for registration, that we have made proposals for data transfer. I will forward the questions we asked at the time and since then to Mr Azmani, so that he can read them back.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u149	We are talking about the budget for security and justice. Let's take a look at the coverage and the estimation of two items. The first concerns the IND. That's $60 million. This must be covered by the efficiency reduction. The IND receives 50 million; 10 million goes to Nidos, of which they have to cough up 7 million. A total of 27 million has to come from relocation within Europe. So that's not extra money. Then there is 26 million left to be covered from other ministries. How solid does the VVD find the coverage of the 50 million for the IND?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u150	That last part comes from the asylum reserve. It's not in the V and J budget, it's elsewhere. We can get cover out of there. The 7.5 million is an efficiency reduction for the organisation. You invest in an organisation and so you also ensure that the process is organised efficiently. That is what this efficiency reduction is about. The rest is indeed a cover for the European redistribution programme for which we have also signed. That's for the estimate we're looking at right now. In spring, we'll see what it means for the coming year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u151	The bill will therefore be transferred to spring. There is, moreover, another motion for a resolution by Mr Slob/Samsom, which refers to the Year's Note, including next year's estimate. The VVD says: let's see what's going on next year. This is not how we can approve the budget here. The Friday letter gives an indication of the influx of 58,000 asylum seekers. If we get it, and Mr Azmani says we'll probably get more, then we'll have a gap in the budget of about 500 million, in relation to COA.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u152	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u153	The budget includes 923 million for this year; 430 million for next year for COA reception. How are you going to close that hole, Mr Azmani? You have to look ahead, don't you? Surely you cannot approve a budget with a 500 million hole?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u154	We certainly look forward. It is also always customary to look at windfalls and income and so on in the spring note. Then you look at the broader picture. The Secretary of State had promised to supplement the budget and I see an additional 60.5 million. Of these, 50 million are for IND/COA and 10.5 million for Nidos. This is partly covered by the asylum reserve, partly by an efficiency reduction and partly by European funds. I don't think that's so weird.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u155	Mr Azmani is talking about the IND. Let that cover come out fair and square. Then you have 50 million for the IND for the extra influx. However, the COA falls under the budget of Security and Justice, regardless of the first-year reception provided for in Ploumen's budget. Then you can't transfer the $500 million bill to next year, can you? You have to take that into account in your budget, don't you? How can the VVD be blind to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u156	That's not us at all. These resources will of course be available; let that be clear and clear. However, we must also ensure that Mr Voordewind also realizes that the influx is not only being diverted to Western Europe. The Netherlands has a great responsibility in this respect, alongside countries such as Germany, Sweden, etc. This must be done in a different way, because it will not be enforceable in the long term, certainly not for the capacity of society.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u157	I would almost ask Mr Azmani to speak more slowly. It's hard to follow.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u158	Every little bird...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u159	... sings the way it's beaked. Sure. I can hardly imagine it, but I hear in Mr Azmani's words that the financial solidity of the VVD has been reduced to look at the windfalls in the spring note. A number of colleagues have rightly calculated what is going on. There's 233 million in the asylum reserve. The cost of the COA for first-year care amounts to 347 million for 26,000 asylum seekers. If it's gonna be 60,000, it's gonna take 800 million. The backup'll be empty by then. And all I'm talking about is the freshman daycare. Where is the financial soundness of the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u160	First-year care is financed by ODA funds. The costs of such reception shall not be covered by the relevant reserve. That is my short answer, and I do not think I spoke very quickly either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u161	Indeed a short answer, and not so quickly expressed. But it doesn't give grounds for good policy. Because I haven't talked about the houses that need to be built. I haven't talked about the care that will be needed. I haven't talked about the IND, which is totally out of line with its task. This isn't gonna work out like this. In my term, I'm going to ask the Secretary of State for a letter of amendment and a financial statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u162	That's what you're gonna do later, Mrs. Keijzer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u163	I will certainly do so later, Mr President, before we get to the government's first term. The VVD also talks about limiting the influx. The VVD plan is: boundaries closed. This turned out to mean the European borders, and it was an administrative closure. One of the things that will happen at European level is the creation of hotspots. One of them has been realized. The VVD is the largest government party and it's on the buttons. How will the VVD achieve limiting the influx?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u164	Mrs Keijzer, I would say: look at conclusion 15 of the conclusions drawn by the Ministers of the 28 Member States on 15 September. There you see the answer to your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u165	Paper's patient. Those appointments were made on September 15th. I have seen an overview of the progress made in implementing these agreements on 15 October. It says there's been one hotspot realized. I don't think there's much left today, November 25th. What is left of the big words of the VVD Group? We see that in the end nothing changes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u166	The creation of hotspots is a kind of intermediate measure, a short-term measure. That measure is not part of my plan and I have always been very critical of it. I have always said that such hotspots may be desirable for the short term. I have always suspected that this will work very hard in practice. That is what I have always said in debates. I must also note that this is not so fast. I believe that official assistance is now being provided to ensure that these hotspots are actually implemented in the short term. Because we can see it's not working right now. Mrs Keijzer must agree with me. I therefore hope for proposals from her group on how we can reduce the influx towards the Netherlands and towards Western Europe as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u167	I am not going to interrupt Mr Azmani on an ideological level, because we are opposite each other. However, I do have a question with which I would like to deal with the interruptions of the Christian Union, D66 and CDA. I understand that the VVD really wants to use the closure of borders to prevent asylum seekers from coming to the Netherlands as much as possible. At the same time, Mr Azmani is taking into account an influx which will be greatly increased next year. Is that right? Was Mr Azmani not talking about a small 60,000 people he expects to register next year and help here in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u168	Next year's estimate is 58 000, and I predict that there will be more. We all have to be realistic about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u169	That is very good in itself, but I would like to rephrase the question put by some of my fellow Members with the question of where Mr Azmani thinks the money should come from next spring. If he thinks there's gonna be 60,000 and maybe more people, I wonder where that's gonna be covered from.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u170	That is something we are discussing in the Spring paper. That's not what we're doing right now. Now I see a cover of 60.5 million for the short term, and in the spring note we see where this might come from.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u171	Finally, Mrs Gesthuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u172	It would be very unusual for us not to look at it now, when we are all aware that there is probably a major problem next year. Moreover, it is not a problem of a few tens of millions of euros but a much bigger problem. One of the few issues that really need to be discussed in this debate is the 2016 budget. Again, where does the VVD expect to get that money in 2016 if it is not organised in this budget and we have to note that some of them are still very dissatisfied with the way the Justice budget looks in terms of financial resources?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u173	It seems clear to me that, now that the estimates are set at 58,000, 60,5 million has been added. That has been translated into Nidos for 10.5 million and 50 million to the IND. From there, it has been covered by 7.5 million reductions in efficiency, some of which are based on European funds and some of which are in the asylum reserves.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u174	Mr Sjoerdsma, I hear there's an interruption in threes. I would like to bring that back to interrupting in two, because it is long interrupting and a limited number of times or a lot of interrupting and short. I take it that you want to interrupt a lot and so we go back to twice, i.e. a question and a follow-up question, and then as short as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u175	I see an opposition here saying that it is worrying about next year, about the budget and about the estimate. The opposition has made far-reaching proposals in previous debates to tackle this problem. From Mr Azmani I hear an arrogant murmuring, the expulsion of the opposition. If he himself says that the government's estimate is too little and that there will be more, let Mr Azmani take his own words seriously. What is to be done, then, in budgetary terms?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u176	We are assuming the estimate of 58.000. The cover is clear, as I have just said. So it's a repeat of moves. In my view, we have no answer other than the answer I give, namely an estimate of 58 000, 10.5 million to Nidos, 50 million to the IND, and the coverage is from the general reserve, European funds and the efficiency reduction for the IND of 7.5 million.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u177	Just that same murmur again, the almost incomprehensible gibberish about what is already in the budget. I also see the Minister and the Secretary of State responding and rightly so. If they can understand it, perhaps they can pass it on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u178	You say that you cannot understand Mr Azmani correctly. Mr Azmani, perhaps you'd better talk into the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u179	I'm not gonna play this game, Mr. Chairman. I have already given an answer three or four times in response to an interruption. We are not satisfied with the answer and then the President concludes... Obviously you are not satisfied with the answer, but this is Mr Azmani's answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u180	I am the chairman here and I hear a Member saying 'I can't hear you'. I would advise you to speak more clearly in the microphone. I would advise Mr Sjoerdsma to listen carefully. Your second question, Mr Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u181	I will listen to your opinion, Mr President, that seems polite to me. Mr Azmani referred to budget coverage. We've all read it. Mr Azmani says: it is chaos now, I am very worried. At the same time, he says that next year will be fine. How can Mr Azmani rhyme with that? Let him explain that one more time, quietly and intelligible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u182	I'm not saying everything's gonna be okay. I'm not saying it's gonna be okay. I'm worried about it. I say this not only in this debate, but also in previous debates. I propose measures, structural solutions and temporary solutions so as not to lead the influx to the Netherlands alone. We are talking about financial cover. I note that the letter contains an estimate of 58 000 with cover: part from the asylum reserve, part from European funds and 7.5 million reductions in efficiency in IND.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u183	It's kind of special what we're going through right now. The Minister listened carefully to the opposition noises. He added 250 million last Friday, just for the rule of law. It'll cover the holes. You can still differ on how much more you need to add. About a Secretary of State who has a 500 million hole in his budget, the VVD says: go to sleep, we'll look ahead next summer. Surely we cannot say yes to such a budget. How will the VVD address its own Secretary of State at this point? The holes need to be closed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u184	I don't see that 500 million hole one-two-three, but maybe the Secretary of State can explain it tomorrow. I see an estimate, an adjustment to 58,000 and a cover.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u185	Mr Azmani is only looking at the IND. As Mr Azmani knows, security and justice are also responsible for the reception; not for the first year, but for the next. This is budgeted for EUR 850 million in this year's budget. That's probably going to go up to 1 billion. For next year, 430 million has been budgeted. That looks like a hole of at least 500 million. You yourself say that we're probably going over that 58.000 inflow. Then there is a concrete 500 million hole. Why doesn't the VVD call on the Secretary of State to at least cross the bridge with 100 or 200 million?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u186	That was easily said by Mr Voordewind. I insist that the estimate has been adjusted to 58 000. That's covered. I think we all know that next year there are major challenges here. I also find that problematic for the future. I'm not just saying that now, I've been telling you that lately. I also put forward substantive proposals on this subject. Sometimes we manage to find a common denominator. I call on other parties to make proposals to prevent it from rising.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u187	Mr. Chairman. I see a speaking time of 4 minutes and 36 seconds. I don't think that's very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u188	You have 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u189	Mr. Chairman. In the month in which the world was shocked by horrible acts of terror, this week we are talking about the Dutch budget for Security and Justice. Before I go into the current level of safety in the Netherlands, I have a few comments on Friday's announced investments. The cabinet took the message of last year's CDA when we voted against and this year's warning to heart. Fortunately, legislative proposals that are not going to make it will be withdrawn. In addition, there is a need to invest in the safety chain. The CDA therefore sees last weekend's letter as a serious attempt by the cabinet to get wider support. The direction the cabinet has chosen is therefore good, but important questions remain open, especially about the case law and the National Police. I'll start with the police. The chain is as strong as the weakest link. The CDA is deeply concerned about the way in which the Minister wishes to structurally strengthen the primary role of the police. This week it rained policy letters about the National Police, but one thing stuck: only in spring 2016 will the Minister look at possible investments. That's incomprehensible to the CDA. Last Friday's letter also makes it unclear how, when and by what amount the Minister will strengthen the National Police. An amount of 138 million is earmarked, but part of it will go to measures on subsidised legal aid. So what part of it is it? In addition, it is conceivable that part of this amount will not be spent on investment in detectives and enough district agents, but on a new police cao and ICT investment. Can the Minister divide this amount exactly? Like Mr Pechtold, we just want to know where we are and where it is going. For the CDA, we want to reduce the workload by investing more in people and not in a collective agreement that does not reduce the workload. We'd like to get an explanation of that amount. I come to speak about justice. Two years ago, in 2013, the then Minister of Security and Justice said that 32 full seats would remain. Now seven courts are stripped of important parts under the guise of 'we do not finance empty positions'. The justification for this is downright poor. There aren't even business cases, except in Limburg. The case of Limburg, which we always call "Maastricht versus Roermond," shows that the Public Prosecutor's Office and the police are ultimately the financial losers of the choices made there. The CDA finds the housing plan as a whole unacceptable, as well as its modified version. The Minister has the opportunity, with the amount of investment now being invested, to offer a solution in this respect. As has already been said, the Minister must take the lead. The CDA asks the Minister if he is prepared to do so. This is an important point for the CDA in finalising this Justice budget. The CDA wants the Minister to wait until the review of the judicial card in 2018, as suggested by the NVvR, and wants the courts, judges and local government to work on creative solutions for the short and longer term to deal with the emptiness until then. At the moment they are being put at their throats and we notice from the sensitivities that it is just not right. Is the Minister prepared to redistribute the investments in such a way that the housing plan can be put in the refrigerator for the time being? Budgetary treatment is not just about money and not just about figures. At a time when the world is on fire and also in the Netherlands the chance of an attack is real, it is also about the reliability of the government. The cabinet quickly put together an action plan of jihadism, but a year and a half later it seems to have been lacking in the necessary legislative proposals. We discussed this last week in the debate on Paris. Not one of the legislative proposals announced in the Action Plan has entered into force. However, it is not just the legislative proposals, but also the measures announced. Can the Minister state very precisely how many travellers have been detained in the Netherlands after their return? Can he put this off, just to make a comparison, against the number of people being held hostage for not paying a traffic ticket? On the expiry of passports, the Minister wrote in September 2015 that until now the country of second nationality has not been requested to take a similar measure. It is then a question of withdrawing the second passport when it comes to the suspicion of travelling to Syria. In other words, there is no known case in which both passports of a person of dual nationality were declared invalid. How is this possible? Back then, Minister Opstelten promised a year and a half ago that this would happen. In a letter in response to a motion from my colleague Omtzigt, he wrote that in the event of an alert for the revocation of the Dutch passport of a person of dual nationality, the country of second nationality may be requested to take a similar measure. Why does the Minister not honour this last commitment? Which countries of second nationality are these mostly Dutch nationals travelling to Syria? Is the Netherlands actively engaged in talks with these countries to improve the situation? I would like the Minister's undertaking that he will take this issue actively, otherwise they will continue to travel. In the wake of the attacks in Paris, reinforced legislative proposals on arms trade have been proposed at European level. The CDA supports this, but also wants to speed up in the Netherlands. Does the Minister share the view that intensive detection can already take place in the Netherlands after offering weapons on Dutch internet sites? What's the role of the new firearms officer who came forward with the CDA? Can the Netherlands already contact EU Member States with a view to informal exchange between police forces of data files and issued weapons permits? I'd like to get a reaction to this. I would like to ask the Secretary of State how the granting of legal arms permits is going in the Netherlands. In future, there will be several parties involved in the granting of those licences. Is there sufficient guarantees in this respect? An additional investment in the budget of Security and Justice is not only necessary because of the increased threat of terrorism. I would like to mention a number of other reasons. Organised and financial serious crime in the Netherlands is and remains a major problem. The strengthening of capacity in the south of the Netherlands proved to be a cigar out of its own box, but what about the rest of the Netherlands? I will take out one case that we have received from the police unit in the East Netherlands. It is an important service, which deals with tapping, eavesdropping, placing cameras and placing beacons on cars. That service has 45 cases in progress; that is what the service is doing. There's 25 cases on the shelf. That was before "Paris" happened; by now there are more. Employees must be able to use and call seven days a week for 24 hours. They are not allowed to work overtime and the picket fee is reduced. I'll also tell you how many people are on that heavily understaffed shift: nine men. The tasks shall be carried out alternately. That means there's gonna be holes in it. These people actually think this is horrible. How does the Minister assess this case and can he generally guarantee sufficient manpower for these essential units? The CDA is at the cradle of juvenile criminal law. Customizing young criminals is very important. Recently, however, it was found that psychiatric treatments advised by the judge are sometimes only started after nine months or not at all. Because prosecutors are stuck in bureaucracy and because municipalities through the decentralisations to the municipalities sometimes do not meet their funding obligations, those children are going to fail. Forensic clinics also seem to lack experience in dealing with juvenile criminal law and the associated financial flows. Secretary of State Van Rijn has recently said that he will have an investigation carried out, but that will only be completed in the spring of 2016. Can the Minister, from his role as guardian of the criminal justice chain, guarantee that, until then, the recordings imposed will not stand still for so long? How will the Minister achieve this in practice? Everyone understands the importance of the fact that these children stand still in their development. The sooner you intervene, the better. Following answers from the Minister to factual questions, the CDA Group is deeply concerned that in 2014 the feasibility of more than 15,000 fines, 1,200 custodial sentences and 173 commuted community sentences expired. The CDA finds this impossible. The credibility of the rule of law is at stake if sanctions are not implemented. Moreover, criminals remain able to continue their criminal activities. Does the Minister see the need to further improve this feasibility of penalties? How is he going to do this as a final responsibility for the execution of those sentences at the state's attorney's office and later at his own ministry? My group also asks the Minister whether he is prepared to extend the legal limitation period for the enforcement of penalties.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u190	Of course, the credibility of the rule of law is at stake if penalties imposed are not implemented. So I fully agree with Mr Oskam, but is the credibility of the rule of law not at stake if it takes so long? Shouldn't we just press harder on serving the sentence quickly after punishment instead of saying that the government can take a little longer because we're going to stretch that term?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u191	I don't mean that last one either. I agree with you: I also think it should be done quickly. The sooner, the better, but we run into the fact that people take a few years and are difficult to trace; that's what we hear from the Ministry. Then it's partly about the investment you want to make in tracking and tracking people, but sometimes it's also good that the deadline is a little longer. If people train themselves, you can still arrest them. Back to the 2016 budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u192	I said: go ahead, but I see that Mr Van Oosten also has a question on this point. It's useful if he says it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u193	I have a question about the limitation period. Mr Oskam called for an extension of the limitation period for the enforcement of penalties. To what extent does he share the idea that you should also dare to think about extending limitation periods of offences as such? We have discussed this before in the Chamber. I'm thinking of crimes like theft, assault and so on. So not the serious crimes, because for that the deadline has already been extended, but the offences that are just below the penalty.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u194	Well, that looks like something else. I don't have a problem with that. I'm fine with that; if you do bad things, you have to take responsibility for it. I agree with Mr Recourt that the government must make pace. However, where the suspect or the convicted person walks the system, we must do everything in the legislation to prevent it. The Minister removes a few small subsidies between his nose and lips, for example by cutting back on the Qualitymark Safe Enterprise and Safety Small Businesses. Of course, the responsibility lies primarily with the shopkeeper who is responsible for prevention. However, the grant for the Trustmark Safe Business is intended to promote cooperation between the different partners and to act as a catalyst for these local investments. It is an important subsidy that helps to strengthen each other. This is important not only for the shopkeepers, but also for the shopping public and ultimately for the whole society. Is the Minister prepared to look at this financial discount, but also to talk to Retailer Netherlands about the continuity of KVO and the possible improvements that can be made to it? The retail sector is going to set up a separate foundation so that the associated retailers can exchange images in order to improve the approach of mobile gangs. Will the Minister undertake that the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office will also sit at the table so that they can make available capacity to use images in the search? I'd like to get a reaction to this. I would like to see a hand put out by the Minister when disputes committees in business disappear. Will this have bad consequences in this way? Has the Minister examined the effects of this? If not, is he prepared to do this before he withdraws the subsidies? In an interruption with Mr Van Oosten it already emerged that the Minister will still carry out the previously rejected Oskam/Van der Staaij motion. It calls on the government to ensure that the proceeds of settlements are of structural benefit to security and justice. That is good news, but remarkably, in 2013 this plan was not a majority. I'm glad. Why can't we do it now? How will structural funding take place if there are fewer than 100 million out of large settlements? I understand that this will be backed up by the Minister of Finance, but I would like to have more clarity on this. I would like to move on to local politics; it will be clear that it is now of particular interest to me. How does the Minister view the recent plea made by Peter Noordanus, Mayor of Tilburg, who has proposed to use the amount of 3 million earmarked to combat undermining in the South of the Netherlands, for a number of pilots to assess in practice whether the social and factual proceeds of the capture can be improved? The intention is, of course, that this revenue should go to the municipalities. Will the Minister respond to this idea of Noordanus? The Minister's approach to justice and the Public Prosecutor's Office is less than they want. Has the Minister adequately translated the critical comments of the Public Prosecutor's Office into the additional investment of 15 million? Shouldn't this amount be higher? I'll think twice. I am particularly concerned by the conclusion that the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Ministry are not sufficiently financially controlled. However, it is also a question of whether quality programmes such as OM 2020 are a bit of a vision for the Public Prosecutor's Office and the former Minister's parade-horse-horse-horse-horse-horse-horse-horse-horse-horse-horse-horse-horse-horse-horse-horse-horse-horse-horse-horse-horse-horse-horse-horse-horse-horse-horse-horse-horse-horse-horse-horse. And what about the plans in the ICT field? The criminal justice chain will work digitally in 2016, but is the Public Prosecutor's Office ready? I'd like to get a response on these points. I have already said that the courts must remain fully open. At the same time, innovation in the organisations is necessary, as is the case with the Public Prosecutor's Office. I am thinking here of the Professional Standards programme that is being developed. What exactly is the amount needed for this? How exactly is the amount stated in Friday's letter filled in? Yesterday we also received a short letter stating that the KEI project is likely to be much more expensive. We've had a letter like this once before. What amount will be involved and how will we prevent new setbacks in the future? I'm going into the prison system. Due to an additional financial deficit with the DJI, the prison directors of the State Secretary have to cope with an additional deficit of 60 million. It is about the so-called Breaking Measures. A further blow in the prison system is of concern to the CDA group. She is thinking of the resilience of employees, but also of the re-socialisation risks of prisoners. I would like to hear a response from the Secretary of State. The General Court regularly warns us about the budget of justice. My question to the Minister is whether all the recommendations of the General Court will be fully followed, even when it comes to the flow of cases into the criminal justice chain. The task of the Chamber is to check, but this way we can do little about it. There is, in fact, too little progress in setting quantitative targets for transit and outflow. Is the Minister prepared to formulate the objectives for the outflow, as previously promised by his predecessor? Finally, I'm going to deal with the National Police. During the formation of the National Police, the Chamber set a standard for the number of district agents in the law: one district agent out of 5,000 inhabitants. The minister says time and time again that the number of district agents is a matter for local authority. He also says that the National Police reserves 4% of job vacancies for district agents for relocation candidates. It can't be both true. I'd like to hear a response. The Minister argues that the number of district agents in 96% is in order, but the task of the district agent is under serious pressure at this time. The CDA Group is constantly getting signals from practice that there is too little time left for work in the neighbourhood. While the district agent must be the eyes and ears of the district, he is much scheduled for emergency aid and reception centres for asylum seekers. What measures does the Minister take to ensure that he does not only provide the right number of district agents, but also an adequate set of tasks? I'm gonna go over the stakes at the shelters. In October, the National Organisation of Police Volunteers offered to the Minister to deploy police volunteers in emergency shelters, to secure them and to register asylum seekers. This way the pressure on the police can be eased. I'm sure police volunteers looking for work would like to get to work for the police. Their benefit makes it difficult to use them now, but perhaps the Minister can do something about it. As far as I'm concerned, the Minister takes advantage of the offer. I see you beckoning, Mr. Chairman. I'm moving on fast. Then I come to the financial risks. The reorganisation of the National Police cost 230 million more. The General Court recently warned about the financial risks of the real estate portfolio. The Minister has reckoned richly with the sale of police stations, but that is a difficult point. For the CDA, the accessibility and service of the police are important. How does the Minister see this? Another financial risk encountered by the police is the reservoir of leave hours created by overtime during the nuclear summit. Suppose these hours are to be paid, what are the amounts involved? Does he have money for that? Mr. Chairman. I'll save the rest for my second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u195	Mr. Chairman. The CDA stands for a humane but sober asylum policy. That has gone quite well for years, but now there is something else going on. In the world 60 million people are fleeing, and as many as 20 million of them outside their own country. The horrors in Syria and Iraq have led to more than 11 million refugees from these countries together, but also elsewhere in the world the need is high. Around 9 million refugees come from African countries. In 2014, UNHCR accounted for 450 000 applications for Europe. However, in 2015, the flow of refugees has taken an unprecedented turn and these figures have become obsolete. In Germany alone, 1 million asylum seekers are expected this year, or perhaps more. The refugee issue has several layers: that of the refugee seeking security and a better life; that of the many mayors, aldermen, council members and volunteers who are trying to make the most of it; that of international politics, in which areas of conflict need to be adapted, but where there is also a need to discuss the Refugee Convention. Let us talk today about the layer of the Dutch government, which still seems to be robbed by everything that is going on, with great consequences for our country. The government has now adjusted the number of asylum seekers for 2016 to 58.000, according to last Friday's letter. But is that real? For 2015, 36,000 refugees were initially counted. That now also amounts to 58.000. However, the European Commission expects 3 million for 2016 and 2017. Analogously, you speak for the Netherlands about some 90,000 people who will be able to report next year. What does the government think of this analysis? For the time being, the government's choosing not to talk about it. Is there even disagreement within the bosom of this cabinet about the figures, about the facts? A letter of amendment with financial consequences is imminent, but why are we not discussing it today, when we are discussing the 2016 budget? Today we need to discuss the impact of the large influx of refugees on the IND, the COA, the number of homes needed, the education of the children, the necessary care and, after receiving a residence permit and a home, the benefits. Will the Secretary of State send the letter of amendment plus the consequences for all other budgets before replying in the first term of the government to the Chamber? Asylum reception in the Netherlands has also had a major impact on reception capacity. So far it has been possible to offer every asylum seeker a bed, but that seems no longer a matter of course. The VNG's letter on all problems at municipal level speaks volumes. The asylum system itself, as well as the strength of local communities, are being tested and this evokes intense emotions. Questions arise about security risks, the temporaryity of asylum and associated rights and short- and long-term integration. The cabinet will have to respond to these questions in addition to the logistical operation of everyday life, even today and tomorrow. When more than a year ago, in November 2014, the CDA sparked the debate on the asylum flow with the proposal of the status of displaced persons, the cabinet did not give up. The same applies to the adaptation of the Refugee Convention which we advocated. What is the government's response today to both calls? What about the extension of the list of safe countries? Minister-President Rutte said last month that he wanted to informally address the adaptation of the Refugee Treaty to his colleagues at European level. Just that: "informal." The CDA, in the person of Sybrand Buma, is working with the various national leaders of the political parties that are part of the EPP Group in the European Parliament. That is where the willingness has been found, but our Prime Minister does not go beyond a smile and the informal desire to raise this issue. Anyway, what came out of this? Is the Secretary of State prepared to take this seriously, particularly in the context of the Presidency of the European Union for the coming year? Does the government recognise that this is a necessity, do we want to provide security in future for people who flee war and violence? It is about keeping our safe haven safe and accessible, even in the future. Then the status of displaced persons. The cabinet has always been reluctant to respond to the CDA Group's call for the status of displaced persons to be introduced. What's the advantage of it, then asked? The name of this EU directive that has been incorporated into Dutch legislation already says it. Temporary protection in the event of mass influx of displaced persons and measures to promote a balance between Member States' efforts to receive and bear the consequences of receiving such persons. That was the name of this directive. The advantage of this directive is the temporary status, so that people can return to their homeland after the conflict has ended in order to help rebuild their country. Moreover, if several countries are to implement this directive, it would be an advantage for European countries to harmonise the duration of asylum status and to coordinate their possible extension. Does this harmonisation not appeal to the cabinet? But even if no agreement can be reached at European level, is it worth discussing this with the European countries which currently have the greatest attraction, namely Germany, the Netherlands and Sweden? I'd like an answer to that. The CDA Group calls on the government to do something about this structuralally rather than mopping with the crane open, which it now looks like. If the 2015 flows persist, in view of the chaos at the edges of Europe, that is not excluded, the government cannot afford to wait. I asked for a letter of amendment and a transfer of the financial consequences on all the subjects I mentioned before the beginning of the government's first term. I would very much like a response to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-3.u196	I suggest we suspend for lunch now.
