ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-24-tweedekamer-3.u1	Mr. Chairman. Last weekend, we were shocked to learn in the Algemeen Dagblad that 20,000 pensioners at the ABP were faced with a discount on their AOW up to 10%. This amount was intended to compensate for the lack of partner allowances for pensioners with a working partner. Only a few days before this was communicated by the ABP. According to the ABP, this is due to the fact that the Social Insurance Bank only provided the data of the pensioners concerned at a very late date. My questions to the Secretary of State on this matter are as follows. Is this true? What does she think of the fact that no less than 20,000 pensioners were faced with a discount on their AOW which amounts to €155, i.e. up to about 10%? How does the Secretary of State view the message that only a few days in advance has been communicated about this substantial discount? Is it true that the Social Insurance Bank provided the data at such a late hour? How does the Secretary of State assess the role of the Social Insurance Bank in this matter? Who's to blame now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-24-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. I thank Mr Krol for his questions. I have taken note of the reports on the expiry of the supplement to the ABP partner allowance. Like Mr Krol and, in my view, everyone here in the Chamber, I find this annoying for the people who, in the very short term, are faced with the collapse of the ABP supplement. However, the supplement to the ABP is an agreement made between the social partners. It is also up to the social partners and the ABP to decide to stop supplementing the partner allowance for those concerned. The ABP has its own policy on this. The choice of informing members or adjusting the pension scheme lies with the board of the pension fund. With regard to the exchange of data between the pension fund and the SVB, I would like to make the following point. I understand that good agreements have been made with the pension administrator of the ABP on the provision of the necessary data. In doing so, the agreed procedure has been followed neatly. I must also say that it has been clear for 20 years that the partner bonus is going to disappear for new people in the AOW. It is therefore really up to the pension fund to inform the participants about changes in their own scheme. That's not the job of the SVB.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-24-tweedekamer-3.u3	As is well known, a great deal has already gone wrong in the issue of the personal budget, which has still not been adequately resolved, and here too it has gone wrong. I think that's a bad thing. We may say that it is not the SVB's fault, but for people it sounds that way, especially given the answer of the ABP. On the website of the Sociale Verzekeringsbank it says: "There are 5 million customers counting on us. And they can rely on us." Does the Secretary of State consider that there is really no blame on the Social Insurance Bank? If that is the fault of the ABP, doesn't the Secretary of State think that at least the ABP could have done better? And what are we going to do to avoid this in the future? After all, it is the people themselves who say that they knew nothing and were told it at the last minute. If you suddenly have to turn in 10% of your income, it saves a decent sip on a drink.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-24-tweedekamer-3.u4	As I said, it is really up to the pension fund to inform the participants about changes in their own scheme. That's not the job of the SVB. The SVB has always been very neatly wrong with the ABP. The SVB also provides a thorough insight into all AOW data for people in the Netherlands. So it's really ABP.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-24-tweedekamer-3.u5	I think we're always trying to change the ball. It's a fact that the people weren't aware. What can we politicians do about it to ensure that this kind of communication is improved in the future? I think people have a right to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-24-tweedekamer-3.u6	I am pleased that Mr Krol has put it this way. It is, of course, about the fact that through this interaction, too, there is an awareness that every pension fund has a good relationship with its participants. The same applies to the ABP.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-24-tweedekamer-3.u7	In the letter from the ABP to the participants, the fund writes: the right to the supplement of the ABP is directly linked to the right to the AOW partner bonus of the SVB. Since that duty has been definitively repealed, the right to supplement the ABP is hereby abolished. The right has only expired for new cases, not for old ones. The ABP is kind enough to put the SVB on the spot. Would the Secretary of State address the ABP and say to the ABP that it could have done this differently and better? Will the Secretary of State say to the ABP that it was his decision to stop paying the €155? It is not a consequence of the law, which was adopted here 20 years ago without CDA support. It is simply a decision of the ABP that the fund now wants to frame the Secretary of State and the SVB.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-24-tweedekamer-3.u8	I can follow Mr Omtzigt very well, and I have just tried to say in neat terms that it is really up to the ABP to be with their participants. The ABP must properly inform the participants of the decisions taken by the ABP. I think I can answer Mr Omtzigt's question in full.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-24-tweedekamer-3.u9	In addition to Mr Omtzigt's question, this is a supplement which the ABP itself gives to its participants. I hope the ABP knows who gave it that supplement. I do not often say that it is more than 10%. I have examples in my inbox that these amounts are substantial. People have only recently become aware of this. I would like to have a slightly more explicit opinion from the Secretary of State and, if I may, also a discussion with Mr Blok, who is regularly negotiating the pension scheme, that this is not a way of communicating.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-24-tweedekamer-3.u10	In line with what I said earlier, the social partners around the ABP are indeed employers and employees. Mrs Vermeij addresses the cabinet and my colleague Mr Blok as employer in this matter. The communication at the ABP is a very important one. I will gladly address my colleague, Mr Blok.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-24-tweedekamer-3.u11	For the Acts I note that this is the Minister for Housing and National Service, Minister Blok.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-24-tweedekamer-3.u12	The Secretary of State is right to say that it is very annoying that these people have been given that discount. She says we're all gonna find that here. That's right. The Secretary of State saw that very well. Would she like to get in touch with the ABP administration and make sure that the 4 million ends up with the people who need to miss it now? The government is an employer within the ABP and thus already has half the votes. There's got to be some way to settle this, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-24-tweedekamer-3.u13	I understand that the ABP will not recover what has now come to the participants. Of course that's also up to ABP, but that's how I understood it. I'd think that's a decent way of doing it too, let me put it that way. Moreover, the management of the ABP, where employers and employees find each other, must monitor communication very closely. I've just underlined that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-24-tweedekamer-3.u14	I see that you are not satisfied, Mr Ulenbelt. There is also the possibility of asking supplementary questions in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-24-tweedekamer-3.u15	Perhaps it is good to say that the 4 million, which Mr Ulenbelt has just spoken about, is a one-time thing and is now with the participants for the month of January. I understand the ABP is not going to recover that $4 million. If Mr Ulenbelt means that this should be structural, I do not think that can be the issue. However, I would speak for the ABP and I cannot and will not do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-24-tweedekamer-3.u16	The 20,000 people involved have suddenly been cut back on their income. Of course you can't. We all find it unacceptable that this has been communicated at such short notice. The Secretary of State also regrets that this is happening. Mr Omtzigt's question was also in that direction. Of course, people must not be sent from the locker to the wall. We have heard all the agencies, including the ABP and the SVB, but that is not a solution. That is why I ask the Secretary of State if she is prepared to contact the chairman of the ABP, Mrs Wortmann-Kool, of the CDA, to ask her for clarification and to explain to the Chamber in writing as soon as possible what exactly she will do about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-24-tweedekamer-3.u17	In reply to the questions put by the other honourable Members, I have already said that I believe that the ABP is leading the way. In my view, this debate will also lead to a further reflection by the ABP on how to communicate in such cases. Everyone in this Chamber finds it particularly short notice for the people concerned. There can be no misunderstanding about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-24-tweedekamer-3.u18	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for coming to the Chamber and for the answers she has given.
