ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u1	I have already welcomed the Minister for Economic Affairs. I call Mrs Vos.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. It is nice to have another debate with Minister Kamp today on the important subject of energy and everything that has to do with it. We are discussing the EU Energy Efficiency Directive. Energy saving is often the most effective way to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and save raw materials, while saving costs. So there is a huge win-win-win situation. And there is still a great deal to gain from energy saving. You can take quite a few measures that you earn back very quickly. It is called "low-hanging fruit" but also those low-hanging fruits are often not picked yet. It is therefore important that public authorities play an active role in this area, with incentives, financial roots and sticks, obligations, enforcement and information. With the European Energy Efficiency Directive, EU Member States have jointly agreed on energy savings, to which each country will have to contribute. This is an obligation which cannot be avoided, which creates clarity, inspires action and creates a level playing field. In the beginning, however, the Dutch cabinet was not at all enthusiastic about this idea of a common binding agreement in the field of energy saving. It has tried to get this directive off the table, by the way inspired by the House of Representatives. When it turned out that this resistance did not stand a chance, the Netherlands went along, and it worked for greater freedom of choice in fulfilling the obligations of the Directive. The legislation implementing this directive is now before us. The Minister states, and this is the case, that the energy agreement is the most important weapon in the implementation of the directive. The Cabinet indicates that an average of 1.5% of energy savings per year is sufficient to meet the objectives of the Directive. According to the cabinet, this amounts to 100 PJ of extra energy savings, the agreement of the energy agreement. The Minister has full confidence in successful implementation and achievement of the goals. He therefore did not consider it necessary to implement the Van Ojik motion of September 2014, adopted in the House of Representatives, which asked for additional energy saving measures. He said that he is already doing enough and that it is already happening with the energy agreement, despite the wake-up call in the 2014 National Energy Exploratory, which shows that, on the basis of the concrete measures and plans, only 60% of the energy saving target will be achieved by 2020. Where does the Minister base his optimism and until when does he give himself time to believe in a happy ending? When does the moment come when he's gonna intervene, if that's what it proves necessary? This year there will be another National Energy Exploratory. It's coming in September. If this energy exploration again warns that the 2020 target is not going to be met, and that more concrete measures are needed, will the Minister come up with an additional package? I would like a commitment from the Minister on this point. We have a number of critical questions about the implementation of the directive, first of all about energy saving in industry and in industry. The ordinary companies have to comply with the Environmental Management Act, which requires a company to take any saving measure that pays back within five years. Of course, that is a strong point in the law, but enforcement is another matter and it is grossly disappointing. I know from my own experience, when I was alderman in Amsterdam, how complicated it is. When the college announced that it was really going to maintain, local and regional business was on its back feet. We met directly before the courts because it had to be proved that there were indeed many more measures to be taken that could be recovered within five years. In short, it was quite a challenge in my period to achieve enforcement. So it is very good that the cabinet now also says through the energy agreement: we are going to make a list of recognised measures that a company can take. This will at least reduce that type of legal struggle and bureaucracy. That's an important plus. There will also be a verification of energy savings, whereby an inspector will examine, on the basis of the list of approved measures, whether a company is doing everything it can. Pilots will take place this year and an evaluation will follow. My question to the Minister is: is he prepared to make the energy saving verification system mandatory by an independent inspector? Is he also prepared to step up the pace of adoption of the approved measures? The larger companies are covered by the MEE Covenant. It is the companies that are covered by the ETS, the emissions trading system. These companies must draw up a plan for energy saving in which they indicate what they are going to do about it. If they do that properly, they get a tax advantage. Until recently, this advantage was even paid out before it was clear whether they were actually doing what was promised. Fortunately, the cabinet is now putting an end to this practice. Research has shown that 80 out of 110 companies participating in this agreement did not fully implement their energy saving programme. My group's question is, therefore, what the cabinet is going to do to ensure that compliance really gets off the ground, in addition to the correct change that you will only get the tax advantage if you have proved that you are doing what you have promised. I would like an answer from the Minister to the question of what he is going to do to ensure that the savings are made. The National Energy Exploratory (NEV) showed that savings in industry will be much slower over the next decade. The group of companies we are talking about must together generate 9 petajoule additional savings. That was agreed in the energy agreement. But what are the concrete agreements that are being made? I always hear that it is extremely difficult and that the implementation of this agreement does not really come off the ground. Does the Minister put his hand in the fire that this saving is actually going to come? After all, energy savings in industry are often still cheaper than in the built environment. So the real question is: what are we waiting for? This has to happen. The ETS is not entirely a subject of discussion, but it is, of course, a major concern. CO prices are far too low. There is a huge surplus of allowances. The incentive for saving and renewable energy is systematically undermined. If we are to achieve success in terms of savings, then something must be done about this system. What is the Cabinet going to do to bring it back to life? I have a general question about enforcement. Reports show that a genuinely good enforcement of all measures laid down in the law and agreed upon could lead to significant savings in energy saving. There is even talk of 35 petajoule. What is the cabinet going to do to really strengthen enforcement? What concrete measures will be taken? What will the government's effort be to do this? Within the energy agreement, it was also agreed that already in 2016 a significant part of the 100 petajoule must have been collected, namely 35 petajoule. Will the Minister make an assessment of the need for additional measures on the basis of this year's national energy exploration report? By the way, I was just asking about that. The point is that we know for sure that measures are being taken and that we are going to achieve that 35 petajoule agreement in 2016 anyway. On this point, I would very much like clarification from the Minister. I have a few comments and questions about the built environment. There are going to be two funds, which is very important: two funds with money to stimulate energy savings in the housing sector. There is a fund for the private owner and there is a fund for landlords in the social sector. It is a pity that little progress has been made so far. There are still few concrete results. Does the Minister agree with us that an acceleration in this area is really necessary in order to achieve substantial energy savings quickly? My group points out another point. A lot of people just want security. They want to know where they stand with their homes and what they will soon have to do. We wonder whether it is not already really necessary to introduce more regulation in this area and impose obligations on people, but, of course, in conjunction with financial incentives, support and tax benefits. GroenLinks believes that this will lead to much more damage. For example, see the whole discussion about the energy labels of the homes. This is also in the area of the Minister's colleague, Mr Blok. However, I would like to address the cabinet. In fact, the EU requires through the directive to make clear with a label where the buyer or the landlord is in need of any property that is to be sold or rented. However, the Netherlands does not introduce that obligation. All owners have received a statement in the mailbox with the label stating what the property meets, but there is a lot of criticism from all kinds of independent experts. They say: it's quite random, because there's just been a look at the year of construction and there's no further look at what's already happened in that house. In short, what people get in their mailbox is actually a very unclear paper for them. The question is whether the cabinet should not really comply with that directive and make it mandatory that when you sell your property, you deliver your label to the latest state of affairs. The same applies to rentals. The label should also be established by an independent institution, which does so on the basis of the state of the property. I'm just taking a little trip to Groningen. I think a lot of heat and therefore gas can be saved in our Dutch homes. Then we are really going to help the Groningen instead of just six months, as the Minister promised. Gas demand will have to fall enormously in the Netherlands. We can do that, and it is very unfortunate that we do not have these opportunities. CE Delft produced an extremely interesting report on behalf of the Top Consortium for Knowledge and Innovation in the built environment in October 2014, which outlines various transition scenarios until 2030, including a transition scenario for the built environment. This report shows that with a substantial investment of EUR 2.3 billion per year, an enormous amount of energy can be saved every year. Interestingly, this boost also leads to a huge gross employment effect of 24,000 working years on average, an improvement in trade by an average of 1.7% and an improvement in gross national product by an average of 0.7% per year, or EUR 4.3 billion. It is also expected to save EUR 20 billion in energy imports during this period. These are figures where you think: this is so interesting that the cabinet should pick this up. Does this not mean that we need to tighten up our entire energy saving programme considerably? I would like to hear a response from the Minister to this report and ask him whether this is not a reason to substantially strengthen the energy saving policy in the built environment. What about the additional measures for energy saving in traffic? What concrete new measures does the government envisage under the Energy Agreement and the Energy Efficiency Agreements? Finally, I would like to ask the Minister about some of the effects of our energy taxation system. As long as we're talking about that real energy transition, there's something weird in the system as it is now. In my group's view, a number of parties are hardly encouraged to make the most of energy saving. I would like to mention an example of which I heard the other day. It is strange that IKEA, a large chain in the Netherlands, which belongs to the large consumers, pays hardly any energy tax on the highest disc and in any case pays much less than the Dutch competitors. Those competitors are often the smaller furniture stores and retail chains. In my opinion, IKEA has an unfair competitive advantage in the Netherlands because he happens to be a very large chain that allows large consumer advantage. It is no longer a question of saving energy or not. In advance, the smaller shops are already lagging behind compared to IKEA. That's a crazy situation, isn't it? I'd like to hear the Minister's opinion on that. Isn't this reason, alongside many other examples, to take a very fundamental look at the energy tax system and to look at how we can achieve fair incentives that really lead to energy savings for everyone? In short, there is still a world to be won in terms of energy saving. If there is anything to be gained, it is here, in relation to the environment, employment and major cost savings. It makes us less dependent on gas and oil from abroad. In addition, we can also meet the Groningen people. I ask the cabinet to increase its ambitions, but I would also like to wait for the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u3	Mr. Chairman. We are discussing today in this house the amendment of the EU Energy Efficiency Directive Implementation Act, the 1998 Electricity Act and the Gas Act and the Heat Act. Before going into the legislative proposal, I would like to make some reflections on environmental issues and energy supply. The world's population is increasing rapidly and in line with this also the energy needs. Alternatives or so-called "sustainable energy sources" have been promoted and heavily subsidised for years. The costs for society are enormous. As a result, our competitive position is increasingly at stake. In addition, energy costs for citizens and society will continue to increase. The question on which the belief in renewable energy is based can no longer be discussed in reasonable terms. Politicians, the environmental lobbies and the massively subsidised environmental industry have dug into irresistible positions. Some critical capacity of these stakeholders with regard to their own views on the feasibility of increasing the share of renewable energy in total energy needs is lacking. Criticism or questioning on this subject is silenced or swept under the table from a moral superiority attitude, with sometimes very questionable arguments. An example of this is the Nobel Prize winner and economist Paul Kruger, who says that anyone who denies global warming must be punished for this in the afterlife. The Observer columnist Nick Cohen says about climate critics that they are aligned with Holocaust connoisseurs. In this climate, the environmental church is not open to reason and is no longer open to fossil energy sources that can or cannot help to control the energy supply problems in the future. Shell top man Van Beurden recently noted that new energy sources such as wind and solar have taken 30 years to cover less than 1% of the energy needs. In his view, fossil fuel production should continue to grow because the share of alternative energy sources is far from being able to meet global and increasing energy needs. If the climate lobby continues to persist in its current, almost religious fanaticism in terms of sustainability and wind and solar energy, the burden will increase astronomically. The sad thing about all this is that the efforts we are making, particularly locally in the Netherlands, but also in Europe, are not achieving anything in terms of reducing CO emissions. CO and other substances do not stop at our land border. The debate on environmental issues must and can only be conducted and resolved in a global, international context. Otherwise, all attempts to save energy and reduce pollution are without effect. We can think in the Netherlands that we are on the right track. We often feel very good about this too, because look at us in the field of environmental problems, but in relation to the global problem, what we are doing locally in terms of reducing environmental taxes is quite pointless. Following this brief consideration, I would like to make a few comments on the legislative proposal before us. We all know that this has not led to a debate in the Lower House. However, a number of political groups, including the PVV Group, have felt that they should devote a number of words to this. The present legislative proposal is aimed at implementing a European Energy Efficiency Directive. The aim of the Directive is to achieve 20% energy savings on energy consumption by 2020 compared to its use in 2010. When reading the EU Directive, the large number of mandatory provisions immediately stands out. Member States are required to renovate 3% of central government buildings annually and to make them more energy efficient. Brussels obliges us each year to achieve 1.5% energy efficiency for end-users. In particular, the Directive requires large companies to carry out an energy audit every four years. And so on and so on. The PVV recognises the importance of energy efficiency and energy saving, as long as this is done on a voluntary basis and without government pressure. Energy savings should be fun instead of just expensive and mandatory. As a result of the implementation of the EU directive, we are being put at a cost in the Netherlands, creating another costly bureaucratic layer, and Brussels is also taking away a piece of Dutch sovereignty on this issue. My group therefore concludes that the EU directive on energy efficiency is unnecessary, too expensive and too binding. It will therefore vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u4	Mr. Chairman. As has just been recalled, the present legislative proposal is intended to implement a European directive in our Dutch legislation. The aim of the directive has also been mentioned: 20% savings in energy consumption by 2020. Energy saving is an important part of making our energy supply more sustainable. That goal and the road to it are very important for the PvdA Group and are warmly shared. In fact, it is so important for my group that the energy savings envisaged are really achieved that my group is happy to discuss the implementation of the measures with the Minister today. The recent situation in Groningen gives all the more reason to work on the sustainability of energy production, to switch to renewable energy production and at the same time to achieve savings in energy use and thus to reduce gas abstraction in the long term. In order to implement the Directive, not all parts require a legislative amendment. For example, Article 8 of the Directive contains obligations in the field of energy audits. These serve to provide information on current energy use and to identify cost-effective savings. So that's different from what Mr Van Beek just said. It is really intended that this saving will pay off in the long term. These energy audits should help large companies, SMEs and households to effectively implement the recommendations. Some steps have already been taken to implement the energy audits. There have been agreements. Information is provided through matters such as the energy label, Mrs Vos, has asked if this is going to work out perfectly well. In order to fully implement the Directive, we read on page 6 of the explanatory memorandum, a number of additional rules are included in the Environmental Action Decision. That's what got us thinking in the preliminary investigation. Article 2.15 of the Environmental Action Decision already requires all energy-saving measures to be taken with a payback period of five years or less. So the PvdA group asked how many violations have been detected on this point. We had a strong impression that the competent authorities did not give priority to monitoring compliance with this obligation. From her role as former alderman, Mrs Vos has also indicated what the competent authorities sometimes come up against. The reply we received on 31 October indicated that the government did not have any figures available. I would now like to ask the Minister whether it is now known whether one or more offences have been detected by the competent authority. We know that the Empire is not the competent authority here. We also ask what the Minister thinks about the enforcement of compulsory energy audits. Could they still be promoted? Ultimately, the promotion of cost-effective energy saving measures will help to achieve real compliance with the obligation, i.e. real enforcement: not only to set rules, but also to monitor them. Is the Minister prepared to agree to report on this aspect of implementation in the planned review of the Energy Agreement in 2016? So I am talking about enforcement, about cost-effective energy saving measures. On behalf of the PvdA Group, I would like to ask a few more questions about the study on the potential for the application of high-efficiency cogeneration and efficient district heating, which results from Article 14 of the Directive. The explanatory memorandum states that this study is carried out by the government and relevant interbranch organisations and is ready by 31 December 2015 at the latest. I would like to ask the Minister, on behalf of the PvdA Group, whether it is possible to include in that study that the replacement of gas networks seems to mean that gas is used as the main source of heating for the first 40 to 50 years after the replacement. If you're gonna build a new gas grid like that, you're gonna want to use it, too. These gas networks have been jointly paid by us, socialised. That is not the case with heat grids. Eventually, we want houses heated. Heat grids are an alternative. A switch from gas to heat has a number of financial consequences for the business case. According to the PvdA Group, the Groningen earthquakes make it appropriate to involve more than just financial considerations in a choice between gas and heat for heating buildings. In the text I prepared last week, I had the question of whether the Minister agrees with us that it is about more things than just money. We have seen this morning that the decision to at least withdraw less gas until 1 July really shows that the government is making more things than just financial; a compliment on our part. Perhaps the Minister can tell us how he looks at this in the slightly longer term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u5	I also took note of that appointment. Mrs King is now explaining it nicely, but does she think it is a genuinely content-based measure? Or is that just very useful for six months to keep everyone politically out of the wind and then look further, where perhaps the VVD and the PvdA are completely apart again when it comes to the gas drilling in Groningen? That is what I hear cynics say in the comments this morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u6	I don't intend to look very cynical at it. Last week I introduced myself to ask whether the government wanted to include other considerations than finance in the decision on gas withdrawal. I now see that this is indeed the case. Mr Van Boxtel's question seems to imply that it is simply a political consideration and that they will be doing things differently in six months' time. I don't think so. I have faith in the government. I think I would like to hear the Minister's reaction that this is a signal that the government is also using a system other than gas for heating houses and that you are also taking other considerations than money into account. I am actually very hopeful about it and I hope that Mr Van Boxtel will do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u7	Do I understand correctly from Mrs King that in fact she expects that six months will not last for six months, but that there should actually be a longer, permanent low-gas withdrawal?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u8	The PvdA Group in the First Chamber sees that the withdrawal of gas now has such negative consequences that we really need to think about alternatives. Urban heating and heating networks can be an alternative. Of course, you have to be able to build it. For that, the financial business case is very important, but it's not just about money. That is exactly what we are trying to bring forward here. The decision that the government has now taken gives us a great deal of hope for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u9	In fact, I hear Mrs Koning say that in the future there must be permanent, structural reduction in gas from the soil of Groningen and that this is also possible. Is my observation correct?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u10	Houses should be able to be heated. I think this step may be continued, but I think the Minister can say more about it than I can. Houses need heating. Heat grids are really a serious alternative, but you have to be able to build them. Mr. Chairman. This legislative proposal is designed to implement Directive 2012/27/EU on energy efficiency. On two parts of the directive, namely the enforcement of energy audits, in fact the implementation of energy saving measures and the study and work on district heating, I have put a few questions to the Minister on behalf of the PvdA Group. We are now waiting for an answer with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u11	Mr. Chairman. The Minister writes in the explanatory memorandum to this legislative proposal implementing the Directive: "The objective of the Directive is to achieve the European target of 20% energy savings on energy consumption by 2020 compared to consumption by 2010." When I first read that, still naive, I was not aware of the cryptic content of that sentence and I thought we were going to reduce energy consumption by 20%. No, unfortunately that is not the case. It merely means, in short, that the increase in energy consumption must fall short of economic growth. I fear that the planet and our children's children will not make it, unless we continue to stagger in constant economic stagnation or do it soon with large-scale circular forms of energy generation. Relevant is that large-scale investment in circular energy generation can partly pull us out of the growth tagnation swamp. But, yes, that requires wisdom and courage. I would like to hear the Minister's views on this later. In the meantime, I do not hesitate to reinforce the critical questions raised by the previous speakers, sometimes by repeating them. Part of this energy discussion is conducted in terms of petajoules. I've just been told by colleague Elzinga that 1 joule is the energy it takes to lift an apple a meter. A petajoule is the energy equivalent of lifting 1000 trillion apples. Then we know what we're talking about. Shortly after the Committee for Economic Affairs submitted a further preliminary report on this bill, the first National Energy Exploratory (NEV) published by the ECN, the PBL and the CBS appeared in early October 2014. Many of my questions have been answered in the meantime, but I am not happy with that knowledge. The rapporteurs proposed, among other things, that: Firstly, with average economic growth just above 1%, energy consumption will change between -6% and +4% by 2020. Secondly, "The Dutch objective under the European Energy Efficiency Directive is unlikely to be met in defined policies. If the envisaged policy is also taken into account, the objective is expected to be within reach." Thirdly: "The goal of the Energy Agreement of 100 petajoules additional savings by 2020 will not be achieved with the now well-known measures in both policy variants." Fourthly, in the case of renewable (or circular) energy, if the planned policy were to be implemented, its share would be 12.4% in 2020, within a range of 10.5% to 13.0%. On this point, the rapporteurs state: "The Dutch renewable energy target agreed at European level (14% in 2020) is outside the ranges mentioned." So here too, the goal is not achieved. I ask the Minister to endorse these four forecasts. If this is the case, I ask what the government will do about it at what time. If this is not the case, I would ask him, firstly, what kind of counter-information does he have that the rapporteurs do not have and, secondly, whether he shares this information with the rapporteurs, where appropriate. Thirdly, if he has shared this information with the rapporteurs, I ask him what their reply was and where we can find the reply from the rapporteurs. I would also ask the Minister to say that he suspects that the objectives of the directive could be barely met, or that the government believes that it is taking an active action in this area with a view to our children's children. Wouldn't it be pervasive to maintain very broad positive margins? To conclude this section, I have one more point that is connected with it. The NEV calculates in terms of objective realisation for the years 2020 and 2030. To our request for information on annual savings targets to be achieved, the further reply on the then newly released NEV states: "The NEV did not look at savings rates, but only at the cumulative target expressed in petajoules. There are therefore no figures as to the percentages to be achieved in the coming years in order to achieve the cumulative objective of the Directive." My group asks the Minister to formulate annual targets and to inform the Chambers annually about their implementation. I know that a mid-term review is foreseen in 2016, but I would ask the Minister to have a more continuous report, given the interests involved, so that timely adjustment is possible. I now turn briefly to the nature of the bill. As mentioned above, the explanatory statement states: "The objective of the Directive is to achieve the European target of 20% energy savings on energy consumption by 2020 compared to consumption in 2010'. Nevertheless, the legislative proposal is limited to matters such as recording energy consumption and administrative requirements relating, inter alia, to billing information and energy cost estimates. Of course registration is important to know whether or not the goals are being achieved. Can I see that the legislative proposal is essentially or even entirely limited to this? If so, why is the stated objective and the political instruments not included in the legislative proposal? What does this mean, according to the Minister, for the hardness of the Dutch parliamentary control of his policy in this matter? Finally, I would like to comment on the entry into force of the legislative proposal. The government will understand that, following the debacle with the WNT reduction ceiling Act adopted on 22 December, the Chamber will now pay close attention to the provisions on the entry into force of legislative proposals. In this case, in the preliminary report on Article V, my group asked which articles or parts of them the government intends to bring into force later than immediately after the First Chamber has accepted the bill. The government replied in its reply of 1 September 2014: "Not all implementing legislation based on this bill is expected to be ready at the time the bill enters into force. Some provisions on the design of energy invoices and the establishment of consumption and cost statements for energy users will therefore enter into force at a later date." This is supposed to be big business, but not big money. However, I would like to know whether, five months later, those implementing rules are ready and, if not, why not. I would like to point out that the directive of 25 October 2012 dates back to this directive. That was over three years and three months ago. The directive should have been implemented eight months ago, on 5 June 2014. If the government does not comply with the rules, how can it expect, for example, that in this case the signatories of the energy agreement are bound by them? I'd like the Minister's comment on some of this. I'd like to await the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u12	Mr. Chairman. The Energy Efficiency Directive follows a broader package of measures to minimise climate change. Every year, the use of fossil energy brings global CO emissions to record levels, partly because these fuels are still often subsidised. More than 85% of the total energy comes from oil, coal and gas, compared with 1.1% from wind and 0.2% from solar energy. Emerging economies such as Brazil and China will increase energy demand by as much as 37% over the next 25 years, according to the International Energy Agency (IEA). Over the past ten years, extensive research has been carried out into the impact of global greenhouse gas emissions on Dutch society. The government has already commissioned more than 25 vulnerability analyses and reports on climate change; it is an entire industry in itself. These reports tend to focus on specific policy areas, but all these reports strongly highlight the need for greening. On the basis of these studies, several agreements and agreements have been concluded at national and international level. The latest example is, of course, the energy agreement. However, it is important that the government adheres to the commitments to prevent the depletion of natural resources and raw materials and to reduce emissions of harmful substances and thus maintain a viable climate for future generations. It is also an excellent opportunity to make the European Union self-sufficient. By generating more renewable energies, we can limit our energy dependence on unstable and authoritarian regimes as much as possible. In addition, as it turned out this weekend, we can reduce the rate of gas drilling in Groningen. A compliment, by the way, from my side to Minister Kamp. After all, he goes to Groningen every time and confronts the people. However, it is becoming clear to the whole of the Netherlands that people are being seriously affected and that it is really a problem for them. I am pleased that the measures have been taken. I would also say to Mrs Koning of the PvdA Group that I like the halving in itself, but I do hope that it will lead to something and not that it will prove to be a measure that will just as conveniently bridge an election date. Technological developments in the field of renewable energy offer many opportunities. Think of the award-winning Stella solar car, the family car that runs on solar energy, designed by students from TU Eindhoven. My group therefore believes that these opportunities should be tackled with both hands. Although the EU is still one of the top three CO emitters, European energy policy is slowly starting to bear fruit. CO emissions in Europe have been falling for years and renewable sources are gaining ground. In the vast majority of Europe, renewable energy already accounts for more than 10% of total energy consumption. According to Eurostat, this percentage is even above 50% in Norway and Sweden. Unfortunately, my group has to note that the Netherlands is far behind in this area, with only 5% consumption of renewable energy. As a result, the cabinet is miles away from the ambition to use 14% renewable energy by 2020. Moreover, this objective is already not ambitious compared to that of other European countries. It is not for nothing that the Netherlands, of all EU countries, is at the second last place on the annual climate ranking list. There is therefore criticism from different angles. At the end of 2012, the General Court expressed its concern about the climate policy of the Netherlands, which is far from being linked to European developments. The then Secretary of State for Infrastructure and the Environment did not fully agree. He pointed out that the Netherlands is seen both by the European Commission and by many EU Member States as an advanced country in its strategic and practical approach to climate change adaptation. My group would like to hear from the Minister whether this observation is still applicable and on which the positive image of Dutch climate policy is based. My group is particularly curious as to whether this strategic and practical approach will lead to the 14% renewable energy by 2020, the agreement made in the Energy Agreement. But that hole seems unbridgeable without any additional measures. However, the Minister would like to wait for an evaluation report of the Energy Agreement in October 2016. Is the Minister aware that postponing measures makes adaptation to climate change more expensive and more difficult? What kind of financial resources does the Minister have if it turns out that the Netherlands is lagging behind schedule? My group also has a few questions about biomass. It is important that the biomass grant goes to projects that are certified sustainable. This demand is also mentioned in the energy agreement. My group has received signals that energy companies do not have to meet the certification requirements. I refer to Het Financieele Dagblad, in which on 12 January the article "Second Chamber is dealing with sustainable by-products of biomass." Can the Minister clarify this? Can he guarantee that grants will not be paid to projects that are not certified sustainable? Does he believe that this would accelerate the transition to a more biobased economy? In addition to concluding energy agreements, the government could impose a heavier burden on the consumption of fossil fuels. According to the IMF, this is the most effective way to deal with environmental damage in energy prices. At the same time, this tax can promote the use of renewable energy. Does a higher tax on fossil fuels include options as far as the Minister is concerned? Or does he leave this whole thing to Secretary of State Wiebes for the new Tax Plan? The directive we are discussing today aims at achieving the European target of 20% energy savings by 2020 compared to consumption in 2010. The Netherlands has committed itself to reducing final energy consumption by an average of 1.5% per year by 2020 and by 100 petajoules. The pace of energy saving in the Netherlands was around 1.1% per year between 2010 and 2013. Due to the agreements in the Energy Agreement, the pace according to the National Energy Exploratory (NEV) will be on average 1.2% in the coming years. This is a particularly slight increase and not enough to meet the savings targets, the researchers conclude. Does the Minister share the findings of the National Energy Exploratory? If so, does the Minister consider that the Netherlands should make up for the delays? How's he gonna get there? The Minister expects the energy saving rate to rise to around 1.2% to 1.7% per year. Can the Minister explain what this expectation is based on? The researchers of the NEV do not have this expectation. The energy label should be an important incentive for homeowners to make their home more energy efficient. However, the introduction of the provisional label is accompanied by problems. I refer here to the broadcast of Kassa last night, which caused a great deal of suffering. The provisional label is often classified as "amateuristic" because only the year of construction and type of home has been looked at. Does this provisional energy label meet the requirements of the European Commission? What additional criteria are used to establish a definitive label? My group is not yet satisfied that we are going to comply with the EU agreements with the current policy and that the cabinet has the agreements high on the list of priorities. The lack of energy savings will be more than 40 petajoule compared to the objective with the existing measures. The heat vision has to fill this hole, but there is still little clarity about this. That is why it is good to see how efficiency can be achieved within the current agreements. For example, Article 6 of the Directive contains rules on public procurement. In the note following the report, the Minister writes that this obligation is fulfilled by the Sustainable Procurement Policy Framework. According to the explanatory memorandum to this directive, the government has been purchasing even 100% sustainable since 2010. Six civil society organisations, including VNO-NCW, indicate that the government cannot deliver this percentage. According to them, the gap between word and deed is worrying and the government opts for economical rather than green. They believe that sustainable purchasing is becoming an increasingly lower priority, which is not only bad for the environment but also costs the government millions. They therefore advocate a one-stop shop for sustainable procurement with a clear allocation of tasks and responsibilities. How does the Minister respond to this message? What does he think of the proposal to create a one-stop shop for sustainable procurement and thus address the fragmentation of procurement? A number of highly polluting coal plants are still in operation in the Netherlands. What measures does the government take to make these power stations more energy efficient? What is the government doing, for example, to make better use of the heat released by coal-fired power stations? Are there other ways to make coal plants more energy efficient? In addition, my group sees a role for the government in stimulating innovation projects. The search for new sources, the better storage of renewable energy and the more efficient establishment of energy networks are essential for the longer term energy transition. The blue power station on the Afsluitdijk, with energy from osmosis, is a good example of an innovative project. However, many projects seem to be stranded due to a lack of funding. Does the Minister explain, for example, that banks are reluctant to invest in renewable energy? What is the Minister's view of a government guarantee scheme? Such a scheme could provide greater security for financiers, thus increasing the number of innovative projects. The introduction of a feed-in rate could have a similar effect. Does the Minister feel that this measure should be taken? My group is concerned about the progress of the Netherlands in the climate issue, but also has some cause for optimism. Tens of thousands of individuals have switched to solar energy in recent years, we see more and more electric cars on the Dutch roads and there is a growing number of zero on the meter houses. Of course, some regulations and taxes.................................................................................................................................................................................................. Energy efficiency must be given high priority, not only in the public sector, but especially in the case of architects, energy companies and homeowners. With a clear long-term vision and greater certainty, the cabinet can draw these parties over the line. The International Energy Agency expects the price of solar energy to halve in the next 20 years. Innovations also make other renewable energy sources increasingly cheaper. Moreover, the price of renewable energy fluctuates less than the price of oil, although it is now, of course, pleasantly low again, and renewable energy provides a higher degree of self-sufficiency. D66 therefore believes that the energy transition will not only improve the climate, but can also make a valuable contribution to our economy. My group awaits the Minister's response with great interest, but would like to ask him to respond to the following. Yesterday, in a large opening article of the Dutch Financial Journal, it was stated that the tax advantages of green investments are under attack. I assume that the Minister will involve this issue with Mr Wiebes, Secretary of State for Finance, in the revision of the Tax Plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u13	There is an increasing energy demand in the world. To what extent does Mr Van Boxtel think that we will be able to absorb them in the future with so-called renewable energy? Or do we shoot ourselves in the foot by making it all very expensive and probably technically impossible to achieve the objectives?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u14	Mr Van Beek, we're pulling right on the other side of the rope. You say we shouldn't do anything for a while, because the rest of the world is still making a mess of it. My reasoning is: if we start doing something about it, perhaps the rest of the world will follow. I think that is a more sensible attitude. Your reasoning is, in fact, that there is a great deal of terrible human trafficking in the Third World and that is why we should not do anything about it here. That was actually the core of your input just before the PVV. I really have a whole different setup. I assume that in the coming years we will still need fossil energy, but that we will also have to make a real turn to keep this earth viable in the longer term and continue to provide sufficient energy for future generations. You are much more on the line: I am looking at it at the moment, I am not concerned at what is going to happen in the years to come and as long as other countries do nothing, we do not have to do anything. That is not my political stance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u15	That is clearly the view of Mr Van Boxtel. I also stated in my speech that the environmental problem, as we know it, is mainly on a global scale. If, with all our efforts in Europe, we do not have a level playing field in relation to regions and agreements cannot be made internationally, we give ourselves a wonderful feeling. Look what we are doing! Oh, but that doesn't help. It's pointless.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u16	No, I don't agree with you. It's absolutely not pointless. It is always good if the modern economies do something when the United States and Europe do something. You see what they do in the United States with shifting to shale gas. Ten or fifteen years ago, the country was still an energy importer and now again an exporter. There, too, huge innovations are being promoted. We in Europe can do the same. I have mentioned a few good examples. We could perhaps do a lot more with energy from water and from tides. This country has shown on all these fronts that it can innovate tremendously in this area. We could then help other areas of the world to sometimes "leapfrog": to switch to new forms at once. This has also been done with other examples, for example in telecommunications. You see people in Africa now using a mobile phone to trade, when they never had to make the years of investment in all kinds of big, expensive cable networks. I would just like to point out that I find your attitude an attitude of: after me the flood. I'd rather we just stop that flood. I'm not a doomthinker. I'm not going anywhere with the judges you mentioned in your speech. I am not from that school at all, but I am truly convinced that if we use full energy to develop and use alternative energy sources, we will be of enormous service to this earth and to our future generations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u17	Finally, a very short...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u18	Yes, finally, Mr Van Beek.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u19	I am encouraged that Mr Van Boxtel and Mr D66 see other fuels, whether fossil or not, as a necessary source to meet our energy needs in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u20	If you have listened carefully to my answer, have you heard that I am not so naive to say: will we stop with oil and gas tomorrow? You can't do that. However, the urgency to make covers can be more strongly stimulated. That is what I am addressing the cabinet to, and that is what I am calling this minister in his capacity in this debate, and that is what I really think is 'noblesse obligation'. You will know that oil will end sometime and gas will not go on forever. You will also see our own problems in the Groningen region that need to experience urgency. And then I'm not gonna hide behind the theorem: yes, but in other parts of the world they don't do anything about it. No, we just have a duty of our own to make new successes. I see good examples of this, which I have all mentioned. There is also a lot of innovation in this country, but it can be even faster and even harder. This will have to be done in good consultation with the major industries in this country, including the polluting ones. Look at what Germany does. That country has taken far more stringent measures on the energy dossier than we have. We are still at the bottom and I just don't like that for the Netherlands. We must have the ambition to get higher on that ranking, even when it comes to energy renewal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u21	Mr. Chairman. Let me make a few preliminary remarks. I received a number of carefully appreciated comments on the decision-making on gas extraction in Groningen. However, the suggestion was also made, particularly by Mr Van Boxtel, and I do not think it should be an election stunt so that in six months' time it all goes back to normal. If you want to hit me as a politician, you have to say things like that. There is no way that, when I deal with the problem in Groningen, I'm going to look at what kind of election stunts could be taken out of it. There are tens and tens of thousands of people who are very concerned about a problem that has been going on for years and will continue to play for years and which concerns their own home and environment. It is a problem that remains and with which the government also struggles. It is, of course, unthinkable that you, as a politician, should deal with this as suggested unintentionally by Mr Van Boxtel. I'm well aware of the relationship between natural gas extraction and earthquakes. I am in the process of reducing the level of natural gas extraction, which was 47 billion m in 2012 and 54 billion m in the following year, to 42.5 billion m. A year later, I will reduce it to 39.4 billion m. Now we are going to see on 1 July next whether it should be 35 or 39.4 billion m. I have already announced that before 1 January 2015 we are going to look at whether it is justified to move to a new system, which would result in an average of 30 billion m per year, but where you do have large fluctuations from year to year. I need to find out what the safety effects of that are. So I am in a consistent line of action to do what I believe is necessary for the inhabitants of Groningen. I wouldn't dare do it any other way. I wouldn't dare pull election stunts on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u22	I am pleased with this response. I also said that it was the cynical comments I heard on the radio this morning. It wasn't my own words. I think it would be a good idea to exchange this in any public debate. I have no doubt whatsoever of the integrity of this minister, and he knows it. I am concerned that this affects a lot of sentiments. Not only is it important to reduce the level, but also the way in which the cabinet, and indeed all of us, have been held to meet the people in their suffering. As the Minister knows, I also work permanently with one leg in Groningen and in another way I have to deal with it all the time. I am only pleased that it has been refuted in this way, so that those cynical commentators can stay away.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u23	I thank Mr Van Boxtel for that opportunity. I think it is right that the spokesmen have brought it up, because they are representatives of the people, and this affects the people. Then it is right that I should be addressed on this occasion. The safety aspect of natural gas extraction has been treated in such a way for many years that we have not been sufficiently prepared for the situation there. The safety aspect is first and foremost, but security of supply also deserves attention. Of course, it would be a bad thing if we were to take measures now which would suddenly result in a build-up of setbacks that electricity production would not be able to go ahead and that some of the houses in the country would no longer be heated. That would also be unacceptable. So that is also a form of safety. In addition to security, I have to keep an eye on security of supply. Nor can I be expected to completely ignore the effects on the state budget. A reduction to 39.4 billion m will cost 0.7 billion in the current financial year. Any reduction to 35 billion m will cost an additional billion in the current financial year. I myself estimate that the impact of the reduction in gas prices on the budget is between 1.5 and 2 billion a year. And I am talking about the current budget. I'm not saying that's my first priority. It is precisely not, because security is the first priority, and then the security of supply comes. Yet I am just expected to take note of all the relevant things and to weigh them up. This information is part of that. Mr Van Boxtel spoke critically about what the Netherlands is doing about renewable energy. He mentioned the 4% in the Netherlands and the 50% in the Scandinavian countries. Mr Van Boxtel may know the Scandinavian countries better than I do. You have big height differences and lots of water. You use these height differences and that water to generate renewable energy. That is why they have a lot of renewable energy there. We don't have those height differences. We don't have that much sun. The amount of wind is only one third of what they have in Ireland, for example. This means that we have to do very much to get this renewable energy. We have the absolute conviction that we must. We work on it every day, against the current, so I can assure the members. 14% is the 2020 target, 16% for 2023. This means that by 2020 35% of electricity production will have to come from renewable energy. If you see what has to be done for this purpose, windmills scattered all over the country and in the sea not too far from the coast, then that is a very big task. We must also realise that there is a tension between the fact that I am constantly, rightly, being addressed to the achievement of objectives and, on the other hand, the feeling in practice when it comes to implementation. We all know that in the Netherlands we should not have too much of nuclear energy. We should not have too much of the underground storage of CO coming from the coal plants. We don't need much of shale gas. We are convinced that the extraction of gas in Groningen should be reduced. Windmills on land, we're against that. Windmills at sea, we shouldn't have too much of that either. Biomass smoke doesn't seem right to us. The coal-fired power stations must be closed down, at least the old coal-fired power stations. We don't want coal from Colombia. We don't want North Pole oil, nor gas from Russia. We know exactly what we do not want, but in the meantime we say that the objectives must be met. Let's be realistic about that, too. If you want to achieve targets on renewable energy, it is especially necessary to say yes. Then we have to realize that you have to build a whole new capacity, which just costs a lot of money. The capacity for fossil energy is there. If you want to move to renewable energy, then capacity needs to be built up and it costs money. In my introduction, I will also briefly comment on Mr Van Beek's comments. With all due respect to him and his fellow party members in the House of Representatives, I would like to say that it always means that everything we do in the area of renewable energy and environmental policy is bullshit in their eyes or adjacent to it. I really don't see it that way. Let me give you an example. In Eastern European countries, central district heating will start on 1 October. It emits heat in all houses in the same way. If you think that's too hot, open the window. That way, you can fix it. Compared to the Netherlands, I see an endless difference. I am therefore very pleased that we in the European Union agree to this together with 28 countries and that we are trying to implement these agreements in all those countries. We've come a long way. Doing extra things has such an effect compared to the effects you can have when you take the measures that lie ahead in Eastern Europe, where things go so wrong. Let me give you another example of the smallest particles of dust in the air due in particular to the use of fossil fuels. If we have more than 30 of these particles on a given amount of air, then that is a dangerous situation and really must be dealt with immediately by the Dutch government. I've been to cities in the Far East where 300 of those particles are in the air. We already think 30 are dangerous and there are 300 in the air. There were also moments when they had 560 particles in the air there. I believe that it is also found that in the interests of the people there it is wise to pursue policies aimed at limiting the use of fossil energy and to pursue policies that implement all environmental objectives, as we have gathered together over the years, so that there is a healthy environment for the people for whom we are responsible, and for their children and children, as Mr Reuten says, so that they can live in a responsible environment. Mr Van Beek's approach is really not my approach. He says it's unnecessary, too expensive and too compelling. He's against the bill, and then he's done. Then I'll have to finish his input a little sooner, because then there's not so much I can respond to. First of all, let me say in general terms what this bill means. This is the implementation of a directive. Mr Reuten was angry that it took us so long to do so. By the date of adoption of the Directive, 10 out of 28 countries had done so. We are one of the 18 countries that have not yet done so, but we have already fully implemented the policy. In addition, we are already implementing the administrative rules laid down in that directive. We have already sent reports to the European Commission. It does not know what to do with it, because it has not yet received much of those reports. So we haven't had a reaction yet, but it's really not going so bad in the Netherlands with the implementation of that directive. We just think it should happen. We didn't get here in time. If the Chamber can support this bill, we can finish it. Actually, it's a small matter. This European directive is a follow-up to the previous European directive, which we have correctly implemented. After that, we have taken many steps forward with the energy agreement, so what is in it can be carried out quite easily. Actually, there are a few minor points that are being changed into laws. The energy directive we are about to implement has three objectives. The first is a European objective. Europe says how much energy it wants to save by 2020. We're already close. We want 20% and we are at 18% to 19%, so that 20% will also be achieved. The second objective is national, namely 1.5% energy saving. According to Mr Van Boxtel, it is only 1.1% or 1.2% and does not end up with much, but that is a misunderstanding. The ECN has converted what this is into petajoule. If we are to achieve this 1.5% energy saving target between 2014 and 2020, we must save 480 petajoule. The ECN has calculated that what we agreed in the energy agreement is going to be between 432 and 591. Well, then I guess that 480 is easy in between. If we consistently implement what we agreed in the energy agreement, then we will make that happen. I can assure the Chamber that I have no hesitation in implementing the agreements in the energy agreement as quickly and as effectively as possible. I appeal to others to do so, but I am also being addressed by others. Then we have the third, also national, target set in the Energy Directive: we need to renovate 3% of public buildings every year to make them more energy efficient. We will. We even do more than 3% a year. The European objective is thus being met. The energy saving objective is also being met, and in making public buildings more energy efficient we are above the target. What remains in the directive to implement is to amend a few laws on minor points. These are mainly aimed at making the necessary information on energy savings available in different places and in different forms, so that those who can influence them also perform. Mr Reuten asks when this will be done. He says we should have done that by now. These are two regulations and a decision. One of the three changes we have to make has now been implemented. The other two come in spring, i.e. in the first quarter of this year or at the latest at the end of the second quarter. At the end of the second quarter, we also implemented everything in the implementation arrangements.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u24	To be clear, is it true that you are going to introduce the whole law, but Article 8b may not be entirely?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u25	I do not understand what Mr Reuten means, but that must be my fault.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u26	We were talking about Article V, the entry into force.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u27	In order to implement this directive, we need to change two regulations and a decision. The decision has been changed and both arrangements will be changed in the first quarter or end of the second quarter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u28	You're talking about the General Measure of Governance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u29	Yes. These are two schemes and one decision or a General Measure of Management.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u30	Will you come back to my specific questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u31	Yeah, I'll get back to you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u32	Okay, I'll keep this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u33	I have already answered Mrs Vos' question about what we need to do for that 1.5% and what we think we can achieve under the energy agreement. With the energy agreement, we have made a huge leap forward in one go. We ourselves have all kinds of ambitions and rules, and we have managed to agree with all the parties involved, such as energy producers, energy consumers, the environmental and nature movement, employers' and workers' associations, 40 different organisations, on our final objectives and on what we can contribute to achieving them. We appeal to each other that we do what we can and what we have agreed. There is a balance in it. Some things were extremely important for the environmental movement and others she did not want. Other things were very important or very negative for the electricity producers, so they absolutely did not want them. That was negotiated, to see if we could agree. Something finally came up that everyone agreed on, and I'm not gonna sit around and argue about it. If the electricity producers say that they wanted something more and that they have good arguments for that, then I say: pity, but that is not in the agreements. I am not going to do that, because if I am going to morter at the agreements, someone else is gonna crush it somewhere else and the energy agreement will eventually collapse. I don't want to, so I'm sticking to the exact terms. I said this recently in a debate in the House of Representatives. It made them very faint at the end of the day, but it really is. If you've been able to make such a comprehensive package of appointments with the whole field, as a driver, you have gold in your hands, I think. You have to hold on to that and, above all, be careful not to let it slip away between your fingers, so that you actually achieve the result that can be achieved now. I'm not going to do anything extra or different, but I intend to do what's in it. Nor do I intend to take any additional interim measures. We agreed in that energy agreement what needs to be done. We have also said when we look at whether this is being realized and, if it is not, what we need to do to achieve it. I'm gonna stick to that, too. We have set up a separate assurance committee, which is going to follow all of this, so that at the time we are going to look at it, we have all the relevant information. I very much support that committee. I'm working intensively on that. That's how I'm gonna handle it, and I want to hold on to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u34	Is the NEV not saying that the objectives of the energy agreement are not being met? Do you agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u35	No, I don't agree. It states that 13% by 2020 and 16% by 2023 are feasible. My targets are 14% and 16%, so I have a problem in 2020. Only the policy adopted has been taken into account and there is more than the policy adopted. There is also the policy that has been agreed or is under development. If you add that up, I'll get that 14%; if I can realize those windmills that I have to realize, on land and at sea, and if I can co-incinerate that biomass that I have to co-incinerate according to the energy agreement. If I manage to achieve these things, I assume that with the policy adopted and planned, I will achieve 14% and 16%. And I intend to do that, as you know. I really keep my back straight with the windmills on land and sea and with the biomass, with everything. If a mid-term evaluation shows that I can't make it by parts, I'm going to take additional measures to make it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u36	The Minister is now also saying that that was exactly my question. That is why he is going to take additional measures in this situation. That's my point. Of course, many agreements have been made in broad terms, but in the end they are really about the hard results and the concrete measures. The critical reporting in the context of the NEV shows that too few measures were actually made concrete last year on energy savings. This year there will be another evaluation, which will probably be published in September. If it turns out that too little progress has been made and that too few concrete steps have been taken to see that it is going to succeed, will the Minister tighten up measures or see how he can ensure that they are achieved? I would like to link that with the agreement of the Energy Agreement that should be achieved next year, so in 2016, at least 35 petajoules. So could national energy exploration possibly lead to tightening up this autumn?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u37	According to an appointment, in 2016 I'm going to see what the flag is like. Of course, I am not going to train the case until 2016 and then find that it has not succeeded and then take action. No, I just want to get it. I don't want the evaluation to show that I'm off course. So I'm taking all the signals to see if it's going well enough and what I have to do, if it isn't, to do better. That's what I want to make arrangements about. I have the bail board for that. I also have regular consultations with the parties to the energy agreement. One time there's something in the National Energy Exploratory and the other time there's something in something else. All these things I use to make sure that, when it comes to it in 2016, I have the place in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u38	In fact, the Minister says: I'm holding my finger on the wrist. That's how I hear his words. If he finds in the autumn that it is slower than it should be to have sufficient results in 2016, he is going to intervene earlier or talk about additional measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u39	In the negotiations on the energy agreement, the natural and environmental movement has said that it is too little and that it needs to be more. Other parties said it's too much and it has to be less. They also had arguments for this. It was then that they negotiated with each other. An energy agreement has come out of that. That's what I'm doing. Some from the nature and environmental movement may still say that it has to be more and sooner; maybe GroenLinks says so too. However, I would like to keep to the agreements. If there are any developments that make me fail to meet the commitments made, I am going to try to do so at that time. That is what I am trying to do with the measures and agreements that have been made. I'm not trying to come up with any additional measures right now. No, I'm gonna stick to what's agreed. I think we can do that. If it turns out that it can't be done in 2016, it's not beautiful and I still have to do something else, but I'm not going to come up with something new right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u40	I am looking for something more concrete to understand what the Minister will do. This autumn, another National Energy Exploratory will appear. The state of implementation of all agreed measures will be reviewed. What if the report says again that we are not on course and that we are not moving fast enough? Will the Minister say this autumn that we need to speed up because more needs to be done?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u41	From the day I conclude this agreement with others, some people from certain circles say to me: it is not going to be fast enough, it is not going to work, it has to be more and it has to be different. It's been said to me since day one. I don't think that's realistic. We have made agreements and agreed on measures. I'm running it. If something goes wrong, I correct it, so that they will be executed and they will yield what they are meant to yield. But I'm not gonna promise that I'm gonna do extra things; I'm not gonna do that. I am going to look in 2016 at whether what we have agreed, other than what we assume, does not lead to the desired result. In this case, new measures are under consideration in accordance with the agreements of the Energy Agreement. And not before.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u42	I think the Minister himself has ordered the National Energy Exploratory. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u43	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u44	This concerns renowned institutions: the ECN, the PBL and the CBS. They say that the objectives set out in the agreement are not met in both policies, i.e. the policy and the policy envisaged. Isn't that a point the Minister should care about? It's not about the people who don't think it's hard enough, as the minister just said. These are the objectives of the Energy Agreement which are not being met. That's important, isn't it? It may also be that the Minister says: they see it all wrong. Then I would like to hear from him later whether he has shared this with them, whether he has information that these institutions do not have, what their reactions have been and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u45	This summary of what has been said is not entirely in line with Mr Reuten's intellectual level. He says that the objectives are not being met. But he will have seen, as I have seen, that the report states that the policy adopted will reach nearly 13% by 2020 and 16% by 2023. I say that the policy established in laws and the like is very important, but we have also agreed on a number of things that still had to be transposed into laws and measures. That's what we're working on. They will also have their effect. With that, we will also achieve 2014. That's my point. As Mr Reuten put it, it was a little short with respect for him. Then there is the issue of energy saving, on which Mrs Vos went. We agreed to set up this private system. So the government's not gonna set it up; it's a private system. We have said: we are not going to introduce it at once, we are going to set up pilots to gain experience on the basis of that. We've set up ten pilots by now. So we're getting experiences. At the end of the year, we'll get the results. On the basis of these results, we will decide on a mandatory roll-out. We won't do that until then. And not before. Mrs. Vos has asked what we are going to do to force companies to comply with the MEE agreement. Suppose I have a covenant with Mr Van Boxtel's organization, because I think something should be done and so should he. I can then address Mr Van Boxtel. If he's short, he's willing to do something about it. Then when I say to Mr Van Boxtel: you are obliged to do it, and now you do it, the operation of the covenant is gone. It has been chosen to do it with a covenant, to make agreements with the companies and to ensure that these agreements are also respected. It is therefore not a question of imposing obligations but of making voluntary agreements. In the meantime, we have agreed with the companies that consume 80% of energy in that sector. We all make that transparent. We look at where things are not good enough and we agree on intensification. This always happens in the spirit of making agreements. That is inherent in the means of a covenant. I think this is working very well for this. We have concluded two agreements, one for the ETS and one for the non-ETS companies, the MJA and MEE covenant. That works well, it can be better and we're going to work on that. In the end, we will achieve more results with a great deal of support than with a pure obligation. Let me give you an example. We have an obligation for a company to make an energy investment if it can earn back within five years. That is a legal obligation. That hasn't really gotten off the ground yet. A covenant is therefore a very good means. Businesses have an interest in saving energy, because it is generally more financially advantageous for them and it also increases their competitiveness. I'm sticking to the M.O. with those covenants. The provision of a five-year payback period is in the law, but it is not easy to implement it. Mrs Vos has also experienced this in practice as a driver. What we do is set up the organization to do this. We have now drawn up a list of measures by sector that you could take to comply with the legal provisions. We have made these lists for eight sectors, such as offices, care and education. A large part of the field is covered with it. We then made it clear to everyone what to do. If there is support and if companies have the ability to comply with it, we will proceed to enforcement at a sensible pace, because if you go too hard with it, you will achieve your goal to a lesser extent. However, we want to achieve this goal together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u46	The Minister raised two points on which I have a question. First something about the covenants with the really big companies. Of course, it is a covenant, but it is intended that the agreements will be complied with. If that does not happen, what opportunities does the Minister have to ensure that they are complied with? Frankly, that seems to me to be a legitimate question. It's the minister's job to do that. Then the Environmental Management Act and the agreement that you will do everything in your power to make the money back within five years. It is also crucial that enforcement is in order. We have had years in which that has been difficult. The Minister is well on his way, for example with the list of measures, but he must now go ahead and invest in enforcement. It has to be done now. It's possible. There's a lot of energy to be gained. How is the Minister going to ensure that enforcement is stepped up on all these fronts and that it is going to succeed?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u47	Mrs. Vos, you and I here in this Chamber, but everyone in our working environment, the environment that ensures that we get our salary paid every month, wonders why, if you can earn something back in five years as a company, you don't. However, suppose I had gone to V&D last week and I had told the company that it would have to invest a certain amount, but that this money would be recovered within five years. Something like that may be in the law, but it really doesn't happen at a time like this. I've had a period of two or three years with record numbers of bankruptcies. There have never been so many bankruptcies in the Netherlands. There are many more companies that are in trouble or against it. If I tell those companies that if they invest $100,000, they can make that amount back in five years, they'll laugh at me. I think it would be wise to build up these kinds of things properly. You have to allow companies to live up to that. You also have to face them with understanding. You have to try to find a way in here, so that in one case you maintain but in the other case you don't. This requires the development of a systematic approach. That is what we are doing, but it cannot be done faster than we are doing at the moment. I'm coming to the Covenant MEE. I really don't know what else to do than I already do. The companies and we take this covenant very seriously. We have now made agreements with the companies that use 80% of the energy. We are working to tighten things up, also in consultation with business. Why aren't we happy about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u48	A number of things are definitely moving in the right direction, as I have said, but there is much more to be gained. Research carried out by the ECN has shown that better and more intensive enforcement can still save 35 petajoules. That's a hell of a lot. So what else is the Minister going to do? The use of more human force, more capacity, can help, but you can also see whether certain measures are still conceivable, perhaps in the fiscal sphere, which, combined with stricter enforcement, can have more results. Let the Minister see what else he can do in that area.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u49	As far as enforcement is concerned, I can remove capacity somewhere and then use it in another area. That does mean I'm gonna get rid of that capacity somewhere. Next time I talk to Mrs Vos about dangerous substances and more risky production processes, she tells me that more needs to be done. Then too, I have to remove capacity somewhere else, because I have to ensure that there is sufficient enforcement in all these matters. As far as I am concerned, we have chosen a very good form of cooperation from industry in the MEE and MJA agreements. Where there is a need for improvement, we are working on it. Whatever there is to agree on extra petajoules, I was talking about 9 petajoule, but Mrs Vos on 35 petajoule is also being filled in with measures and then applied to those companies. We are also doing what has been agreed and what needs to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u50	The minister calls that 9 petajoule. That sounds a little cryptic, but it's an important thing. In the energy agreement, it was agreed that this would be an additional contribution for large companies. However, I constantly hear that it is not possible to make concrete agreements on this, that the companies do not want it or cannot see it or can't see it. This is precisely where the energy agreement is not going well. How does the Minister feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u51	Let us wait for the outcome. The energy agreement contains 9 petajoule, but that does not mean that these companies are eager to make their contribution to it. Companies have their own priorities and problems, but we keep them to ourselves because we have made a covenant with them. There are arrangements made in that. The companies have also committed themselves to the energy agreement. If we propose to fill this out in this way, they will come up with a reaction and we will talk about it. At some point we have to agree and then it has to be implemented. To see if all this happens properly, we have a committee of assurance and an evaluation. I like to hold on to that. Mrs Vos also addressed that 9 petajoule. I have indicated how we are dealing with this issue in concrete terms. Together with the industry associations, we have established a framework that will enable companies in the various sectors to know what is actually being asked of them. In order to find out whether we have found the right approach towards business, we have had talks with 15 companies, indicated what needs to be done and how we think this could be done. We've had an independent expert review the financial instruments to see if that's good enough. On the basis of our analysis of the financial instruments, the pilot talks and the framework, we will see if we can make the agreements concrete in the near future. I am optimistic about this because we have made these agreements with each other. They are not unilateral obligations. They have voluntarily committed themselves to it. So we have a title to appeal to the companies to comply with these agreements. Mrs Vos also talked about the built environment and what needs to be done about energy saving. She knows that this is the policy field of colleague Blok voor Wonen and Rijksdienst. There are two funds, one for owner/residents and one for landlords. Both funds have 75 million in public funds and 225 million in private money. There's not enough going on with these funds. There are not enough applications and there is not enough money from the fund for the stated purpose. That's gotta be better. We are currently looking at how we can make this more attractive, starting with owner-inhabitants. Instead of asking them for something and putting something complicated on their plate, you have to offer them a solution, so that they know exactly what is being done for them and what will ultimately be the results for them. So it's done in a different way. Solutions are put forward from the construction stage. Consumers are being taken care of. We also have an information campaign. We have also opened energy counters. I think that's how we can get things going. That is also necessary, because we are still very much left behind. A few critical comments have been made on the energy label. That's all fine. I don't like the energy label either. I know we've started it now. It's a provisional energy label. We shall thus have the opportunity to discuss this matter. It could probably be different and better. All this will also be discussed, but at least we have started to do so. Everyone's facing it. We can talk about whether this is a form that needs to be improved and, if so, how. In the end, we must also achieve results through the energy label. It doesn't come naturally; we have to do what we have to do. With the energy label, we have set things in motion in a good way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u52	Mrs Vos, briefly, you also have a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u53	I understand, Mr President, that I may be a little too much behind this microphone here. What I find a critical point with regard to the energy label is that the Netherlands is not actually implementing the European directive. It says that for each property sold or rented there must be an energy label that is right at that time. That is mandatory, but the Netherlands does not. There is no obligation and based on the year of construction the label looks like. In view of his responsibility for energy policy as a whole, does the Minister not agree that we should at least comply with the EU directive, but that we should also achieve more results, especially in the housing sector?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u54	I find it difficult to talk to Mrs Vos about this. My colleague for Wonen and Rijksdienst manages that file. I know that there has been an exchange of views with the Lower House and the Upper House. I don't know the ins and outs of that discussion. I do not think it is right to try to get on with me now, when my colleague is responsible for that. I have outlined how I approach it in a general sense. You should discuss with my colleague exactly how the directive is being applied in the Netherlands, whether it is acceptable within the European directive and what the consequences are if it is not. Mrs Vos has also asked if we are going to bring the ETS back to life. We are very motivated to do so. The trading system in CO rights is an important system, which we really need to be able to do properly those things that are necessary for the energy transition, to reduce its costs and to share fairly the costs that need to be incurred. The ETS isn't going well. It is one of the most important systems, so fortunately the European Council decided to tighten up the so-called ETS ceiling and introduce a market stability reserve. The cabinet supported that. This means that we are on the right track. We recently informed the House of Representatives about the way in which we intend to improve the ETS. A letter from the Secretary of State of I and M was sent to the House of Representatives. The whole of what we want to achieve, what we have already done and what we are going to do is set out in it. If the First Chamber appreciates that, I'd like to forward a copy of that letter to the First Chamber. However, perhaps the Chamber will be satisfied with what I have just said. Mrs Vos also asked about measures for energy saving in traffic. The National Energy Exploratory shows that savings in the transport sector are increasing. This is mainly due to the European emission requirements and the national incentive in the Netherlands for fuel-efficient cars. The whole package of measures in the field of mobility and transport should be drawn up during the course of this year. It will be provided by the Secretary of State of I and M. The Court will then be able to assess this in the course of this year. In the event of interruption, Mr Reuten mentioned the entry into force of the bill. The only part of the legislative proposal that does not enter into force immediately is the part on which the implementing legislation is based. That's Article 8b. That part will enter into force at the same time as the implementing legislation itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u55	When does the Minister propose to have that ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u56	I said that there should be three arrangements. One will be ready in the first quarter and one end of the second quarter. That's what I can say about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u57	End of the second quarter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u58	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u59	It will be introduced at the end of the second quarter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u60	At the end of the second quarter it is ready and can be introduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u61	At the end of the second quarter of 2015, was the whole law introduced?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u62	Yes. Mr Reuten has already had a discussion with me on the measures to be taken in the context of the National Energy Exploratory. That's what I've been working on. Mr Reuten says that you should not only achieve the objectives, but that you should achieve them very broadly. Let me say that we must do everything we can to achieve the objectives. We set the bar very high for ourselves both in the coalition agreement and in the energy agreement. Our challenge now is to get to it as well. To get over that now is something I don't have in mind right now. Mr Reuten also asked for annual targets to be set and for the Court to be informed annually. I wasn't going to. We made a deal. Each year there will be a National Energy Exploratory. In one year we will include certain subjects and next time we will include other subjects. In the following year we will take up the subject of the previous year again. In the energy agreement, we agreed on evaluation times. I want to maintain everything we now have about information moments and evaluation moments, but I do not want to introduce new ones. I am not prepared to set annual targets and discuss them with the Chamber on an annual basis, in addition to what we are all doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u63	The Minister is quickly stepping over the energy exploration. I quoted four projections. Does the Minister agree with those four projections? If not, does he have information that the rapporteurs do not have? If so, which one is it? The Minister knows the line?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u64	Yes. Those are questions on which I do not, of course, shake the answers out of my sleeve. I can only say in general terms the following about the four forecasts you are talking about. You say that with average economic growth just above 1%, energy consumption will be between -6% and +4%. I can see that we in the Netherlands have succeeded in decoupling economic growth from energy consumption. Our economy is growing, but our energy consumption is not. We have now disconnected that. That was never the case in the past. It was always the case that economic growth had a higher energy consumption. The sum total of all the efforts we have made has broken through. Mr Reuten says that we are not achieving the objectives and calls for energy exploration. I have already gone into it twice, saying that we are achieving the objectives. Mr Reuten says that the extra savings of 100 petajoule will not be made in 2020. We'll see about that. We're doing all kinds of things to make it. The first intermediate objective of 35 petajoule is in sight. We have already outlined agreements and measures to this end. I'm assuming we'll make that deal in the energy agreement. So I am not going to say that I agree with a prognosis which means that that is not the case. Finally, Mr Reuten said that the targets for renewable energy were not met. I have already said that I think we are going to achieve these objectives.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u65	I can't accept this. I am not saying this myself, but I quote the rapporteurs of the NEV. I have shown the page references in the footnotes in my text. The rapporteurs say on three points that the objectives are not being met. The minister may have information they don't have. In that case, the Minister here must tell us what information that is, what information he has that the rapporteurs do not have. I would also like to know whether he has shared this conflicting information with the rapporteurs and what has been the reaction of the rapporteurs. This is a clear matter and I think the Minister should be clear on this and clearly inform the Chamber. It's important business. The Minister knows that, too. It's about our planet and our children.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u66	Texts with footnotes are beautiful, but this is a debate. I'm told what you're putting forward, and I'm responding to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u67	I have quoted in my text. I also indicated when I was quoting. If you do not think that is enough, the footnotes can be read in my distributed text so that your officials can find out if they are in fact in the report. However, I can assure you that it is in the report. Minister, you also know it's in the report, because you know that report.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u68	I have dealt with both points in substance. Now Mr Reuten is just starting over, as if that did not happen. The objective is 1.5% energy saving, but I tell you that we are going to reach 1.7%. I have said to Mr Van Boxtel, even at the beginning of our discussion, which amounts to 1.5% a year, which we have to get, in petajoule. That amounts to 480 petajoules. We then had the ECN calculate what was agreed in the energy agreement. If you translate that, you're gonna come out of my head and you're gonna come out between 420 and 590. With that 480, we're within that bandwidth. I am therefore saying that we are going to achieve that 1.5% energy saving between 2014 and 2020. That was my reaction. Another point, on which you will now return, is that of 14% by 2020 and 16% by 2023. I have already said that this is a 1% difference for the year 2020. This is because the National Energy Exploratory only takes account of the policy laid down by law, while we also include the planned policy and then, in our view, we can achieve 14%. I have therefore taken up this point in substance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u69	Mr Reuten, you may respond briefly. You still have a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u70	Yeah, but this is gonna have to be discussed anyway. Let us take the fourth point. With regard to renewable energy, the report states that we will reach 12.4% by 2020. The European agreed target is 14%. We're not gonna make it. Do you agree with what I'm quoting from the report? I mean, do you agree with the correctness of the quote?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u71	The correctness of the quote? I do not agree with the observation that by 2020 we will not achieve that 14%.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u72	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u73	Mr Reuten, let the Minister speak. Moreover, I believe that we should not go on the path of a wholesome discussion as to whether it is so many percent or so many percent. You're not getting out like this. Otherwise, ask the Minister to put it on paper, otherwise we'll be stuck here in commas and figures until midnight.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u74	I conclude that the Minister and the government have objectives, that they are reported on those objectives and that they are said not to be achieved. The Minister says, however, that he feels differently. He has a different view from the rapporteurs. That's what the Minister says. The question is simply: did you report that difference of opinion to the rapporteurs? However, I do not get an answer to that. I would like to know what the rapporteur's answer was. However, I do not get an answer to that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u75	The National Energy Exploratory may say that we do not take the 14% into account the policies laid down in laws, but my response is that it is not just about what has already been laid down in laws but also about what has been laid down in laws and measures taken since then. Based on that whole package, we'll make it up to 14%. I am going to deal with this in substance, but you are not responding to it in substance, Mr Reuten, with all due respect. That's how it says in the National Energy Exploratory: the 6,000 MW on land isn't being made. However, I have made agreements with 11 of the twelve provinces, with which they have committed themselves to realising their share of the 6,000 MW in good time. I would therefore venture to say that we are going to achieve that 6,000 MW. The survey states that the 40% reduction in the cost of wind at sea would be too ambitious. However, the sector itself says to me that it is going to make it, and it also laid it down in the energy agreement. As part of the cost savings, I myself make a contribution, by using TenneT, of 3 billion for the connection of wind to sea on land. If that's also the case, can't I go against that report you're quoting and submit my information? That's what I'm here for, isn't it? I'm supposed to make sure I look over the whole thing, right? I'm gonna argue with you, and I'm gonna give you that information. Those are my answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u76	Mr Reuten, you want to respond, but Mr Van Boxtel is first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u77	I would suggest to Mr Reuten that he take the Minister's answer to heart. Moreover, I would really like the NEV to report on the whole in a second evaluation. That is a concrete request that I make. It is also very difficult for us when somewhere in a clause says 'we only look at the laws' when we also have an agreement and take other measures. I take the Minister's word for it. I am also suggesting this to Mr Reuten. I believe that the next report should prevent us from having endless debates of this type. You just want to know the real goal. This is important. It is simply a hard target that we want to be able to deal with one another, so to speak. I remember when Mr Kamp was a member of Parliament and I was a minister and I had a percentage, he said: I am only interested in that number. Well, I am now. So we're gonna turn that around in this ratio. I would like to receive an evaluation report on this year which will clarify exactly where we stand.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u78	I knew I'd get him back someday. So I'm happy to accept that. I have good memories of the time when Mr Van Boxtel was Minister and the way he did it. I think he's right. On the basis of the information provided to him, Mr Reuten is trying to ensure that he gets an idea of how the objectives are being achieved. Mr Van Boxtel says that you are relying on the fact that the information is not correct and complete, but then make sure that it is delivered in such a way that Mr Reuten is able to do so next time. I think that is a fair point. That's what I care about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u79	We, the Chamber, have nothing but the report of that committee at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u80	You have me, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u81	Apparently, the Minister disagrees with a number of conclusions in that report. Good. Fine. I asked the Minister whether he shared that difference of opinion with the rapporteurs, what their answer was and where we can find that answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u82	Those are things that, of course, I don't have ready. Perhaps you would have been prepared to do so, Mr Reuten, but I am not prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u83	But you do have officials, don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u84	If the National Energy Exploratory says "you're not gonna make the cut" while I just agreed with the sector, on the initiative of that sector itself, that we're gonna save 40% of the cost and I've done my part of that cost reduction by now, that's the answer I can give you. But if you ask "when did you report that to the researchers, when did those researchers return to you?" I have no reaction to that. If it is said 'you do not make that 6,000 MW' and I then point out that I made wind on land over 6,000 MW with all the provinces on a second date, then I do not know exactly when it has changed with those rapporteurs. But I find that less interesting myself. If Mr Reuten finds that particularly interesting, it turns out that this is the case, then I will try to get that information out, but I do not see the importance of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u85	Mr Reuten, I would like to conclude by saying that this is a very important point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u86	This is really the last thing at this point. I'm not interested in that date. I would like to know in the second term • the officials can in the meantime look into what information has been exchanged between the Ministry and the authors of the report on the differences in understanding of the conclusions. I would also like to know where we can find that, in what letter and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u87	Let me tell Mr Reuten how I deal with these reports. I don't influence a report in any way in advance. I never influence any official advice. I've never done that in my life. I never influence a report either. I'm just gonna let it come to me. If there is a report, I will come with a substantive reaction to it to those who control me, namely the Upper House and the Lower House. If a report has been submitted to me and I have views on it, then I do not think it is necessary to put all these views to those who have made the report, then to ask for a response and to discuss it with them. It's not like that. A report will be produced; that will be their paper. I'm going public with what I think should be done with it. That's how I handle reports. If Mr Reuten would like to know exactly what has been exchanged between the officials of the Ministry and the authors of the National Energy Exploratory, then I would like to try to verify that. But once again, the importance of that escapes me. Mr Reuten says that if he sees it correctly, he has to establish that the bill is actually limited to some registration and administrative requirements. He's right about that. That has yet to be done. This is a legislative proposal implementing a second directive; we had already implemented the first directive. Now there are a number of minor changes to laws, two regulations and a decision that must or must be amended. We have talked a few times about the dates on which this will happen. It is about information that helps those who receive it to fulfil their ambitions for energy saving. Mr Reuten wonders why we have not included the whole objective and the political instruments in the legislative proposal. Wouldn't that be good for Parliament's controllability of what I'm doing? There is a directive that needs to be implemented. We do not put our heads on it; we simply implement it. I have set out the objectives of the directive. That's what we're gonna do. We are also doing what needs to be done about administrative measures. That's this bill, that's the directive. I can't make it anymore. I have dealt with the implementation period and we have also talked about the entry into force. I hope that this has provided an adequate response to the points raised by Mr Reuten. Mrs Koning wishes to make it clear, I believe, that little has happened in enforcement in relation to the Environmental Management Act, which obliges companies to take measures that can be recovered within five years. It asks whether there is any knowledge of whether a sanction has been imposed in this respect. I have already dealt with the substance of this obligation in the discussion so far. I have no information that a sanction has already been imposed. As far as the implementation of this provision is concerned, there is still a world to be won. I hope that the combination of what we are doing is spreading information, giving opportunities to comply with that law, trying to agree on it together with the careful attraction of the economy, will lead to compliance with this provision, which has been introduced into the law by amendment. In addition, there are always nuances. I have already given a few examples. Companies will be fighting for their survival at some point. The fact that you can earn something back within four years is not a predominantly argument to make that investment, if you could already finance it. Mrs King has asked how I can promote the enforcement of mandatory energy audits. That is what my colleague from I and M is going to do, for example, with the Minister of State or the Secretary of State; I do not know if so, but at least one of the two directors of the government is going to draw up a temporary arrangement requiring companies to carry out an energy audit every four years. In drawing up this regulation, we will also discuss its enforcement. Following on from Mrs King's speech, I believe that if we lay down something in a law, which must then be complied with, and that we must ensure that what we lay down in laws can also be respected. There's got to be some kind of interaction between them. As far as energy audits are concerned, this is certainly feasible. Mrs King said that she would like me to promise that I will also report on this aspect of implementation in the planned review of the Energy Agreement in 2016. This will not be the case with that review in 2016. We have already paid attention to this in the 2014 National Energy Exploratory. We will not do that again in this year's, but in next year's. So it's happening again in the National Energy Exploratory. That is why I will not include it separately in the evaluation of the energy agreement. Mrs King has asked whether it is possible to include in the study on the potential of cogeneration and efficient district heating to be replaced as gas networks, it should be assumed that the first 40, 50 years after that replacement gas will still be an important source of heating. Mrs. King says that you should actually let gas be less important for heating homes. She and I both know that 98% of the homes in the Netherlands are heated with gas; to be precise, with gas of low caloric value or the gas from Groningen. That's what's there, and you can't just change that. It's something that needs specific attention. We will still have to take a step, at a certain rate, in order to achieve the ambition for renewable energy by 2050 it must be completely sustainable. It should also be related to cogeneration and district heating. It must also be related to the replacement of the gas networks. I will address this complex in the Energy Report 2015, which will be sent to Parliament in the fourth quarter. I think that is the right link to deal with this issue. Mrs King knows that we are also working intensively with the House of Representatives on the Heat Act. The Chamber has also taken initiatives to this end. We are developing a heat vision; we are changing the Heat Act. That means that this matter will receive the attention that I believe it deserves. I come to Mr Van Boxtel's contribution. I went into what he said about Groningen. Like Mr Reuten, he spoke about the NEV. Mr Van Boxtel and I have already come to a joint conclusion. We have also discussed the energy saving of 1.7%, converted into petajoule. Mr Van Boxtel suggested the possibility of a higher tax on fossil fuel, but that is not what we in the cabinet want. We think that there are too many taxes rather than too few. Whatever is still needed in the energy sphere has been negotiated in the energy agreement. A number of things have been mentioned and some things have not been mentioned. A higher tax on fossil fuel is not included in the energy agreement as such, so there are no plans for the government to do so either. I do not intend to take any initiatives in this respect. Mr Van Boxtel spoke about the certification of sustainable biomass. I think that is an important point. Although the European directive states that biomass is renewable energy, it is wise to take a critical look at it. Then where did that come from? In practice, it appears to come from trees that are cut down and used as first class wood for the (furniture) industry. If you do that, there will be garbage wood left to be collected. We get that biomass in the Netherlands. We have drawn up criteria on which we have agreed with the nature and environmental movement and companies. But those criteria also need to be checked. We agree on the ideal way of checking and we also agree that this is not possible at the moment, as the information is still lacking. We have therefore found another way of checking: the 'pellet mill' control. In addition, you look at the level of a factory in a large forest complex: where does the wood come from and meet the criteria? That's a useful one, but it's not the best way to do it. That control is therefore acceptable for a transitional period. I think certification is very important, so that I deal with it in the serious way I have just described. Mr Van Boxtel also spoke about the efficiency of coal power stations. He will have learned that we could not implement the original agreements in the energy agreement to conclude five old coal plants on the basis of agreements made. The ACM found that contrary to cartel law. Then we opted for another way, namely the setting of efficiency requirements. The old coal plants are now being phased out through these requirements. In this way we have ensured that the remaining coal plants meet reasonable returns. Mr Van Boxtel also spoke about sustainable shopping. We take this very seriously. We have set up our own knowledge centre, which is in the process of arranging sustainable purchases from the government and letting them become commonplace. But we are also in the process of extending knowledge in this area to other governments, so that they can work in this way. I am not saying that we are already there, we are at the Empire a long way, but not far enough, and with the other governments there is also the necessary to win, but we are convinced that this is a good process. To this end, we have set up the knowledge centre and set up frameworks. We will continue to make it a success. In my colleague for Wonen and Rijksdienst's annual business report on how things work with the Empire, the state of implementation of this policy will always be discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u88	I don't need a second term anymore, but I still have a question about sustainable shopping. I thank the Minister for all the answers; I await with interest the next NEV report to see if we will remain on schedule. In his reply, the Minister began to say something about fellow governments. A few years ago, I had a different social role, as chairman of a green business, in which we invested entire theme afternoons on sustainable buying from the government. At that time I noticed that, when it comes to co-governments, for example, a province like Friesland had already done very well. Especially in the Empire, it was still very fragmented. I'm getting those signals again now, so I put that question back to the Minister. Then I want to answer a little more than just: it is also about fellow governments. I have the idea that they can take the good of each other, but I also want to see strong steps in the Empire. Hence the suggestion that a purchasing organisation should be created, rather than that fragmentation by department.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u89	In the area of procurement a lot has already been combined. The question of whether this can be continued, especially in relation to sustainable purchases, will be addressed in the business report. Mr Van Boxtel's signal is clear; I will pass that on to my colleague. I said that we have set up a knowledge centre, PIANoo, where there is a lot of expertise that we would like to make available to other governments. Mr Van Boxtel says he has knowledge of other governments that are already beyond the Empire. I will look into it to see if there is sufficient attention for what the Empire can learn from others and whether that is sufficiently organized. I will go along with those points made by Mr Van Boxtel, I will inform my colleague for Wonen and Rijksdienst, and I will look into whether this point in the business report gets the attention that Mr Van Boxtel asked for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u90	We have arrived at the second term of office. I give the floor to Mrs Vos.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u91	Mr. Chairman. Minister, I'm so sorry: thank you very much for your detailed answer. Let me not be too jovial, because that is not what I was going to do. I would like to congratulate the Minister for really standing up for that energy agreement, and that is good. He's just saying, "I'm doing that." I would just like to make two comments. First of all, the Minister must actually implement the energy agreement. He is appealed to by this Chamber that, for example, in the so-called NEV 2014 of his own PBL and the ECN, we are only at 60% by 2020 in terms of energy savings, so that more needs to be done. For example, there are more signs that there are still insufficient concrete measures in the energy agreement. Then I am talking about the 9 petajoule to be delivered by the very large companies and the part about the built environment. That is not enough, something the Minister himself has just recognized. When we talk to the Minister about this, he says that everything is going to be fine, I have no signs that it is not going to be okay and I am not going to take any additional measures now. To be honest, I don't follow the Minister. If I tell him that, if enforcement is stepped up, enormous energy savings can be achieved and then ask him what measures he is going to take, he says: yes, what more should I do, I have no people, I can't do anymore. Then I cannot follow the Minister, because I see two ministers: one who stands for his energy agreement and one who says he can't do anything anymore. I see a two-faced minister speaking. I hope that at the end of the debate the Minister will be more united. That's why I want to ask him two things. The NEV will also be released in 2015. If that could lead to the finding at the NEV that we are not sufficiently on track and that in 2016 we will not achieve the 35 petajoule energy savings if we do not do anything extra, will the Minister say at the end of the year: I come with these and these additional measures? I want to make that clear. It is too crazy for the Minister to say: we do have the Environmental Management Act, but Amendment No has included the five-year agreement; that is all very difficult. That agreement has been in the law for years and years and years. I happen to know that because as alderman in Amsterdam, I decided together with a number of surrounding municipalities to comply with that law. Then we ran into all sorts of problems. It's now 2014. It is time to say once: a law is a law; moreover, it produces a lot of energy savings and savings, so let's go and comply with it. I would ask the Minister whether he can tell the Chamber, by means of a plan, what additional enforcement efforts he can make in relation to the Environmental Management Act, what the partners in the MEA Convention are doing and what agreements are being made on the built environment. What does he intend to do so that we can achieve that additional energy saving? The Minister said that the Energy Performance, a new measure in the Energy Agreement, is now being implemented via pilots. The Minister does not want to go so far as to make it compulsory, but I ask him whether it is not the clearest agreement to make it compulsory and whether this does not mean that it will be easier to get to work with it for the sake of enforcement. Isn't that also the most obvious measure for all the parties involved? The Minister said that the subject of the built environment is largely with his colleague. I understand. The Minister says that there is not enough going on so far, but what measures is he going to take to make it all work? I would like to receive the letter from the Minister about the ETS, the emissions trading, which he sent to the House of Representatives. In addition, I am very interested in the written response to CE Delft's report of October 2014, commissioned by the TKI Energy Saving Building Environment, in which the economic opportunities of energy saving are linked to the environmental opportunities of energy saving. I would like to receive a response to that report. Finally, I would like to appeal to the Minister. This dossier is an excellent opportunity for a Minister of Economic Affairs to take enormous steps and make something very nice of his ministry, both in terms of economic opportunities, innovation and employment and in terms of the energy saving portfolio. I call on the Minister to show a little more ambition, to show that he is also taking up this dossier in the interests of the Dutch economy and employment with even more energy and ambition and, where possible, doing more than might seem possible today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u92	Mr. Chairman. First of all, on behalf of the PvdA Group, I would like to thank the Minister for his approach to gas extraction in Groningen. We are very pleased with the answers, which show that first security of supply, then security of supply and only then the state finances are leading this minister in this kind of consideration. The PvdA Group believes that this is a very sensible commitment. Congratulations again for the decision. With regard to the answer to our group's questions, I shall deal with a few points. We very much agree with the Minister that there should be no rules on enforcement if you are never going to enforce them. We do understand the pragmatic approach of the Minister, who says: why should a company maintain its energy-saving measures that will be recouped within five years if that company does not even know whether it will still exist in five years' time? Then it sounds very nice to say: we are not going to maintain. However, as Mrs Vos pointed out, we are of course further away from home if in practice this leads to no maintenance at all. The Minister has therefore promised to include the enforcement aspect in the 2016 National Energy Exploratory. We're very looking forward to that. September next year, we can look at how enforcement at that time, with a little economic growth, should be possible, so that real energy-saving measures can be implemented in companies. Thank you for that commitment. Just to be sure, I'll do another check: the First Chamber will also receive the Energy Exploratory in 2016? I don't have that sharp anymore. The Minister has agreed to include cogeneration and district heating in the Energy Report 2015. We are very happy about that, too. Thank you for that commitment. We have already indicated that we do see that time is needed for the changeover. 98% of homes depend on gas for heating. So it doesn't happen overnight. Only, if you do not start today with the future in 2050, exactly what the Minister says is going to happen, namely that in 2050 we say: if only we had. I think we are on the same page here. We are therefore looking forward to the energy report to see how it can be anchored. We'll get there one step at a time. I have listened with some amazement to the debate surrounding the question of whether the energy exploration will include only what is already legally anchored and whether the prediction resulting from the already anchored measures is really good. I am very pleased that, following Mr Van Boxtel's suggestion, the Minister has promised to mention, on top of that, what measures are to be taken and why it is expected that the objectives will be achieved. In my opinion, that is what most of the parties have spoken today and the Minister is about: we should not just say it, but also do it. A number of colleagues may feel that the impatience to achieve it does not say anything about the way in which the cabinet is working on it, but rather that these reports still do not provide sufficient guidance. If I see Mr Reuten getting up, perhaps that is a letter which gives an insight into the reason why the cabinet believes that the objectives are being achieved, I think that would give a little more certainty.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u93	Let me just say one thing. I think there's been a misunderstanding about the N.E.V. The NEV always gives two variants. First of all, this is a policy that has been defined. This is then given the corresponding realization figure. Secondly, this policy is envisaged. There are two variants. That policy is a very long list. The annex to the report consists of a number of pages of planned policies which have been taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u94	What is important is that it should be added from a cabinet point of view to the letter in which the report is presented to us, which is why the cabinet sees that the objective is to be achieved. Actually, that's what the discussion is about: are we on the right track and are we going to get what we want? What I just thought was the most important thing to note was that we agree in the majority here on the goal that we want to achieve. It's just, some of you have some concerns about whether you're okay or not. The answer is sufficient for the PvdA Group to see that the cabinet is committed to this. The cabinet has made a number of concrete commitments which allow us as the First Chamber to take our role in this - so we can really keep our finger on the pulse.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u95	Mr. Chairman. I shall return to the end of Mrs King's speech. We all want to achieve the objectives of the directive and the energy agreement. We agree on that. I may have reacted a few times to the Minister, but I think this is my job. I do not doubt the integrity of the Minister, but I have the function I have. I assume the Minister appreciates that. I'm not questioning integrity again, but I'm doing what I think I should do. When directives are implemented, we often worry when there are headlines that we do not want here, because they need to be implemented. In this case, the opposite is actually happening. I believe that there are not enough tough objectives and instruments in the directive. This will enable the Minister, at least in part, to evade strict parliamentary control. The NEV draws a number of conclusions that are not pleasant for...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u96	Now I really feel compelled to contradict this, as a fellow Member of Parliament. A minister makes covenants. We have just had another minister here, who had also signed agreements and has been corrected by the Chamber. Let me take a look at Mr Duivetteijn. So it is not entirely true what Mr Reuten is saying. The Minister is simply bound to implement the covenants. That's what I'm relying on. It's obvious that you don't have a single word for it. You made an appointment with parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u97	Okay, so you're saying those covenants are tough, including for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u98	Yes!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u99	Okay, all right, all the better. Thank you. In the NEV a number of conclusions are drawn that are not pleasant for the minister and not for our children's children. Whether they're right or not, that's different. The Minister disagrees with some of those conclusions because he apparently has information that the NEV lacks. I assume, in fact, that this is not about the methodology used. If that's what this is about, I'd like to hear it. Apparently, the Minister has information that the rapporteurs didn't have. Okay, fine. My simple question was: did the Minister confront the rapporteurs with his counter-information? I would very much like to hear in the second period whether he has informed them of this and what the reply was. One of the points, which I do not find hard, is that the Minister says: I hear from the signatories of the Energy Agreement that the objectives are being met. Yeah, "I hear you," but in the N.E.V., that's not the case. I don't know; I'm not there. I can only read what I read. Well, last but not least, I'd like to come back to the following. If it all goes well, the minister and the cabinet are going to achieve these goals. That's about where we're standing. We're gonna get those targets on the edge. I believe that, given the interests at stake for our future, this is not very ambitious of the cabinet. I don't mean dramatic, but I'm still talking about our children's children. When it comes to something so important, you should not get the targets on the edge. Then you have to take a very wide margin to clear them up. I would like to have an answer from the Minister to the question: since it is necessary, why don't we take it a little harder?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u100	Thank you, Mr Reuten, I give the floor to Mr Van Boxtel.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u101	No, Mr President, I had already said that I no longer needed a second term, because I thought the Minister's answers were complete and proper. I'm just waiting for the next evaluation, because let me say that anyway. D66 will of course be more than monitoring that appointment is an appointment. I repeat the words of the Minister himself. These also apply to us in the relationship between the Chamber and the Cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u102	But you signed up for five minutes, it's on my notebook.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u103	Yeah, but if it can be shorter, it's taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u104	Okay, that's fantastic. I now give the floor to the Minister for Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u105	Madam President. May I, through you, remind Mrs Vos, that I have been invited to speak in the Chamber about the legislative proposal to implement a European directive? That bill has been passed through the House of Representatives as a hammer piece and is a follow-up to an existing European directive. These are some minor changes that are being made to laws. Mrs Vos is taking this opportunity to discuss with me the progress and implementation of the energy agreement. That's a broad interpretation of what's going on. I am always available to come to the Chamber for other subjects as well as for policy debates, but perhaps there is a lot of room between what has been happening for today and what Mrs Vos has put forward. But I'd like to leave it to her to draw her own conclusions, because she's the boss in this house and I'm just a guest.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u106	Mrs. Vos, the boss in this house.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u107	In any case, what I have tried to do in my questions is to limit everything to the issue of energy saving and to ask the Minister about the way in which we implement the Energy Efficiency Directive, which we sign. Will the plans we have for this implementation lead to the desired results? That has been my approach to the debate. A large part of the measures are indeed part of the energy agreement, which is why I have asked quite often for the energy agreement. As far as I am concerned, this is always in relation to the objectives that we, as the Netherlands, have to achieve in order to comply with this European directive.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u108	In the end, of course, it is about what Mrs Vos thinks, because it is her input, and that is what she is all about, with her group. Mrs. Vos went through a little bit of a twist every now and then. She said I was complaining that I hadn't enough people. What exactly happened is this. Mrs Vos asked me if I wanted extra people to be involved in enforcement at some point. I said, "If I have to put extra people on something, I have to take them somewhere else." I deal with the Environmental Management Act, as I said in my response to Mrs Vos in the first term. I'm not the Minister of I and M. I'm not the Secretary of State for I and M either. I'm not responsible for the environmental portfolio. The Environmental Management Act is not in my portfolio, so I may not be the ideal person to question in depth about the precise implementation of that law. I can only indicate how I think that law should be dealt with. I believe that what is in that law should be implemented, but that it should be done in such a way that it becomes possible. That means you have to let the business community know what it has to live up to. You have to give it the opportunity to stick to it. That's what we do with the measure lists. You also need to understand the situation in which companies are in. Shell can invest anything that can be recovered within five years, but V&D had some trouble with that last week. It is wise to take that into account. As a whole, we are now in the process of reaching agreements with the authorities responsible for enforcement and setting up programmes for this purpose. So we take that law seriously on this point too. Things aren't going the way they're supposed to, and we're building up. I personally do not think that there is any impatience in the Chamber on this point. Mrs Vos has asked me once again to propose additional measures before the end of the year if necessary. On that point, I cannot make any promises to her. I said what I could say about these additional measures in my first term. We have several opportunities to present the situation to the Chamber. The researchers are not harassed by me at any point. They can just come with their information uninhibited. I'll pass that information on to the Chamber, with my comments included. However, when implementing measures, I stick to the energy agreement. As far as I am concerned, any additional measures will be dealt with if an evaluation of the energy agreement shows that they are necessary. In the meantime, I am trying to properly implement the measures we have agreed on and achieve the desired results. Mrs. Vos also asked me to oblige the Energy Performance Committee. Pilots have been set up for the ECCP and experience needs to be gained. Once this experience has been gained, we will look at what should or should not become mandatory. At the moment, I would not like to comment on that. Mrs Koning raised a point that Mrs Vos also mentioned, namely the extra effort on the implementation of the Environmental Management Act, which I have just mentioned. I and M are at present primarily ensuring that performance agreements are made with the competent authority of other governments. Secondly, we have set up an expertise centre at EZ to support the competent authority of those other authorities. We discussed the measure lists, as did the EPC. This is what we would like to see now. In addition, I can say that all companies participating in the MJA/MEE agreements are there a lot of them and they cover the vast majority of energy consumption in industry, all of them comply with the Environmental Management Act, including this part of the law. So that might be a comfort to both of us. Mrs King has heard my commitment to Mr Van Boxtel. She agrees. She also felt that it was necessary for me to make that commitment. I hope to have satisfied her on that point. Ms. King says the energy exploration for 2016 must also go to the First Chamber. I would have liked to take note of that view. I'll see if I've met that. If not, I will see whether this can be met and what the starting point is for Mrs King to come up with a wish.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u109	Is it still necessary for me to express that wish? Then I would like to do this: express the wish that the 2016 National Energy Exploratory will also go to the Upper House.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u110	That's crystal clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u111	Oh, thank God.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u112	I'm gonna see if that's all the plan. If that wasn't the plan, I'm gonna see if I can meet that wish. If Mrs. King doesn't hear anything, then her wish will be met.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u113	That's great. Thanks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u114	Mr Reuten mentioned his critical attitude to me. That's very necessary. I also need a critical attitude from Mr Reuten. I think that's very appropriate. Mr Reuten said that he thinks the covenants are hard. That was also said by Mr Van Boxtel. I agree. We don't make these agreements because we don't think they're important. We make them because we think they are important, we think it should be done, we want to agree on it as stakeholders, we both want to feel committed to it and we want to make our contribution to it so that it can be done. We can be called upon to do so by the other side, and we appeal to companies to do so. Those agreements must ultimately have the same result as if we had done it through regulation. The result is all that matters. With regard to the National Energy Exploratory, Mr Reuten once again discussed the interaction between researchers and civil servants, in which he is interested. I'm looking at that differently. If researchers have something, they have to put it on paper and make a report. They must not be disturbed. That's what they have to come up with, and that's what's there. Then I have to come up with a response, supported by the officials. Eventually, I'll make a decision and come up with a reaction from my side. What exactly is going on between the officials and the researchers? When these researchers are busy, they can already have contact with the officials to hold things against them to see if they see it right and if they are complete. Then they help each other. If the officials then make an opinion for me with a response, they may also be in contact with those researchers. Those are just normal working contacts. My officials have told me that there have been extensive working contacts in this area between the researchers and the officials. But that's not what this is about. It is about the fact that there will be a report from ECN or PBL and a reaction from me on behalf of the cabinet. Those are the pieces that matter. On the basis of these documents, I would like to have the discussion with Mr Reuten. Mr Reuten said that the ambitions of 14% and 16% were lean in his opinion. He said we should go over that. I can only say that I really have to walk on my toes and get everything out of the closet to get that 14% and that 16%. There are many understandable obstacles that are raised, for example by the SP in the Lower House. As far as the agreements on windmills in Drenthe are concerned, she says: "Wait a minute; just listen to what they want; try to get support; take some more time." As far as Groningen and Friesland are concerned, they say exactly the same thing. And if I had done so with those three provinces, Brabant, Gelderland, Noord-Holland and so on, I would have come to the delay with those windmills on land and I would not have achieved that 14%. So I am doing my utmost to get that 14%, but Mr Reuten says I should go over it. I don't see that opportunity right now. I'd be happy to get that 14% and 16%. This was what I wanted to say in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u115	I have two more questions for the Minister. My first question is this. I have asked the Minister twice whether it is possible to give a response to this question, perhaps it has already been given to the House of Representatives on the CE report of October 2014 which contains a macro-economic exploration of what an energy transition in the built environment could mean. I would find that extremely useful, also for a possible continuation of this debate. My second question concerns what the Minister just said in response to my questions. A number of things I have asked for are indeed in the areas of his colleagues: Mr Blok and the Minister of I and M. Then I would like to ask the Minister as a representative of the whole cabinet the following. The cabinet insists that the implementation of the Energy Directive will succeed in the Netherlands and that results will be achieved. Can the Minister, on behalf of the cabinet, give us sufficient assurance on a number of points on which questions are raised and is the effectiveness of the approach sufficient? How to increase the effectiveness of both measures and enforcement? Can the Minister come back to this on another occasion, for example when we talk about the National Energy Exploratory? Can we then see what the cabinet as a whole is doing in this area?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u116	Sure. I am well able to speak in the Chamber about the policy areas of my colleagues, but only when it is on the agenda. If the Chamber wants to talk to me about the implementation of the energy agreement, I will come and speak on behalf of the cabinet on all parts of that agreement. I did that in the Lower House, and I can do that here. But if you ask me to come up with a technical implementation of a directive that we are not going to accept and which has been adopted as a hammer piece in the House of Representatives, and then ask me about the implementation of the energy agreement by my colleague from I and M, then I do not immediately have all the information on it. I also think that you didn't exactly put that on the table. Like I said, I'll leave that to the Chamber. If I am invited here to discuss the National Energy Exploratory or the Energy Agreement in broad terms, I will prepare myself thoroughly and I will be happy to be at your disposal on all aspects of it. Mrs Vos has asked twice about the CE report. I'm sorry I haven't gone into that yet. The wish is clear. I will look with my colleague for Housing and National Service to see whether and, if so, how this request can be met.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-eerstekamer-6.u117	The bill will be voted on Tuesday 24 February, because next week it will be recess.
