ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Infrastructure and the Environment. I would point out to Members that there is a two-minute speaking time for VOCs, including the tabling of motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. I'd like to file two motions. Then I can see if there is any need for further clarification. The first motion concerns a government Commissioner for Road Safety in order to achieve the target for the number of road victims. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[read SWOV's report "Towards more road safety";]] [[Considering that the trend in the current reduction in the number of road injuries, the target of not more than 10,600 road injuries and no more than 500 road deaths by 2020, will not be met;]] [[noting the need for additional impetus and effective pooling of forces between all stakeholders (public authorities, civil society organisations, business and road users);]] [[calls on the Government to appoint a government Commissioner for Road Safety for a period of four years with a specific mandate to ensure that the number of seriously injured in traffic falls below 10,600 and not more than 500 road deaths by 2020,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Helvert. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29398-452]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-3.u3	The second motion is about the N35. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the N35 is an unsafe road;]] [[Whereas a good link between the regions of Zwolle and Twente through the N35 is of great economic importance;]] [[calls on the government to maintain the ambition to upgrade the N35 national road to a 2x2 stream road and to seek ways to contribute financially to the realization of an uneven floor crossing of the Zwolle-Enschede railway line with the N348 (Bos intersection),]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Helvert. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29398-453]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-3.u4	When it comes to the motion on the government Commissioner for Traffic, I note that this is a very important matter...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-3.u5	Would you like to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-3.u6	Oh, yeah. It is very important that we achieve this objective and perhaps more than that. As a result, a number of parties will have to be brought together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-3.u7	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-3.u8	I've got ten seconds.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-3.u9	No, you don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-3.u10	That's what's on my display. I've taken that into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-3.u11	Excuse me. I'm confusing gross time with net time. You may proceed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-3.u12	That is why it is very important that there should be a bundling of forces. We'd like to know what the Minister thinks of this. Then we will respond in the event of interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-3.u13	I see an interruption by Mrs De Boer. Excuse me, it's Mrs. Visser.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-3.u14	We look just like each other!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-3.u15	That is not the case; I am simply mistaken. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-3.u16	It is also the first subject. I have not yet seen the motion, so perhaps Mr Van Helvert can help me. I think we get a lot of paper, but we still don't know what the CDA wants. The CDA is in favour of a commissioner. With what powers? Is he going to ban all 55-plussers from sitting on an electric bike at all? These are necessary measures. Does the CDA want to appoint a commissioner for this? Mr Van Helvert also tabled a motion on the N35, in which he spoke of a financial contribution. I'd love to see butter with the fish. What's the CDA thinking about? How does the CDA intend to cover the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-3.u17	Those are actually two questions, but they were also two motions. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-3.u18	In the counter-budget, the CDA has made more money available for infrastructure. If we keep that counter-budget, it won't be a problem. I would also like to ask the Chamber to draw the Minister's attention to the ambition of the cabinet before, but not anymore. The VVD deputy in Overijssel also expressed his deep disappointment at the fact that the cabinet does not want to deal with the N35, which is why we are tabling this motion. I'll ask the VVD if she wants to cooperate or not. As far as the Commissioner for Government is concerned, he ensures that the parties sit at the table, so that we do not have to force all matters from The Hague from above. It's a good thing parties go round the table. Indeed, nice and less fun measures will have to be taken to achieve the target of up to 500 deaths. This requires a bundling of forces. That should actually be the Minister himself. I'm waiting for her answer to find out what she's up to. It's really necessary. After all, we want fewer road deaths and less serious injuries. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request for an early vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-3.u19	I want to understand. On 2 March, the governance agreement on the N35 was signed between the Empire and the region, partly thanks to the efforts of the President in the past and thanks to the PvdA, which, with various motions, called on the government to speed this up. That's a good thing. I am still looking for what additional measures the CDA wants and what the cover for them is. I would like to look forward to that motion in the context of the MIRT in the autumn. Then we just have to get butter to the fish, including the CDA. Furthermore, I wonder how the CDA sees the administrative organisation of the Netherlands, also in connection with the motion on the national Commissioner that has been tabled. You state that there is a need to speak at regional level. Apparently, the CDA has no confidence in its own provincial or municipal directors. They're gonna be controlled from the Room after all, or they're gonna be moved. What does the CDA really want? I am curious to see how the CDA is going to vote in the future, for example on motions on the helmet duty for scooters. I understand you're gonna make a switch after all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-3.u20	As far as the latter is concerned, I am not used to looking for support from the VVD and then saying from above how to do it. I think it's always good to stay in debate. On the contrary, provincial and local leaders demand a strong approach from The Hague, not in the sense that what should be imposed, but in terms of pooling forces. There's just that question. A concrete example. We have a national target with regard to the number of road deaths. Those deaths also fall on provincial and local roads. The Minister often says: I do not cross the provincial roads, they are not mine, nor do I cross local roads. However, there are road accidents and they do fall within our national objective, the Minister's objective. We want to enforce that responsibility a little more. I have already said that we would like to hear what the Minister himself is like. Then we can still see whether we are holding the motion pending a Minister's plan. That is the objective behind it. As far as the N35 is concerned, you know our counter-budget, which also offers more scope for infrastructure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-3.u21	Could you put it a little shorter?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-3.u22	Oh, yeah. We also know the position of the board of Overijssel, where the VVD and the CDA have also said very clearly: we want to build the N35 twice-two.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-3.u23	I have a somewhat shorter question and I also think that a short answer can follow. It is good that road safety is high on the agenda. Mr Van Helvert proposed setting up a national commissioner. But first of all, Mr Van Helvert, are you prepared to take over all the 18 measures that SWOV proposes to achieve the objective, or not? Which one do you want and which one do you not want to take over?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-3.u24	This is what I think...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-3.u25	One moment, Mr. Van Helvert. Mr Hoogland spoke about SWOV. We also have a public gallery here and there are people watching with it at home. Let's avoid abbreviations. I think SWOV means: Stichting Scientifice Onderzoek Verkeerheid.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-3.u26	I do not think that SWOV's report, the Road Safety Research Foundation, is properly used by Mr Hoogland. He's asking if I'm willing to take all these measures. The goal of SWOV, the Foundation for the Scientific Research on Road Safety...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-3.u27	You don't have to explain that every time. We need to talk here in such a way that people at home understand us as well. That is my general point. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-3.u28	The goal of this club with this report was to offer a number of buttons that could be operated by different governments and agencies. It's not just a threshold and a helmet that can also be very important.... but there are more buttons. I think it would be wrong for us in the Chamber to say: you must and will turn all those buttons up. That is not the aim of the report either. That objective is to make more buttons available. With these buttons we have to get to work and I would like this to be done in good coordination with local and provincial authorities and all the social bodies involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-3.u29	D66 isn't here. Mr Van Helvert only talks about the process. It's fine that you want to achieve that goal. Mr Van Helvert also wants him to reduce the number of road deaths and injuries, but then you have to take some firm measures. That's what SWOV writes. That is why I ask Mr Van Helvert what measures he will take and what measures he will not take in order to prevent him from making proposals as his national commissioner, says: but I do not want to go too far. It is a bit easy to say that the objective must be met if it is not to be said at the same time how it can be achieved. So the question is: how do we get there?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-3.u30	We are absolutely prepared to take these measures. There may be a difference in the approach between the Labour Party from top to bottom, and the CDA from bottom to top, because we want support first and we want to discuss measures in advance. That is why we should not say now: this, this and this must be done, and then appoint a government commissioner. We propose that we discuss this with local and provincial authorities and all the relevant bodies in order to achieve this objective together. They all asked for it. That means you consult beforehand, not dictate, and then explain.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-3.u31	Mr. Chairman. I, together with the CDA Group, have put forward a proposal for practical guidance for driving instructors. It's called practical guidance, but that guidance basically means that the driving instructors have to take an exam. This does not occur in any other sector. It is logical that the driving instructors who do not function properly and do not do their job properly are plucked out of the rotten apples in the basket. However, the good driving instructor who has built up a lot of experience now feels a sword of Damocles above his head. Many driving instructors who have a lot of experience and are able to achieve high success rates have to deal with practical guidance which amounts to an examination for which they can fail and which also costs them a lot of money. In addition, this creates uncertainty, as they have to repeat this guidance every five years. They do not know whether they should retain their papers, and this brings with it uncertainties, for example when applying for a mortgage. The banks will be very reluctant to give a mortgage to someone who can just lose their papers. That is why I am tabling the next motion on behalf of the SP and CDA groups. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the current WRM practice guidance for driving school instructors is not sufficiently in line with the practice of teaching;]] [[Whereas good practical training can contribute to improving the quality of the driving school industry;]] [[Considers that losing the right to study if this practical guidance is not successfully passed is too severe a sanction;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the driving school industry, to adopt a new five-year practical training course where the loss of teaching power does not hang over the head of driving school holders like a sword of Damocles,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bashir and Mr Van Helvert. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29398-454]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-3.u32	Mr. Chairman. There is another response from the Minister to the 18 proposals to increase road safety in the Netherlands from the foundation of which I have forgotten the abbreviation again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-3.u33	The Foundation for the Scientific Research on Road Safety. That's him.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-3.u34	We are very curious when that reaction will come. Is the Minister prepared to include the most recent report on contour markings on lorries prepared by SWOV, the abbreviation is now known? Will it respond to that report in addition to the 18 measures already proposed? Is it prepared to make those contour markings mandatory for existing trucks? I say this as a question. I shall also table a motion for a resolution following the debate on the mustachescooters in Amsterdam. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas in Amsterdam there are a number of problems and accidents caused by large numbers of snorcooters on the cycle path;]] [[Whereas moving the mustache to the carriageway is a wish of the municipality of Amsterdam;]] [[Whereas, to date, there is only a very limited understanding of the effects of this relocation;]] [[calls on the government, in consultation with the municipality of Amsterdam and stakeholders, to identify the problems on the bicycle paths in Amsterdam and to identify the options and their consequences for moving the moustache scooter from the bicycle path to the lane;]] [[In addition, on the basis of this insight, the Government requests that the moustache scooter be carefully moved to the lane in conjunction with local measures to increase road safety on bicycle paths, and that it be reported to the Chamber before 1 October 2015,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Hoogland. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29398-455]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-3.u35	Perhaps Mr Hoogland can give me a hand now that the motion consists of two parts. In December 2014, we adopted a motion instructing the Minister not to move the moustache bike to the lane and not to have a helmet duty. Now I hear in his motion that he is asking for an investigation and that he is actually planning to arrange the relocation. He therefore asked the Minister to carry out further investigations and to arrange for the relocation to take place. What exactly does the PvdA argue for, also in relation to the previous motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-3.u36	I certainly can. In fact, this is a repetition of the general consultation we have already had. I could almost take up the report and read the text, but I will be brief. The research carried out in Amsterdam shows that there is no insight into the consequences of moving the moustache scooter to the lane. We want these consequences examined before this relocation is possible, so that in Amsterdam, but also here, we know the consequences of such a relocation. It's a big deal when you say at one time without the consequences being known, "Take those 30,000 moustache scooters to the lane." This has a particular impact on people who simply stick to the speed limit for that moustache scooter. That is why we want to examine it first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-3.u37	Then I have a simple question. When would the PvdA move the moustache to the lane? What are the conditions for the PvdA?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-3.u38	"When" is in the motion, I'd say. As far as we are concerned, this will be on 1 October. However, I would like to hear the Minister's reaction first. I assume that you are referring not only to 'when' in terms of time, but also to the question of when. Of course, that's a bit of a local consideration. My criterion is that you have to reflect the consequences. The municipality of Amsterdam deals with the question of whether a risk is acceptable. In addition, I would like to point out to Mrs Visser that the moustache scooter can already go to the lane, only not with a helmet. Amsterdam can do this already, even more so: if the consequences are in the picture, the city can do so without the Chamber playing a role in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-3.u39	I'd like to get some clarity. In December, Mr Hoogland signed a motion not to do so, so not to move them. It was already known that there were problems and accidents. What's changed that makes the PvdA want to turn that around here?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-3.u40	Nothing's changed. I didn't sign the motion, by the way. I just supported her. The reason for this is that we first wanted to understand the consequences of such a relocation. We have no objections in principle, nor are we in principle in favour of them. It is therefore not a matter of principle for us, whereas it is a matter for the CDA. The CDA says, "Never go to the lane." We say: picture it and then make local customization possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-3.u41	At least you supported a motion not to do so. That's a clear statement, isn't it? So it was a conscious choice. You can support them or you can't. Then you supported that statement. Now you are talking about the transfer of mustaches to the lane and the consequences of this need to be investigated.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-3.u42	That's what you just said. What's your new question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-3.u43	Mr Hoogland himself says that nothing has changed about the situation. Then why is the position of the Labour Party turned from not on the road to an investigation as to whether this is possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-3.u44	I can repeat my answer, but I do not think I will convince Mr Van Helvert. For us, the main thing is to see the consequences of the relocation. That hasn't happened yet. If that is the case, we can simply agree to a relocation. In fact, this relocation is already possible, but a helmet duty still requires the Chamber, because there is then a legislative process. In fact, not that much has changed. There's not that much going on either. We are only calling on the Minister to investigate that relocation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-3.u45	I have Mr Hoogland's motion before me. It doesn't say there's just an investigation to be done. It also states that preparations must be made in advance to do it carefully. If this motion is adopted, then the Chamber is actually out of play. Then it will simply be done without us being able to look at the research results here. Why doesn't Mr Hoogland take these two things apart? Then careful research can be done first. Then we can discuss it in the Chamber and take a decision on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-3.u46	If anyone is prepared to ask for a debate, it is Mr Bashir. We are always prepared to do so. So the room is there itself. After these research results have been sent to the Chamber, we can, of course, debate each other. Not only does that seem useful to me, but it is also good. So we'll probably talk about this later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-3.u47	Then I propose that Mr Hoogland amend the request in his motion so that the investigation is done first. Then, based on the research results, we can look at how we're going to do it and whether we're going to do it. Then we can do business.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-3.u48	I am always prepared to change the motion. Seems like something to do outside this meeting. I'd like to hear the Minister's answer and then I'll make that assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-3.u49	Mr. Chairman. In my opinion, we are going to talk in the next period about the question of when there is a helmet duty, to whom it applies and on which bicycle paths and in which inner cities it applies. Perhaps the Minister could indicate whether she is prepared to join ongoing investigations, including those of the ANWB, on how to keep the inner cities accessible to all modes of transport. For example, where do bike traffic and moustache bikes get? Maybe the research the PvdA is asking for is already being carried out. Then we don't have to do any additional research. I now turn to two points. The first is the N36. I have already drawn attention to this in the AO. On behalf of Mr Hoogland of the PvdA, I am tabling a motion on this matter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the N36 in the Twente region is known as an unsafe road;]] [[Whereas the N36 is a national road which must comply with national road safety standards;]] [[noting that eight measures in the N36 are foreseen under the More Safe-3 programme;]] [[noting that these measures will not be completed until 2018;]] [[calls on the Government of the Netherlands to give priority to implementing these measures so that the road safety of the N36 can be restored as quickly as possible;]] [[and calls on the Government to continue monitoring the road safety situation and, if necessary, to take additional measures,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Visser and Mr Hoogland. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29398-456]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-3.u50	Then I have a specific question. Last Friday I was on a working visit in Zierikzee, Zeeland. The discussion was about the agricultural traffic that runs on the N59 highway. It is not clear at what speed you are allowed to drive and in what way. During the AO we talked mainly about the registration requirement, but I also asked for speed increases for agricultural traffic to be allowed quickly. On this issue of the N59 but also in a broader sense, I am asking when this speed can be increased. Can the Minister quickly clarify to the province whether or not to allow agricultural traffic on the N59 and the allowed speed?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-3.u51	Thank you very much. This brings us to the end of the Chamber's input.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-3.u52	Mr. Chairman. I'll start with the motion in part No. 452, tabled by Mr Van Helvert, requesting the government to appoint a government Commissioner for road safety. In general terms, I have said that I do not see what a government commissioner could do more than what has been done in recent years. There is intensive cooperation between the Empire, the provinces, the municipalities and the waterboards. There is specific consultation between road managers. We hold consultations in domes. I've put together a club of ambassadors to make cycling safer, which runs through all layers. So I see no obstacle in cooperation. What makes the case complex is the fact that society is changing. For example, there are more older road users and new types of bicycles come onto the market. We are always trying to respond to the current situation. We are currently implementing 23 measures from the Policy Impulse. We believe that this will keep us below the maximum number of road deaths. Staying below the maximum number of road injuries will be difficult. That is why we have asked SWOV to propose more measures. SWOV has therefore introduced 18 additional measures. I will give the Chamber a response to these measures before the summer. We will add these additional measures; the 23 previous measures are not even ready, or there will be 18 more. I take this matter up with all the governments and organisations involved. As far as I am concerned, it is about implementing the measures and not about the structure or about a person. I'm deceiving the motion in part No. 452.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-3.u53	I see that Mr Van Helvert wishes to place an interruption. I would add that we are not going to repeat the general discussion here. If Mr Van Helvert has anything to ask for that has not yet been discussed in general consultation, I am happy to give him the floor. That's the only way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-3.u54	We have no doubt that sufficient work is being done and that sufficient groups are being set up to work hard each and every one of them. However, it is also a question of coherence. I hear the Minister say she's coming with a response to SWOV's report. Is the Minister actually saying that she is in fact the government commissioner and that she wants to take up that task? Is it true that I hear the Minister say this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-3.u55	I believe that I have already said in the general consultation that I am the coordinator in this area and that I take this task seriously. Mr Van Helvert never heard me say that I do not want to interfere with local or provincial roads. I feel responsible for our task. I do this together with my colleagues in other parts of the country.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-3.u56	In that case, I am prepared to hold the motion on the Government Commissioner until the Minister has responded to SWOV's report.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-3.u57	At the request of Mr Van Helvert, I propose his motion (29398, No. 452). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-3.u58	The motion in part No. 453, also tabled by Mr Van Helvert, concerns the upgrading of the N35. There is a lot of talk in the Chamber about this issue. I was therefore somewhat surprised when it was said that there was dissatisfaction in the region. The whole main road network is my responsibility. We have agreed on a system whereby we invest when there is a real bottleneck. The N35 does not appear as a bottleneck in the balance, as the Chamber has seen. Nevertheless, at the request of the Chamber, I have invested heavily in the N35. The total investment is now 600 million. It concerns five projects at different stages. In my opinion, therefore, a great deal is already being done. The motion asks whether we can invest even more on a number of specific points. This involves the realization of two-time-two lanes and an uneven floor crossing at the intersection of Bos. We have done a great deal from the point of view of the state. We have made good agreements with the drivers on this. For example, we agreed that 15 million is available for the Wierden-Nijverdal section, 10 million from the province and 5 million from the Empire, and that 3.1 million from the administrative agreement is earmarked for the ground-floor approach to the Forest Crossroads, so that security issues can be resolved. If the province wants to make it an uneven crossroads, everyone in the Netherlands wants to do so: fine, you can even use the 3.1 million for that, but the rest you will have to contribute yourself. It's not a national bottleneck. We're contributing a lot. As far as I am concerned, the province is free to use the 3.1 million for uneven floors, but we do not have any additional resources available. The same goes for making everything two-time-two. I feel like we're doing a lot for the N35. I do this with love and I think it is important to invest in this region too, but Mr Van Helvert is asking for more, and I say that there are so many issues in the country that are on the list of bottlenecks that I cannot begin with.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-3.u59	What is the verdict on the motion for a resolution?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-3.u60	Excuse me, I'm deceiving the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-3.u61	I think there's been a misunderstanding after all. The region is making a lot of efforts to bring all kinds of representatives of the people to its area because it is not yet satisfied with the way things are going with the N35, more specifically the connection between Enschede and Zwolle. I hear the Minister now saying that good agreements have all been made and that all directors are satisfied. Well, they really aren't. If you follow the Twitter accounts of the delegates in that regard, then I'm really not just talking about the CDA-deputed................................................................................................................................................... My question, therefore, is whether the Minister is prepared to discuss this again with the government of the province.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-3.u62	Two weeks ago, I had all the drivers by to sign the next part of the N35 line. They sat there of all political colors, including the CDA and the VVD. They were very satisfied, I can say to Mr Van Helvert. Of course, every region has its wishes. There's 90 billion worth of wishes. You're relatively new. You'll see it at the first MIRT transfer. If we do the rounds in the regions, you will also, as a Member of Parliament, be frequently jumped by regional directors with many more wishes. That does not mean that they are dissatisfied, but that they simply make good use of the lobby circuit, which I always recommend to them too, but we are making a different choice here with each other. We are looking at where the bottlenecks are and where we have to solve problems in the main road network and where our euro is most profitable. I submit this every year to the Chamber and then she also has the opportunity to switch things or move things from A to B. For example, do we do it to the N35 and not to Limburg? But that is the choice we make with each other and we record it. We made this choice with each other, and they got the budget, too. If there are any extra wishes, I say, let the province itself be in the pouch.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-3.u63	Very briefly, Mr Van Helvert, because the positions are clear again and again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-3.u64	Thank you very much, Mr President. I understand that the Minister says that the directors are very satisfied, but I continue to fight that very strongly. I will certainly table the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-3.u65	You'd already filed it. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-3.u66	Then I come to the motion by Mr Bashir and Mr Van Helvert on the practical guidance of driving school instructors. We have also talked about this many times in the past, and then I indicated that I spoke with the three interbranch organisations and we came to the conclusion together that the sanction should not be abolished; that was last year. In fact, industry organisations are constantly calling for measures to improve the quality of driving schools. If you abolish that sanction, as far as I'm concerned, open the door wide to driving school instructors without the quality check. Experience has shown that far less than 1% of driving instructors are down. In addition, a rematch may be made within a reasonable period of time. I understand that it can be difficult for the older driver, but I think that the problem that the proposers of the motion are sketching is, in the end, very bad. That's why I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-3.u67	Mr Bashir, I will of course give you the floor, but I will look around for Members. If we are going to ask for an explanation for each motion, and then we are going to get stuck in the middle of the agenda and the time this morning. So I ask all Members to pay a little attention to that. Mr Bashir, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-3.u68	I want to nuance the Minister's words. She said she's already spoken to the industry. It must be aware that the three who are responsible for this are also the representatives of the training centres. You have to look at the interests involved. You don't have this kind of practical guidance in any other industry, where people can drop. Many school drivers always have this uncertainty and experience the consequences, not only psychologically but also in practice, for example when applying for a mortgage. So those consequences are pretty big. I therefore ask the Minister not only to look at the interests of the training centres, but also at the interests of, for example, driving school holders, who are largely members of the driving school industry itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-3.u69	I have said something about this many times. I myself believe that this is a small problem. It is good that there is retraining and that there are sanctions for someone who is simply not good enough. It is ultimately about road safety and training young people on the road. It's just that we're in different ways. So I'm deceiving the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-3.u70	Despite what I have just said, Mr Bashir has something to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-3.u71	Can the Minister comment on whether she has spoken only to the industry or also to the training centres? There is no such thing as a fog. The Members of Parliament will have to consider whether they are in favour of or against this motion. Has the Minister spoken to the people in the industry with whom the instructors are connected?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-3.u72	I have not spoken to them myself, but my people have spoken to the three trade associations. I assume that these are the three largest trade associations. I do not know whether these interbranch organisations have training institutes and who has which institutes. I don't have that information, and I don't find it interesting. First of all, I think that industry organisations should pay attention to quality. Secondly, I think that we should also consider ourselves: do we think the quality is important? We think so. I just got a note from my officials. There has only been talk with the branches and not with the training institutes. So that's the answer right away. However, I also believe that people who train other people in driving skills should be good enough, because not well-trained people can be a risk on the road. I think that there should be occasional inspections and that it should also be said once in a while: if you are not good enough, you should not give those lessons. I think that's a perfectly normal balancing process. I come to Mr Hoogland's question on the contour marking of lorries. I will include this question in my letter on SWOV (Stichting Scientifice Onderzoek Verkeerheid). I'll send that letter to the Chamber for the summer. I'd already agreed to that in the AO. In that letter I will also deal with the contour marking of lorries. Mr Hoogland asks me in his motion for a resolution on item No. He also asked in the AO to investigate for Amsterdam the effects of moving the scooter to the lane. He also asked me to look at what local measures could be taken to improve road safety on bicycle paths. I have two reactions to this. I can see for myself that the crowds on the bicycle path....................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I believe that we need to examine what can be done about this. As far as I am concerned, this is wider than just Amsterdam. It's not just about Amsterdam, it's about the whole country. I will involve Amsterdam in the investigation. That seems logical to me, because this is one of the places where problems arise, but I think I should look at them more broadly. It is not just a question of whether a moustache bike or scooter should be on the road and whether or not the driver should wear a helmet, but it is also a question of quite different issues, such as speed pedals that can drive 45 km/h and all kinds of other forms of transport. I recently received a request for self-driving cars that have to drive on a bicycle path. You can see that everything is about to happen in the Netherlands. What am I saying to you and what not, just to make it clear? I'm doing a wide-ranging study and I'm taking Amsterdam with me. I come first with the investigation; I cannot come to your Chamber with local measures if it has recently told me that I cannot do so. In December, the Chamber told me not to take individual measures. I can make proposals in connection with the investigation and I expect a ruling from your Chamber as to whether or not she can agree to it. I will at least ensure that before 1 October that part of the crowd on the bicycle path for Amsterdam is finished with those scooters. If other things are needed as a result of new technology or new developments, then I will bring that in on time. In view of the fact that I have interpreted this motion and that others have already been trying to amend it, I leave it to the Chamber, in the hope that the Chamber has followed my interpretations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-3.u73	The motion in part No. 456.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-3.u74	First of all, I would like to ask Mrs Visser whether I can agree with other studies of the ANWB and so on. Yeah, we'll always do that together, of course. I believe SWOV has also made comments about a follow-up study, so I will first take a round at the parties that are always working on this. In the motion in part No. 456 on the N36 by Mrs Visser and Mr Hoogland are being asked to speed up road safety measures. I have already promised in the AA that I will investigate whether the implementation of the measures can be accelerated. I repeated this when I visited the region, where I recently went to look for myself. I am currently considering how to speed up the implementation of this measure. Parliamentary questions have now also been asked. I therefore consider this motion to be a policy support.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-3.u75	Indeed, we have also been able to take note of the Minister's visit to the region, but the motion calls not only for acceleration but also for monitoring and for it to be sufficient. Perhaps the Minister could make a commitment to that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-3.u76	We will also continue to monitor whether the issues have been resolved and whether other activities may be needed in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-3.u77	I would like to conclude the debate, unless Mrs Visser...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-3.u78	Mr. Chairman. I had asked the Minister another question about the N59 and agricultural traffic.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-3.u79	The broom truck.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-3.u80	Excuse me. It is true that the speed can only be entered once the registration has been arranged. That registration is, as you know, a legal process. If it's okay, that will be done in 2017, but then everything will have to run well. So that's when the speed increase happens.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-3.u81	I propose that we vote on the motions for resolutions tabled on Tuesday.
