ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-3.u1	Mr. Chairman. This week the annual Amsterdam Dance Event bursts again with more than 350,000 visitors. Music and these festivals are now an economic sector of interest in the Netherlands. Last year the festival was overshadowed by three tragic deaths. In the Netherlands, 164 people died of illegal drugs in 2012/2013. Every dead man is too many. By comparison, 23,723 people died from alcohol and tobacco during the same period, which are legal pleasures. The municipality of Amsterdam, together with the festival organisation, the Public Prosecutor's Office, Jellinek and other partners, is committed to prevention. They choose a pragmatic line. Drugs are forbidden and do not belong at a party, but their use cannot be banned. Informing and testing drugs is paramount, not punishing them. Those who ultimately need emergency or emergency services need no fear of criminal prosecution. That's how GroenLinks likes it. According to the Minister, what should come out of this new approach to ensure that he recommends it to all the municipalities and festivals in the Netherlands? Does the Minister agree with GroenLinks that the police and the Public Prosecutor should focus not so much on users but on drug traffickers? Does the Minister with GroenLinks think that the health of visitors and users is paramount and that there should therefore be a place at any similar event where users can test their pills and a lot of practical information about the use of drugs is explained? People therefore know that they will not be arrested immediately if they go to the first aid post.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-3.u2	I give the floor to the Minister for Security and Justice to answer this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-3.u3	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Mrs Van Tongeren for asking this question. The policy of the local triangle, the municipality of Amsterdam, the National Police and the Public Prosecutor's Office, has also raised questions in the Amsterdam city council. In this context, it has been agreed that there will be an evaluation of the policy and that the city council will be informed accordingly. The debate about what you do in the local triangle in specific local areas belongs in the city council of Amsterdam. Mrs Van Tongeren asks a question about health. The Dutch drugs policy has always been characterised by a sensible view from the health care sector. We have always said that it is important that we keep hard drugs and soft drugs as separate as possible and have chosen not to criminalise the use of drugs in the Netherlands. This means that at the same time there is a designation and a directive which will provide the Public Prosecutor with the tools to shape the investigation and prosecution. I can confirm to Mrs Van Tongeren that this is specifically about the dealers, because the dealers need to be dealt with. That is the essence of the policy, including in Amsterdam. I understand that in the local triangle the balance has been made that the Amsterdam Dance Event is such a series of celebrations that it becomes difficult to maintain the existing baseline of "one pill and above it takes place seizure or criminal prosecution" and the policy has therefore been adapted in the specific local framework. I myself believe, with a number of parties in the city council of Amsterdam, that the policy of five pills is very generously formulated. I will therefore be able to understand myself with the Public Prosecutor's Office. In any case, I do not think it is a good idea to say that this particular Amsterdam policy should become a national policy for one specific festival.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-3.u4	I am glad that the Minister says that we have behind us the time of drug dogs sniffing at everyone at these parties, of the harsh approach and of the possible destruction of the entire working career of young people who once have one or two pills in their pockets, and that the use is not punishable. But my question was another one. Amsterdam is evaluating it. Suppose that comes from that: gee, no killing this year, it all went pretty well and there might be a cost savings on the police's deployment. What would be needed for this minister to say: Rotterdam, The Hague, Utrecht, Tilburg, Maastricht and mention a few major cities with festivals should also work on that? So what would be a decisive argument for the Minister? Or is he actually saying that Amsterdam is such a separate city that we don't do it there for a while, but that we in the other cities should continue to maintain the war on drugs?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-3.u5	I think that the war on hard drugs must be fought hard and I am not opposed at all to using hard drugs dogs at parties. In fact, I think it would be very sensible if this were to happen within the framework of the Amsterdam Dance Event. Because if you want to catch dealers, you're also gonna have to make sure there's resources to catch them. For that, drug dogs are a very successful tool. I note that every pill found by the police or the judiciary is seized. So the stated five-pill limit doesn't mean you can have it. No, every pill is handled when it's found. I think there is also every reason to deal with this very carefully, because last week the Trimbos Institute warned about a very heavy ecstasy pill that contains twice as much MDMA. There is a great deal of concern that these victims could cause. There is therefore every reason to continue our hard drugs policy in the interests of public health as we already do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-3.u6	In my opinion, the Minister gave exactly the strongest argument to test correctly. There are pills in circulation with a huge heaviness, but also regular and light pills. A user doesn't know that. If you test them, you know, and you know, I'm not gonna take this pill. So let me ask you again: what should come out of the evaluation so that the Minister says that Amsterdam's policy is very sensible and has good effects? And would the Minister, if necessary in the long term, be prepared to look at a social cost-benefit analysis? After all, that is what this is all about: does the policy have an advantage for public health and the maintenance of order? In addition, in this economic sector you want to give foreign visitors clarity about what can and cannot be done in the Netherlands. Parents also want their children to survive and they dare to go to a first aid post. Would the Minister be prepared to look into this and identify for the Chamber the social costs and benefits of the current commitment compared to the Amsterdam approach?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-3.u7	I think it is a good thing that, as part of their role, we continue to advise parents not to use drugs, especially for their children. Because hard drugs, however you turn them, are dangerous and bad for health. As far as the tests are concerned, I understand from VWS that the Jellinek does not open an additional test location. Perhaps Mrs Van Tongeren had that impression, but my information is that it is not...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-3.u8	On the Herengracht even.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-3.u9	... but that the normal test service of the Jellinek will remain open for longer during the Amsterdam Dance Event. There the usual method will be followed. There is an information point during the Amsterdam Dance Event of Jellinek where both Dutch and foreign visitors can visit and get information about the risks of using hard drugs. I am not going to have a social cost-benefit analysis. We have a clear policy. Hard drugs are dangerous. They're forbidden. As far as I'm concerned, it stays that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-3.u10	The Minister began his answer to Mrs Van Tongeren's questions with such a sensible remark that this is to the Amsterdam city council. I very much agree with that. However, now the Minister addresses the Public Prosecutor's Office on the fact that five pills do not necessarily lead to criminal prosecution. I think that's a bit out of line with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-3.u11	I don't see why that would go against that. We have drawn up a directive and a lead. We have coordinated this policy with each other with care. I am very curious to see how this directive and its designation relate, in the eyes of the Public Prosecutor's Office, to the specific situation in Amsterdam that we are talking about here. Again, every pill is illegal and forbidden and impounded. It's gonna stay that way. Only the question that lies ahead now is when you're actually going to prosecute someone, where you have to make the dividing line between user and dealer. I suppose that's a question about the principle of opportunity, but I'd like to hear that from the State's Attorney's Office. I'd like to share that information with the state's attorney's office.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-3.u12	Mrs Berndsen has a second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-3.u13	This sounds a little nicer to me. The minister doesn't talk about the clue, and he wants to hear about it from the state's attorney's office. Now I hear he's going to inform himself, and I think that's excellent. Maybe that information can be made available to the other public prosecutors. If other municipalities than Amsterdam want to adopt policies, we have a somewhat uniform policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-3.u14	I have already dealt with that last point by telling you what I intend to do. In response to Mrs Berndsen's other point, I can confirm that the purpose of asking for information is to hear what is happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-3.u15	I thank the Minister for his answers and his coming to the Chamber.
