ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Infrastructure and the Environment. Speaking time for Members shall be limited to two minutes, including the submission of any motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u2	Mr. Chairman. I'll be brief. This debate is about the Grevelingen and Lake Volkerak-Zoom. There's a lot of good things in the planning for that. My group has a request to the Minister. In this way, I will pass that on to the Minister instead of a motion. The request is as follows: The rich structure vision Grevelingen and Volkerak-Zoommeer is an MIRT exploration, where many things still have to be mapped out. The Environmental Impact Assessment Committee, in addition to the EIA, has promised a more quantified consideration of positive and negative effects on nature, which is to come. The Central Planning Bureau has also made a number of recommendations and suggestions, including a better hydrological basis, a so-called policy poor reference alternative. There is more to it than just drought damage. Then there is the savings yarn plan which is being examined further. The results will be sent to the Chamber in November 2015. All in all, my group calls on the Minister not to make irreversible decisions before the Water legislative consultation that we will hold in the autumn, without expressly consulting the Chamber. This is our request. We didn't think it was necessary to pack that in a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u3	Mr. Chairman. The examination of the draft rich structure vision Grevelingen and Volkerak-Zoommeer follows two written consultations. The PvdA Group received sufficient answers to its questions in the written consultations. We agree with the Minister's proposal to bring back the tide in the Grevelingen and Volkerak-Zoom Lake. We consider this measure to be very important for water quality and we see it as a solution to the problem of blue algae there. It is good for nature, fishing, recreation and tourism. The draft rich structure vision was developed in good consultation between regions, the Empire and social partners. All provinces and the waterboards support this plan. Our main criticism is the financing of the EUR 350 million plans. It's not quite finished yet. The question for the Minister is how she is going to get the money for this important project.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u4	Mr. Chairman. We have had two written rounds of consultations and the coming period we will continue to talk about the National Water Plan 2, for which a whole stack of design visions is ready. I would like to stress that the VVD Group attaches importance to sufficient fresh water for our economic sectors. After two written rounds, we still have concerns about this. The Minister announced a number of measures in her reply, but there are some uncertainties. Mr Smaling mentioned a number of studies that are still ongoing. Funding is a cause for concern, but also the fact that all the measures still need to be examined. That is why we have prepared the next motion. I would like to receive a commitment from the Minister. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the salinisation of Lake Volkerak-Zoom is not easily understood in terms of fresh water supply;]] [[Whereas alternative freshwater supply measures are still in the research phase;]] [[calls on the government to ensure an adequate supply of fresh water for the future in the final province of Grevelingen and Volkerak-Zoommeer,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Visser.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33531-5]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u5	Unfortunately, there are not enough Members present in the Chamber to support the tabling of this motion. We're gonna find some extra supporters.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u6	I note that the tabling of the motion is now sufficiently supported.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u7	Mr. Chairman. This is a special VSO, because motions sometimes come in the form of a question and sometimes in the form of a motion. I think I can promise anything that's been asked. I'll do that. Maybe now the members wish they'd asked for more. The SP asked not to make irreversible decisions for the legislative consultation on water that will take place in the autumn without consulting the Chamber. I can promise. The reason for this is that we still have to pay with the region. That's gonna take a while, so I expect this to be a little bit in that period too. Somehow the Chamber will have to organise legislative debate, otherwise it will take too long. If this does not happen or is too late, I will simply send the Chamber a letter with what I intend to do. Then the Chamber can debate this separately. So I'm saying this. Mr Smaling mentioned a number of investigations. Actually, the file's been studying for ten years. The effects are described in detail in the SMEA, which has been approved by the CPB and the PBL. At the request of the Commission for the m.e.r. An additional study will be done. Mr Spaargaren's study is much more about the long term and the adaptive approach. All of this may or may not be ready at that time, but there will be more available at least on which the SP can form its opinion. Now I come to Mrs Jacobi's question about financial coverage for the area development programme Grevelingen and Volkerak-Zoommeer. The total cost of the Rijksstructuurvisie is 350 million. Of this, 30 million has already been covered for the Flakkeese spuisluis and the Roode Vaart. 65 million has been covered by funding from the Delta Freshwater Programme. These are the freshwater measures that we had to take in the first place. There is also 85 million savings due to optimisation and market involvement. It was brought in by the different parties. So we are now at 170 million out of 350 million. The province and the Empire also want to contribute, subject to the question of whether or not the project is going ahead. The province's contribution is currently at 20 million and I and M's contribution is at 30 million. There's still a hole left. The various parties are currently looking at this together. They are thinking, for example, of EU subsidies, savings in high maintenance and territorial cooperatives. So everyone's on the clock. I have been very clear about the fact that I would like to participate in this plan. However, I have a limited budget, so we have to bring the money together in the end. We're working hard on that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u8	The Minister mentioned the EU subsidies. I would like to have a brief reflection on the possibilities available to fund this from, for example, the Juncker Fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u9	The Juncker Fund is often mentioned, but it provides loans. So it doesn't solve so much the question of financing. It is much more convenient to look at subsidy budgets that are also many in the European context. We have a number of programmes in mind. The Juncker Fund is more focused on enabling the acceleration of investment. Eventually, you're gonna have to pay back that money and we're gonna be stuck with the same hole. But I'm not saying no either, because this might be one of the parts. However, it seems more convenient to me to look for real money. Finally, I come to the motion of the VVD. In that motion, the government is asked to ensure an adequate supply of fresh water for the future in the final National Structure Vision Grevelingen and Volkerak-Zoommeer. I will also make a commitment in advance. The VVD should see what she's doing with the motion. A good freshwater supply is very important to us. It is also part of the Delta programme. Rich and region will take on funding for this. So we take responsibility ourselves and do not shift it to other parties. We already have plans as to what this should look like. The special thing is that something needs to be done about this fresh water supply anyway. Now everything came together, like salting the lake. This made it more resistant to all kinds of problems at present, such as water impurity, economic attractiveness and guaranteeing that fresh water supply. I am happy to say so. Those were the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u10	Not quite.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u11	A clear commitment from the Minister, including when answering the questions of the SP Group. There are several routes, such as an EIA procedure with respect to the Nieuwe Waterweg. I hereby withdraw the motion. There is a commitment for the autumn. If the final rich structure vision is there then, including the funding, we will see how the account is divided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u12	Since Mr Fisher's motion (No) has been withdrawn, has ceased to be the subject of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u13	That's good for his condition.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u14	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u15	I received another message following Mrs Jacobi's question on the Juncker Fund. Only the tidal power station will be eligible for this, because it is a private initiative. This also explains why it is good to focus on other funds in particular.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u16	There will be no vote, because there will be no more motions. I thank the Minister for her presence and the answers given.
