ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-5.u1	I would like to welcome the initiators, Mrs Mulder and Mr Nijboer, and the Minister for Finance, to the Upper House.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. The Finance Committee has authorized me to speak on her behalf. I am happy to do so, not least because this is an initiative legislative proposal. That's always a special achievement. The authors, Mrs Mulder, Mr Nijboer, and in them also a predecessor, Mr Van Hijum, deserve a compliment. Anyone who has been sitting here in the public gallery for the past few months would almost think that it is normal for Members of Parliament to knock on the door with an initiative bill passed across the street. But of course it's not like that. At least it asks what the word implies, namely initiative. At least it requires persuasion. And at least it requires perseverance. These are admirable qualities, especially in combination. This initiative proposal amends the Financial Supervision Act and a number of other laws. The proposal aims to create clear frameworks within which credit unions can be set up and operate in the Netherlands. A credit union is, within the context of the proposal, a cooperative whose members, on the basis of their profession or business, are admitted to the membership of the cooperative which makes its business of attracting from its members recoverable funds and of making credit exposures to its members on its own account for the purposes of the professional or business activity of those members. The aim of the proposal is to give scope to new initiatives on business finance, in particular for SMEs. The aim of the proposal by the proposers is thus to address a serious problem. Entrepreneurs, particularly SMEs, often have great difficulty in obtaining credit. And credit is, in many cases, essential to be able to undertake. That makes the bill a child of our time. Until the credit crisis, this problem did not exist or hardly existed. Banks generously lent money to citizens and entrepreneurs. As a result of the credit crisis, the rules for banks have been considerably tightened in recent years. The consequence, in itself, is that banks have limited lending to entrepreneurs. But that has again constrained entrepreneurs in what they are good at, namely doing business. The initiators felt that they should do something about this. That's nice. They are trying to address a real problem. The Committee on Finance warmly welcomes this attempt. The proposal removes blockades which may currently impede the establishment of a credit union as envisaged in the proposal. We would like to raise three more issues. Firstly, we would like to discuss the impact in more detail with the initiators. The aim of the proposal is clear. But can the initiators assess to what extent the proposal will be used, if it is adopted by this House? What research have they done in this connection? What quantitative or qualitative information have they collected in order to come to the conclusion that this bill, in this form, will contribute to solving the problem? And when, in their view, is this proposal a success? How much credit is then provided in this way, how many credit unions are being set up, how many entrepreneurs are expected to join? I would like to hear an answer from the initiators to these questions. Secondly, we are intrigued by Article 3:38c. That is to say: 'A credit union with its seat in the Netherlands has a maximum amount of funds recoverable under ministerial rules and a maximum number of members'. What was the inspiration of the authors of this article? Why do they place this responsibility on the Minister, and precisely through a ministerial arrangement? This brings me to my third and final point. We would like to hear from the initiators, and also from the Minister, how the credit unions they aim to relate to the banking sector. Suppose this bill of credit unions makes a huge success. So what is the consequence for the banking sector? It is to be expected that, by definition, there will be competition with the banks in respect of credit. How do the initiators and the minister look at this? Is it a side effect that the initiators aim to achieve, partly in view of the fact that the proximity of the cooperative form is precisely a reaction to the scale increase? We would like to hear a more detailed explanation from the initiators and the Minister. We look forward with interest to the replies of Mrs Mulder, Mr Nijboer and the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-5.u3	Thank you very much, Mr Essers. Does one of the other Members wish to speak in the first place? I see that is not the case. We are now ready for the response of the initiators and the government. Mrs Mulder has the floor first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-5.u4	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the warm words from the First Chamber and the broad support we have for this initiative legislative proposal. The spokesman on behalf of the Finance Committee rightly said that I initially tabled this initiative legislative proposal together with Eddy van Hijum. Fortunately, when he left the House of Representatives, colleague Henk Nijboer was willing to take the place of Eddy van Hijum and to defend this initiative proposal with me and to further promote it. In fact, the initiative to create credit unions is even from a previous cabinet period. My predecessor, Ad Koppejan, spoke to a number of entrepreneurs who said: lending in the Netherlands is going badly and we would like to find a way in which entrepreneurs can finance other entrepreneurs. So they no longer wanted to depend solely on the banking sector, but they wanted to be able to finance each other. Some entrepreneurs have just done well and want to put their money into other companies. This can of course be done now via an e.g., but then the entrepreneur himself is also 100% liable for the risk. So these entrepreneurs came to us and asked us to come up with other proposals. They also came up with the idea of credit unions. In many other countries, these credit unions are also used. So the question comes from society itself. It is very important that entrepreneurs can take their own initiative and take advantage of these opportunities. Companies that grow and change need credit. It creates jobs. All those present know that jobs are still very much needed in our society at the moment. This brings me to an answer to the first question that has been asked about the impact of the legislative proposal that is now before us. What's our estimate? I begin by saying that this means is not, of course, the sacred grail for solving the problems of financing SMEs. However, this is very interesting for a large number of SMEs. They can get to work and use this as a good option. However, it is certainly not the only option. For example, we see that credit unions can also serve as co-financers. Entrepreneurs can act together with banks, but also together with private equity funds or pension funds, for example. Crowdfunding can also play a role in this. A whole palette of instruments can be deployed. These instruments can be used side by side, allowing our companies to move on. Many credit unions await the adoption of this bill. That's what the guys report themselves. They are very keen to proceed with their credit unions, even after the exemption from European credit. Perhaps our adviser, the Minister, will look into the question of when this exemption will take place. There'd be a couple of dozens in the starting blocks right now. A very nice direct example of this I saw recently in Assen at the football association ACV. There said a former entrepreneur, who had sold his company by now: Agnes, I am in the process of creating a credit union in Assen, North Drenthe and I see your name everywhere; I know this has to go through the Chambers; we want to get to work here in North Drenthe, so do you want to get to work on that? Recently my colleague Henk Nijboer and I also spoke with credit unions in Eastern Groningen. They are also enthusiastic about it. In this way many examples come to us. The entrepreneurs just want to get going. This lending will not go directly into the hundreds of millions of euros, but in the longer term it is intended that they will make a substantial contribution to our economy and bring about growth as a whole. We also get this information from the credit unions themselves. The first dozens of credit unions have now started to work and are waiting to get started. In its report of October last year, the ESC considers credit unions to be a real solution to the problems of lending in the Netherlands. It is therefore one of the solutions for the stalled credit market for SMEs. We see that credit unions in other countries can be very successful. They contribute substantially to lending to SMEs. The proposers see it as an ideal image for our country that we can grow there. This will not be the case in the first few years. We are aware of this, but we believe that we can help them with this law to take a step in the right direction. Entrepreneurs should be able to take credit in their own industry or region and thus contribute to a more diverse supply of business finance. The good thing is that these entrepreneurs are involved with each other. They have them in their industry or in their region. This extra involvement and the coaching that the entrepreneurs give each other means that the success rate of these entrepreneurs is greater than if they were only financed by a bank, if they were already given credit there. In the final analysis, if credit unions play a substantial role, the legislative proposal has achieved its objective in the eyes of the proposers. The second question of the First Chamber is why responsibility is placed on the Minister. My colleague Henk Nijboer will deal with this later, and perhaps the Minister will also say a few words about it. The third question was: what are the consequences for the banks? The applicants do not see direct competition with the banks. Credit unions should be complementary in areas where banks no longer lend credit to companies or certain groups of companies. Hence, it is possible to set up business from within the industry. For example, we see this at the BOVAG or at the bakers. It may happen that a baker from Zeeland needs credit and wants to give a baker from Drenthe credit. We can encourage this further. Sometimes it's a simple machine, like an oven of €60,000, which allows you to maintain employment. We see such examples. In the longer term there might be some competition, but that would be quite good for the Dutch market. Our financial sector is not very broad at the moment. We do need this broadening, otherwise our country will be very vulnerable. However, the exemption limits are still quite low. Real competition with the banks may not be too bad. We also want flexibility through underlying legislation. Perhaps Mr Nijboer will answer that later when he answers the second question. We want to give SMEs the opportunity to really grow. Therefore, the applicants do not intend to compete directly with banks, but should this be the case, this is not an undesirable effect. The banks could use a little more competition. This will only benefit the lending market. We, as proposers, think it is very important that credit unions should be given the opportunity to develop. They are initiatives from society. That could be what helmsman's art is. That is why the Minister has the opportunity to adapt borders, but in the light of what the proposers are aiming at, namely a simpler instrument than a normal banking instrument, the common union and prudent solvency requirements. All this leads to less supervisory costs than a normal bank, but there is more internal supervision with members who teach each other and control each other. If this Chamber adopts the law, we hope that entrepreneurs will pick up the gauntlet and thus create jobs. That's what our country needs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-5.u5	Mr. Chairman. It is a special time to exercise the oldest right of the House of Representatives: the right of initiative. This right arose at the same time as the Constitution in 1814 with the right of consent or alignment of a legislative proposal. At that time, that initiative was presented to the prince. At that time, the First Chamber was also appointed by the prince. It's different these days. Until 1878 friendly members of the First Chamber defended the bill. Nowadays, the House of Representatives has been granted the right to defend itself in your Senate. I'd like to go into that. Mr Mulder has already answered the first and third questions of your Chamber. I was asked one more question. He sees the ministerial arrangement. For that, I would like to go back to the three main objectives of this law. First of all, Mrs Mulder and I aim to improve lending in the Netherlands. SMEs, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises, have a very difficult access to credit. This has proved to be extensive in recent years. You just have to come into a room somewhere in the country where entrepreneurs meet, which also senators may occasionally experience, and you hear their complaint: we get almost no credit from the banks anymore. And the Netherlands is very dependent on bank finance. We want to encourage other possibilities for lending. That is the second objective of the law: a more diverse financing landscape. This can, of course, be done with more equity, but also with different channels of lending. One of these channels could be credit unions. For example, credit unions in the United States, England and other countries of the European Union are much more successful in financing companies than in the Netherlands. Our conviction is that this is partly due to our current Banking Act. It imposes very strict conditions on the establishment of a bank. These are, moreover, very valid conditions, because if a consumer entrusts his savings to something, strict conditions are also required. But if entrepreneurs want to lend money to each other and you let that same law apply to it, then the lending will not start. You can see that happening in other countries. You can also see that there is demand in the Netherlands. There are already dozens of applications for credit unions. They are already being created by means of a detour, through perpetual loans, but that is outside the legal framework that is tailored to this. We wanted to create the legal framework for this. The third consideration is that there are initiatives from society. Legislation does not always anticipate social developments, to use an understatement. The CDA and the PvdA have united in this. They saw something beautiful, what entrepreneurs want, what they want to do through detours, through perpetual loans, but actually get a little bad done, and they want to support it with legislation. That explains why we have released quite a lot in the case of ministerial regulations. It is a new development. If, in law, you define precisely the limits within the meaning of "he may not have more than 1,000 members" or "it may not be more than so many million," then the extent to which the legislator can act on what is happening in society is limited, on what is being done in society. We have therefore deliberately chosen to do so in the case of ministerial arrangements, so that there is flexibility to respond to what is going to happen with credit unions. Moreover, we have had a whole debate in the House of Representatives on the legal limits. After all, you do not want billions in a credit union and then turn them upside down with fairly limited supervision. That is not the intention, of course. What is initially thought of is what the Minister is given. One could also ask him if it is a limit of between 10 and 100 million for credit union supervision and a maximum of 25,000 members. That also has a practical impact. For example, BOVAG is very interested in establishing a credit union. The number of members of the BOVAG is slightly below 25,000. This is a practical example of garage owners who want to have the opportunity to lend each other in case a bank does not want to do so. That's what's being thought of. It is then up to the Minister to fill that out. During the examination of the legislative proposal, the House of Representatives specifically called for attention to be paid to having an impact on the values finally chosen. We will discuss this further with the Minister, as I say in my role as a Member of Parliament and not as initiator. It has been deliberately chosen not to lay this down by law because this is a new development. Every year, or every two years, in the Chamber, we will discuss with the Minister how this bill works in practice. It can then be adapted to social developments and demand from the sectors. Sometimes things go wrong. We must be honest about the fact that this sometimes happens with new initiatives. So perhaps there is still some need to be repaired or adapted. But that can always happen if you make a bill that aims to make new developments possible. That is why we have provided the necessary flexibility in the legislative proposal. Then I should like to express my thanks for the opportunity to defend the legislative proposal here in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-5.u6	Mr. Chairman. I will briefly address two points and a little longer on the subject to which I have been specifically addressed. The first is the reason for the ministerial arrangement. The initiators have put that very well and I would like to endorse it. We have explored, with the initiators and the Chamber, what the key figures should be: the boundaries, the minima, the ceilings, etc. We have, of course, also looked at what has already grown and developed in other European countries with a sloppy eye, also because we think that this will give the Commission the necessary scope to deal with European legislation. That is my second point, on which I would like to say a few words. As soon as the legislation has been passed in the First Chamber, we are going to report in Brussels what it looks like. Therefore, we provide an insight into the underlying regulation as soon as possible. Hopefully, the Commission will soon be able to give the green light and the cooperation we need. I cannot really set a date for this, because I do not have the European Commission on a string. However, we are doing our utmost to ensure that this is done quickly. Then the cabinet was asked very specifically what this means for the banking sector. Is it perhaps even a threat to the banking sector if this is a major success? Looking at the banking sector in the Netherlands and at all the financing of Dutch SMEs, diversity is a great asset. We are therefore very interested in diversifying capital supply and capital supply for SMEs. The vulnerability of lending, which is so dependent on the banking sector, has also been demonstrated in recent years. So diversity is good. The same applies to competition. Competition in the Dutch banking landscape is only good. This also applies, for example, to the mortgage market, where we welcome new providers, because we believe that competition in the Dutch banking sector is good and sensible. What distinguishes the credit union from the banking sector? In the credit union, there is the aspect of mutual trust, involvement and knowing each other. Where necessary and desirable, guidance and coaching can be connected to this very directly. These are all factors of strength compared to the large banks, which, given the size of their portfolio and risk management, will be more businesslike and detached. This really is from entrepreneur to entrepreneur. Moreover, according to our estimates, and I also thought of the initiators' estimation, the transaction costs in this model may be more limited than they currently are in banking lending. From the market forces in the SME funding market, there are therefore only positive elements: more diversity and more competition. Moreover, I believe that banks will continue to play a very important role. Nor should we expect credit unions, even if they are very successful, to be able to take over the entire financing of SMEs. Frankly, that is unthinkable given the size of the portfolios. However, credit unions are a very welcome addition. I think that the funding market for Dutch SMEs will work a lot better.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-5.u7	We have arrived at the second term of office. I call Mr Essers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-5.u8	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank both initiators and the Minister for the clear answer. That really only gives reason to expand my laudatio a little bit. I have heard a few things that we very much like to hear in this Chamber. It has been said to address a question that comes from society. There is clearly a problem and that is why the initiators come up with a solution. Greetings for that! It sounds obvious, but it isn't always. Sometimes we ask ourselves: what exactly is the purpose of this law? That's very clear here. Loans to SMEs are lagging behind. This proposal contributes to the resolution of this problem. On the one hand, the bill radiates a sense of reality. The initiators do not promise golden mountains; it is said that things should slowly find their way. On the other hand, the bill also exudes ambition. After all, it can produce a great deal of success. It can prove itself: the initiators create the conditions to make it a success, without already having enormous expectations. What appeals to us very much is that the initiators aim for flexibility; not everything is boarded up. That is why we attach considerable importance to ministerial responsibility. By setting all kinds of ratios now, you would completely shut down the developments and a new legislative proposal would be needed in no time. I think this is a very sensible road. The initiators already indicated that the Chamber, the Parliament, will keep the finger on the wrist and see how that all works. The diversity also appeals to us very much. There is, of course, a great deal of diversity, including within small and medium-sized enterprises. Perhaps the main problem is not even that there is a lack of credit to SMEs, but that there is too little connection between the very large banks and the various small SMEs. I believe that this initiative offers a very good opportunity to return to customisation. At the same time, it is a challenge for the existing banking sector to take more initiatives. Once again, it is important to be very close to the entrepreneur and to ensure that existing ambitions are managed and successfully completed. In other words, I also foresee competition, but with the Minister I say that this is not a problem at all. That keeps everyone awake. For the rest, I think it is a great challenge to make this new form of lending a great success. I would therefore like to conclude by congratulating both initiators and the Minister on this new instrument.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-5.u9	Mr. Chairman. I am very pleased that both Chambers are enthusiastic about the fact that society itself is getting back to work on this. This is where it has to be done; new jobs are created, and families benefit from it. I believe that all SME entrepreneurs who will be able to obtain their funding in this way are grateful to the two Chambers. By the way, they have to do it themselves. They have to make good plans; it doesn't happen by itself. Just like at other times, they have to back everything up. I would also like to point out that we have had the support of some of the group's advisers and staff in making this initiative proposal. I would like to thank them again in this way. You have to do it together; without good cooperation nothing can be done. I would like to thank them again from this point of view. I would also like to express my thanks for the fact that we were able to defend this initiative proposal in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-5.u10	Does Mr Nijboer wish to add anything else? No, that's not the case. Neither does the Minister for Finance make use of this possibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-5.u11	The bill is passed without a vote.
