ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister, as well as the Members of Parliament and the people who are following this debate in any way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u2	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Members for their questions and comments. I want to set my first term as follows. I will start with a few introductory words to put the budget in a more specific context. I shall then turn to a number of issues raised by the spokesmen yesterday. Before I do all that, I would like to say that I like to keep to the order of the Chamber. Yesterday, in the first term of the Chamber, Mr Voordewind made a point of order on part of my budget. Others have also asked for this. I have already set out a number of points in the written reply, but I would like to say a few words here. The point made by Mr Voordewind was about the increased influx of asylum seekers and the increased cost estimates for 2015 and 2016. The question was what these will mean for the 2016 budget. This point was made in response to a letter from the Ministers of V and J and Finance. Several Members of Parliament have pointed out that they would like a little more insight into the method of financing first-year care. Since 1992, the costs of first-year reception of asylum seekers have been financed by the ODA budget. That is an international agreement made at OECD-DAC level. The fluctuations in the asylum influx of recent years show that it is difficult to plan the expected costs. That is why, in recent years, we have always dealt with any fluctuations in the Spring and Autumn notes. That's what I want to do now. It is clear that the rising costs of first-year care are making a heavy change in the ODA budget. A motion for a resolution has also been tabled to the General Political Reviews, the motion for a resolution Slob c.s. (34300, No. 23). Tomorrow, the Cabinet will discuss the Navy's note. I can't anticipate that discussion yet, but the Navy note will give us more insight. As I understand it, the Navy Note will soon be sent to the Chamber. Then, of course, she has the opportunity to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u3	My interruption has to do with this subject. I call on my colleagues to speak briefly about this again next week. That opening offers the Minister. At least the CDA Group needs it. Otherwise, we really do not know what is going on with the total use of resources. We are discussing a budget here this evening, which is precisely about the overall use of resources. So I think that would be very useful.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u4	It is quite a lot, from 27,000 to 58,000 asylum seekers; that is a doubling. In my view, these 27,000 asylum seekers provide a cost in the rate of EUR 350 million. There's also a panic element in it, because you have to look for things on a set and a jump. It's a lot of money. We are discussing the 2016 budget today. That's why we're here today. The Minister should at least be able to give an approximate indication of where the additional EUR 300, 400 or 500 million will come from. Otherwise we cannot talk seriously about a budget here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u5	I appreciate the concern expressed by Mr Bosma about my budget and its sustainability. As I said, the proposals will be before the Cabinet Council tomorrow on the Navy note. It will be discussed and, unfortunately, I cannot anticipate that. I am, of course, very happy to discuss it with the Chamber at any time after the publication of the Autumn note.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u6	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u7	Let me now move on to my brief introduction. International cooperation is actually part of our identity for the Netherlands. Given the situation in the world, this cabinet aspires to a greater than a lesser role in international cooperation. More and no less political direction is needed to reverse unbalanced and unfair development, to combat inequality and to prevent decline in the area of recovery. The crisis that we have seen in recent years, the current migratory flows and recent outbreaks of violence, not only in the Middle East, but also in Burundi and the Central African Republic, strengthens the government's views. The dividing lines of the past are becoming less and less relevant. Anyone can notice that. Because here's there and there's here. The battle in Syria has impact in the streets of Paris, a few hours from our borders. Refugees I met in Lebanon and Jordan I now meet in the sports hall around the corner. Developments in countries that used to be far away now make themselves felt in the smallest villages of our country. That's not all. We also see it in the intertwinedness of international trade flows and in production chains that no longer occur in one country, but throughout the world. We can also see that more than less international cooperation and guidance is needed. For the Netherlands, this is not very different than it used to be, because we have been earning our income for hundreds of years. International cooperation, as I said, is inextricably linked to our national identity. As a small country, we exist by the grace of a very large outside world. We earn a third of our income from trade and investment outside our borders. This also gives us a third of our employment, about 2.2 million jobs. We remain the gateway to Europe, as it is so beautifully called, with our ports and logistics facilities. In the new "doing business ranking" of the World Bank, the Netherlands scores top of the list when it comes to low-threshold international action for companies. This is good for our competitiveness, our jobs and our citizens. Fortunately, globalisation has brought prosperity to other parts of the world as well. I have said it many times: extreme poverty has been halved, inequality between countries has been reduced, former developing countries themselves are now helping others and their valued trading partners. The most beautiful thing is that it is within our reach to ensure that this generation of people in this room is going to experience that hunger is something of our parents and grandparents. We can eradicate hunger by 2030. We need an extra effort to do this, because globalisation is not self-evidently good for everyone. We must ensure that the poorest and disadvantaged groups are involved and that they also have access to jobs, education and care, and that they can decide for themselves what matters to them. Globalisation has many good sides, but it can also be a unleashed beast. It calls for regulation and commitment to create a level playing field for all. The good news is that we can do this. The recent report of results from the field of development cooperation and external trade shows once again what the results we have achieved with this direction on resources and through politics and diplomacy. All this can be read on the website reichsoverheid.nl: Kamerbrief on Development results in images, edition 2015. The end of the age when more tax money is leaking out of Africa than development aid is now real and irreversible. I say it specifically to Mr Smaling, but it concerns all of us. The Netherlands has renewed in this cabinet period by merging the portfolios for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation. That seems to be customization for this time frame. It also finds broad imitation, for example in the European Union. This brings its trade and investment strategy to the Dutch example. Indeed, investments in stability have stronger catalysing effects. Last month, world leaders agreed on the new global goals, the new global agenda. We can only live up to these ambitions if we invest not only in development aid, but also unlock a multitude of new investments. Governments, businesses, civil society organisations, all of us must work together. If we're gonna get those goals, we're gonna have to get everyone on board. This is a moral task, but it also generates economic growth and prosperity. The most effective investment could be to ensure that women can participate fully in the labour market and in political processes. If women can and may aspire to the same level... No, I am going to say it differently, because they can, of course, as I say to Mr Bert Wagendorp. If women are allowed to participate at the same level, the world could gain 26% of gross product, up to 60% in India. So we have a fine job to do. The world is changing and also changing the proportions. I'll say a little more about that in a moment. You saw this, for example, at the Valletta Summit on Migration.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u8	I see Mrs Mulder has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u9	Thank you for the comprehensive written reply. We have just been able to read them before this debate. The Minister's reply included a very clear table on the civil society channel; thank you for that. In her speech, therefore, I would like to comment on the need for all parties, including civil society organisations. The Minister himself has said to the Chamber that it is important that on average 25% of the funds are spent effectively through this channel. We see the figures up to 2014 in the table. Can we also receive the figures for 2015 and 2016? If so, how long will that be possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u10	I'd love to be Mrs Mulder for her sake, but this is getting a little tricky. I'll tell her why, too, because it's not unwilling. As Mrs Mulder knows, I do not send on channels but on effectiveness. Therefore, only a limited part of the budget is committed for civil society organisations. We are therefore sure that the funds will go to these organizations. It is a flawed image for 2016 and the same goes for 2015. The figures are simply not available at the moment. I would like to say to Mrs Mulder that I would like to list the tenders that have already been put out so that we can debate them at a later date. So the image is not complete yet and that has everything to do with that I do not send on channels but on effectiveness.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u11	Thank you for this commitment. We may be able to include this in the Spring paper. After all, we will also involve the issues of migration; first-year care. Then we are already working on getting the figures in the right order. The CDA would like that very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u12	This could be done in that cycle for 2015 at least. For 2016 it is still difficult, but for 2015 it seems possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u13	Thank you to the Minister for giving this overview for 2015. Then at least we have an assessment. The Minister states in his reply that it is difficult, also in connection with the passing on of the first-year reception of asylum seekers. In the written reply she writes that the percentage will go down. That is, of course, my question: to what extent will that affect the percentage again in 2016 and how will the Minister prevent it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u14	Mr Voordewind says it correctly. A growing part of the budget in 2015 went to the first year reception of asylum seekers. We do not do this through civil society organisations. Although these organisations do play an important role in this, this does not happen through a financing relationship with my ministry. Because of this growing part of the budget, the budgetary ratios are changing. Mr Voordewind sees it sharply: this means that the 25% is more out of sight than without that component in the budget. I would like to repeat what I promised Mrs Mulder: I will return to the Spring paper on 2015. Then I might also be able to give a little more insight into 2016. It's not about absolute amounts, it's really about percentage.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u15	I am asking for this because the Labour Party, as well as the Minister himself, has indicated earlier that they really want to keep up with the 25% standard. That is why the question is whether she is going to make it before 2016. Is that her bet? If you have the rising line with those first-year expenses, it goes down, as the minister himself said. Despite the fact that these costs exist, does she still want to try to hold on to that 25%? I think that is an important point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u16	I have to be real. Of course, the chances of reaching exactly that 25% or above have decreased; let us be clear about that. I still have the percentage as a kind of target on my desk and try to go there. I have also always said that one year it can be a little more and the other year it can be a little less. That's how I'm standing. Mr. Chairman. Before I get to the trouble, I would like to say something about the changing world situation and why this aid, trade and investment agenda fits so well into that. Former developing countries have become trading partners and are now providing assistance to other countries themselves. On the Vallettatop, which took place a few weeks ago, you see those sliding panels. It was a good top. A number of spokesmen said yesterday that they did not appreciate that summit so positively, but that really is a very different perception than I received from the people who were there. It is not just about my colleague Mr Koenders and the Prime Minister, but rather about fellow African ministers that we very much appreciate that we talked at that summit about a broad range of subjects and that it is about equality. It is clear that there is a common and shared responsibility for the problems and challenges we face. In short. More international cooperation, rather than less. More political direction and control. Better rules for a level playing field. More modern trade agreements. Sharper surveillance. Fight corruption and mistrust with transparency. Address poverty, inequality, aggression, violence and conflict by working even better with the forces that like us want to work on a better world. I make the bridge to Mr Smaling's intervention, who wondered what it would look like if we had to start again. I can see the niceness of it. It is always good to ask you that question, but I would like to say to Mr Smaling that we have done this precisely in recent years. The policy is based on a whole new approach. Trade, aid and investment are in one portfolio. Poor countries want a different relationship with us, not just help. On the basis of the WRR report "Less pretention, more ambition" we have put more focus. Four spearheads followed. It looks at the added value. We are not just putting ODA at the centre, we are also looking at how to use the other 80% of capital flows towards developing countries for this inclusive development. Policy coherence is what we focus on. These include taxes, access to medicines, working conditions in, for example, textiles and trade agreements. In addition, it is not just about government-to-government, but also about partnerships with a diversity of players. I would like to say to Mr Smaling that we have done so and that is also very much in line with the time frame.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u17	I have another question about the Valletta Summit, which the Minister has just spoken about. I had asked questions about that, too. Thank you for the very comprehensive answer. One of the questions is from which pot the amount of 1.8 billion comes from the European Union. Is that from general budget support or is it from somewhere else?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u18	That's a very good question. This EU contribution is not from budget support, but from somewhere else. If Mrs Mulder is okay with it, I will look into it and answer that question in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u19	I can see that Mrs Mulder is okay with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u20	I will go into detail about the contribution of the Netherlands and to which it is being spent.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u21	It is nice that the Minister is addressing this issue in this way, but in my group's view it is even more fundamental than the Minister has put it. If you look back, the policy has always been adjusted, but you can still say: Pronk had his priorities, Herfkens had her priorities, Van Ardenne had her priorities, Koenders had his priorities, Knapen had his priorities and now this minister has her priorities. But you can also say: we do 50 years of development aid and after 50 years, you get your kids out the door. That is the fundamental question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u22	Mr Smaling is usually very keen to meet me and vice versa. Here, too, there is every reason to do so, because we have also changed relations with countries. We used to only have an aid relationship, but now we have an aid relationship with some countries, a transitional relationship with others and a trade relationship with others. In a number of partner countries, it is explicitly the intention, for example, of Ghana, to be independent of aid by 2020. We are talking about this with Ghana. How do they see that? What is the role of the Netherlands in the run-up to 2020? I think we are doing what Mr Smaling is asking, and that is very sensible. The world doesn't stand still. It's not like we're just gonna say we're gonna do it this way. Just because of this new agenda, I experience a much more similar relationship. We also talk about how that relationship develops. It is not just about the here and now, but also about 2020, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u23	No, the interruptions go in two. That's what we've always agreed on, even now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u24	This is gonna be the second one.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u25	You're going to your second interruption in a row. Oh, no, it's your second remark. Go ahead. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u26	That's okay. What the Minister says is true. My point is that we were once evicted by Indonesia and India, and now by Ghana. That's good, because that's an adulting process. The Minister is enthusiastic about the Malta Summit, but I hear and read less enthusiastic about it. Then you will see that the EU Trust Fund and what we have contributed to it are put into all kinds of things that are largely expressed in general terms. In answering that, I think: is this the future now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u27	I have just said that I will go into more detail about the contribution of the Netherlands and how it will be spent. One of the contributions from the Netherlands concerns a programme in the Horn of Africa, together with Ethiopia. The Ethiopian Prime Minister spoke with our Prime Minister about this programme. Mutual appreciation has been expressed for its implementation. I do not know what Mr Smaling is looking for, because I think we agree. It's not like it used to be, and it's a good thing it is. I don't want to be like old times either, because those days are really over. Before I come to my cubes, I would like to answer a similar question from Mr Taverne. He was talking about offering direction. I can imagine that he is already half convinced by the answers I have given to Mr Smaling, but I am going to give two more examples. You know, that offer steering was a real thing back in the day. Now we have a discussion with countries with which we work. On the basis of what the Netherlands has to offer, we look together with those countries at what they think they need and whether we are the appropriate partner for this; sometimes you just have to say no to each other. For example, over the past one and a half to two years, at the invitation of environmental organisations in Nigeria, the Netherlands has been mediated in a conflict between inhabitants of the Niger Delta and Shell. That's what happened on request. It was a successful mediation in a very complex environment. I will not go into this now; I have spoken about it before. I talked to those environmental organizations there. A reporter was there. He said to these organizations: how do you look at this new adage of the Netherlands, 'aid and trade'? And: I imagine you're sorry that the help is getting a little less. The representative of those organizations said: no, I just heard from the Dutch Good Growth Fund, and that's what we need, investments. So a country like Nigeria needs investment. It needs support to do those things responsibly. He welcomed the commitment of the Netherlands. I have a whole list of good examples, but I'm not going to read them. I just wanted to say that times have really changed in that respect. Of course, the Netherlands is looking at the four priorities, because we want to offer something in which we ourselves have added value. However, we are not the only party to cooperate with countries. I think there is a good balance between what we have to offer and what other countries are asking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u28	This minister wants to lure all kinds of Dutch companies to Nigeria. A lot of companies go away screaming! One example is Brunel, a very large company. I read out the headline: "We've been through the worst things in Nigeria." And then, "What made the difference?" "I cannot go into detail... from closing our offices to serious physical threats to employees." They're stories of massive corruption. People are told in the hallway that if they bribe a certain bobo, their bills will be paid. The minister lures those companies to Nigeria, but that's where the most terrible things happen to them. How ethical is it what the minister does?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u29	Once again, I appreciate what Mr Bosma has to say. Firstly, the people of companies themselves are men and women enough to make their own decisions. Secondly, I know that there are problems in Nigeria, and I do not need Mr Bosma and his article on Brunel in Nigeria. We have an embassy there, and we talk to companies there on a regular basis. There's just a problem there. That does not mean that this problem will always continue and that you cannot oppose it. Of course, we have had discussions on this with the Nigerian Government. A new cabinet has just taken office there. The president was elected, the ministers announced two weeks ago. The new president has strictly broken with a number of practices. As far as I am concerned, that is very much appreciated. I would therefore like to say that Nigeria is on the right track. We are discussing this issue with companies and they can then make their own decisions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u30	Quotes: "I have visited local bobos dressed in an impressive uniform. We were on a small stool and the other on a high chair behind an imposing desk; "First we were caffered out for half an hour, while we had just delivered people and had sent a bill for that. Then we were told that our account was not paid. In the hallway, his employees told him that it could be easily solved if we facilitated their boss." In other words, bribes. The fact that there is a new cabinet in Nigeria is not going to change this kind of practice, is it? We see these practices all over Africa. Many African countries are at the top of all lists of corruption. Apparently, he's in the culture there. Apparently, he's thriving there. That's not gonna change if there's a new cabinet, is it? You must not lure companies to Nigeria, you must warn companies about what may happen to them. Protect our citizens, Minister. Think of Dutch for once. Don't just stand up for the people in Africa, stand up for the Dutch every now and then!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u31	I haven't heard a question, so I'll continue my argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u32	You can respond to what I'm saying, can't you? This is quite fundamental.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u33	I can repeat what I said earlier, but I do not think that is necessary. Before I deal with my block on migration and development, I would like to answer a question from the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u34	You will first have a question from Mr Taverne. I would ask the Minister to go to the cubes with the answer. The introduction will take a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u35	I just wanted to come back to the Minister's answer to a question I asked her earlier. The question follows on from the discussion she had with Mr Smaling. I did not claim that good things do not happen within OS, just not all good things happen within OS. I think that's the crux. The Minister can give one example after another of all the wonderful things that are happening. She does that with conviction and I believe her. However, that does not justify the choice we have made to spend so much money on matters that we still do not know exactly what the effect is. As far as I am concerned, Mr Smaling's question has not been properly answered. In my view, the question is in which cases development cooperation is concerned. Development cooperation is intended to allow a country to develop. Such a development usually comes to a point at some point that the country can only continue. I do not deny that all kinds of innovations have been introduced. At what point, for example, is it said to the current partner countries that they have been given sufficient support and that the Netherlands will stop developing? And I don't mean that another sauce is thrown over it by calling it a trade relationship. We don't have a special OS trade relationship with the US either. At some point it becomes a normal relationship based on trade.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u36	I'm fighting that we don't know what the effects are. I'd like to have that established. Last Monday I presented reports, I refer to the website and I will mention a number of concrete examples, numbers and objectives, to give Mr Taverne and others an insight into the effects. Of course, a decision must be taken at some point. That's what we do, tailormade. There is no single approach for all countries. It is clear that in a number of countries we want to reduce the relationship at some point. I have a letter in preparation to the Chamber explaining all this: on the basis of what criteria it takes place, how we measure it and how the transition is shaped. If Mr Taverne agrees, I will take his comments with him. It is, of course, a justified question at what point in time a country says it wants a relationship with the Netherlands. However, that is a trade relationship and not an aid relationship.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u37	I would like to know from the Minister why it is not possible to establish a framework within which to decide whether an OS relationship can be terminated. If we're gonna do that tailormade thing, we're gonna keep going. Another important question is the following. The Court's investigation showed that the budget does not allow the impact of most of the OS policy to be determined. Is the Minister saying this investigation isn't correct?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u38	Mr Taverne did not hear me say that. However, I have not heard him say that the effects are not visible in the budget either. He said the effects can't be determined. I told him I disagreed with him. Last Monday I promised that not all available information on objectives and impacts would be included in the budget. This was requested by the Chamber in 2011, in other words for Mr Taverne's time. I'd like to consolidate that information. That's where we'll find each other. As regards the framework mentioned by Mr Taverne, I have not expressed myself sufficiently. Of course, there is a balancing framework, because you set out a number of criteria on the basis of which you assess the development of a country. Most relevant is the average income in a country, or the percentage of ODA on the total of the state budget of such a country. A number of criteria are included in the letter. By "tailormade," I mean you're going to see what the temporization might be if a country has done very well for a few years, but has relapsed. Again, there will be a balancing framework. I'd be happy to send that to the Chamber in the letter. Then we can talk about it in detail. Let me add one more sentence to reassure Mr Taverne. Many countries say to donors that they want to stand on their own feet. They have a plan for this and they ask that donors work with them on that plan. So there too, Mr Taverne fears, it is no longer a supply chain. The SGP rightly pointed out that development cooperation is not only a cost for the Dutch citizen, but that expenditure also contributes directly and indirectly to the Dutch economy in the form of more exports, more growth and more jobs. Until recently, that effect was not at all in the calculations of the Central Planning Bureau. The volume of OS expenditure had no impact on the growth of the employment figures of the CPB calculations. However, the CPB has informed us that this has changed. The results of the independent IOB study on domestic aid effects are now reflected in a model for short-term estimates and medium-term analyses. The bottom line is that €1 of Dutch aid will translate into these models to €0.4 additional Dutch exports. Another study claimed larger effects, but the CPB found IOB's research most convincing and will take those figures over. I shall now turn to the specific questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u39	That's good news, because sometimes your questions get answered before you answer them. Can the Minister also indicate how many jobs it would cost if you were to cut OS? We know that for certain parties, including participating in the coalition, those jobs are very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u40	The CPB has let us know that it's going to take that effect. I have to keep the answer to the question by when it's gonna do that. I have not yet seen any calculation of effects, but I would like to draw Mr Dijkgraaf's attention to this. I don't know when the CPB comes with that; it's his own boss.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u41	I would like to know what exactly is going on within the next three months, and I would also like to have a long-term impact. I hear the Minister talking about the short and medium term, but the job transfer is also about the long term. I assume it will have a long-term effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u42	That is a difficult question for me to answer. Again, the Central Planning Bureau is its own boss and it makes its own assessment of the calculations. I can't help but pass those questions on. I'd love to do that, by the way. The CPB will be listening and will undoubtedly want to discuss the long term if this is technically possible. Again, it is not for me to make any commitments on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u43	The Minister can, of course, submit several requests to the CPB. I've got another one. If the reasoning is that development aid is good because it creates jobs in the Netherlands, it is of course much more interesting to know how job growth would be if you did not send that money through Africa but simply spend it directly in the Netherlands or, for example, in the form of relief for the Dutch economy. Is the Minister prepared to take that calculation too, so that we can put it against each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u44	I didn't file a request with the Central Planning Office. That's about his own math models. We politicians can sometimes have our own thoughts on this, but that is the case. So I say to Mr Bosma what I also said to Mr Dijkgraaf, namely that it is up to the Central Planning Office to weigh that. I want to direct everything they make, but it's really not up to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u45	I know, but a request would be nice. If you could take that, I'd appreciate it very much. It is therefore about the impact if you allow it to benefit the Dutch economy, not through development aid, but directly through reduction of charges.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u46	Again, it is not for me to make requests to the CPB, but I assume that they have turned on the radio and heard everything. Then I'll get to the cubes. Let me briefly state what those cubes are. They're not all the same tall. The first block on migration and the root causes of migration will be the most comprehensive. Next, I will briefly address the global goals, the new agenda. I will deal in particular with women's rights and sexual reproductive rights. Let me say a few words about climate change and COP21. I will also say a few words about corporate social responsibility. In response to Mr Vos' contribution, I will say something about the organisation of missions. Then there will be a number of points on trade, including the progress of the TTIP negotiations. Those are the topics. First of all, I would like to talk about migration and the root causes. There is a record number of people fleeing, more than 60 million people, 90% of whom are taken care of in the region. At the same time, we see that many people are taking the hard way towards Europe. We also see that the countries in the region are under financial and economic pressure due, among other things, to the great pressure on their public services due to the large number of refugees they are harboring. I therefore agree with Mr Dijkgraaf that an integrated approach is needed on migration. It must be about the causes of migration, border screening, reception here and reception there. We explained this in a letter to the Chamber of 8 September. I'm working hard on that, too. An agreement with Turkey is now being negotiated. I strongly support the conclusion of such partnerships with countries such as Jordan and Lebanon. The Netherlands contributes to emergency aid. Despite this, there is a gross deficit and a large gap between the requests and the commitments. Mr Van Laar made a plea for a radical change in funding, for a change in the architecture of the financing of emergency aid. He says that emergency aid should no longer be dependent only on voluntary contributions, but that there should also be an obligation. That's an attractive perspective, I say. However, it will not be easy to move from the current system of voluntary contributions to more compulsory contributions. I would very much like to address that point internationally. Now's a good time to do that, too. In May, the World Humanitarian Summit will take place and in January, the High-Level Panel on Humanitarian Financing will report. I understand that this panel will also make a number of far-reaching and innovative proposals for financing emergency aid. As soon as that report comes out, I will report to the Chamber. In the meantime, I will not only follow developments within that panel, but also feed on this point and I will work to enter into the debate on a more mandatory contribution. Mr Van Laar also asked very specifically about the Dutch commitment to education within emergency aid. We hear from many people that a lack of educational provision for their children is a reason to leave a region. This means that we should invest much more in local education anyway. Mr Van Laar also mentioned psychosocial aid. That is a broad palette, on which the Netherlands is strongly committed. I'm gonna zoom in on education. There is currently only 1.9% of humanitarian aid going to education. The Netherlands is working with Gordon Brown, United Nations Special Envoy, to spend at least 4% of humanitarian money on education. The Netherlands complies with that standard by 4.9% in 2015. I say to Mr Van Laar that I would like to keep it that way with regard to the Netherlands, but I will also work with other countries that achieve this percentage and, together with the UN Envoy, to bring the importance of education to the attention of fellow donors. I know that, for example, the Norwegians attach great importance to this. Thanks for the encouragement; I'm on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u47	I have a question, but not in response to the answer, because that was very clear; thank you for the commitment. The answer to the written questions states that the cabinet considers education in emergencies to be of the utmost importance, but prefers policy direction. Earmarking to cluster is not desirable and is not necessary in the case of education for the Netherlands, because in practice more than 4% is already spent on it. Can I replace this with the answer you just gave, namely that you are going to mark 4%, that you are going to ensure that this is always guaranteed and that you are going to promote the 4% standard internationally?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u48	I'm definitely gonna pass that standard. The answer relates to the specific administrative marking. It usually only creates administrative burdens. If I can avoid that, I am happy to do so, but I certainly will not let go of the objective.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u49	We are concerned with the result, so if we can see in the reports on emergency aid that the target is being met and continues to be met, that is enough for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u50	I think that's fine. Mrs Van Veldhoven asked about the implementation of the Sjoerdsma motion on criminalising the obstruction of humanitarian aid. We are working on this, I can say to Mrs Van Veldhoven. We are in the process of criminalising it through the International Crimes Act. We have now found out how criminalisation has been organised in other countries. It was part of the motion to look into that and it was wise to do so anyway. The translation into the Dutch legal system is currently being prepared by the Minister for Security and Justice. If there is more to report, I will, of course, be happy to do so, but it is a journey that needs to be carefully completed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u51	I am very pleased with this answer from the Minister. She makes me even happier if she could link the indication of a timeline to it. I understand this is difficult, but that's why I'm talking about an indication. Carefulness is paramount, but it would be nice to know when we can expect it about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u52	I will come back to it, hopefully in second term, because I have to relate myself to my colleague in the field of security and justice. Then I come from emergency aid in the region to more structural aid. A number of MPs asked for this, including Mrs Mulder, but also Mrs Van Veldhoven, Mr Taverne and others. I've been asked to look at partnerships. I'd love to. Lebanon and Jordan must also be involved. We must use a broad palette: aid, but also trade and the removal of trade barriers. I also mention soft loans, for example by the World Bank and the European Investment Bank. I know that, among other things, Mr Taverne attaches great importance to this. Steps have been taken. I thank Mr Taverne for his encouragement. The World Bank has now developed two instruments and the Netherlands is involved in their further design. Soon I will talk to the European Investment Bank about how we can further develop this. Of course, I am also looking into my own budget to see what we can do to support those countries. They do not need to become partner countries. We can do what is necessary, particularly within that very wide range of aid, trade and investment. Let me give you a few brief examples. Together with the NGO SPARK, a scholarship programme will be launched, allowing 20,000 Syrian students to attend higher education in the region of reception. The VNG is active in Jordan together with the municipalities of Amsterdam, The Hague and Almere and also in Lebanon from 2016. They advise local authorities in the areas of water supply, health and safety, but also waste disposal. Advice is given, but concrete efforts are also being made to improve the facilities in such a way that the population of these countries can still benefit from the improvements in the longer term. For example, the water supply in Lebanon is being improved, but so that it will all work in 2025 as well. Work is under way to solve the waste heap. Almere's working on that. That too is a contribution for now and for the future. The cabinet also intends to open up the Dutch Good Growth Fund and the tools for private sector development to Lebanon. That was a request from Mrs Van Veldhoven. Jordan's had that access for a long time. At the beginning of this week, our Embassy in Beirut in Lebanon organised an agro-innovation seminar to help Lebanon improve agricultural production. We are making our agricultural expertise available so that, among other things, the country can make better use of export quotas for the European market.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u53	Many thanks to the Minister for the explicit commitment on Lebanon and Jordan. That was a very important point for my group. I had a motion in preparation, but I do not need to submit it now that the Minister has said: we are ensuring that both countries now have access to the DGGF, because structural aid for that region is necessary. The coalition has already laid down a plan of 35 million. I said in my contribution: double that, make sure these countries can get another 35 million from DGGF. I have proposed some kind of ear tag and I wonder if the Minister is prepared to do so. In this way, we can ensure that these countries can benefit from the resources we have in a structural way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u54	I'm not in favour of ear tags within the Dutch Good Growth Fund, because then you'll all get counters and maybe you'll start working on offer. I would like to say to Mrs Van Veldhoven that we will monitor it carefully. I assume it will be used as soon as we announce it. No ear tags need be a restriction.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u55	I understand the Minister's objections. None of us want to work on offer. Nor do we, as we changed in the first term, but these countries are more new to the fund than the countries that are already in it. Can the Minister at least promise that technical assistance could also be used to make that instrument known in those countries? After all, we want to make sure that they really make use of the opportunities that exist and we want to give them maximum support.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u56	I would like to say to Mrs van Veldhoven that we will make an extra effort. We'll see if we have to do that through technical assistance. It is clear that these countries do not yet know that they are on the list and we are going to change that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u57	I do not want to talk about ear tags, but is it possible, in conjunction with Mr Van Veldhoven, to have extra attention, for example, to the hotspots in the region? I am not referring so much to its technique, but I would like us to keep an eye on the type of location where this extra help could go without identifying precise locations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u58	That is an excellent point from Mr Taverne. We've already talked about that. Much of the untapped potential in these countries is in agriculture, often in the poorer parts of those countries, which are, of course, already being put to such a great test. The ambitions of Dutch entrepreneurs are to a large extent also in the agricultural sector, so I think that supply and demand come together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u59	It's nice when it goes by itself. If the minister keeps an eye on it, so that we can give it a push if it doesn't go by itself, the VVD is completely content.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u60	I would like to do nothing more than make sure that the VVD Group is completely content. I'd really like to take a look at that. We monitor the progress of the DGGF closely anyway. I will also keep an eye on this point. I would like to comment on a question from Mr Taverne. He noted that last week, when the Foreign Affairs budget was discussed, there was a shift in the direction of resources towards the region, provided that the Court agreed to do so. He asked whether the budget of BuHa-OS would no longer allow countries suffering from root causes of migration. Sometimes there's a conflict where people have to leave home and fireplace. Here's what I'd like to say to him. We want, under his encouragement, to create a fund that focuses precisely on the root causes of migration. This fund is aimed at countries from which many people are irregularly migrating, such as Lebanon and Jordan, but also Afghanistan and Somalia. I won't mention the whole list. We want to invest in these countries, for example, to ensure that young people have access to economic vocational education and legal aid. Experienced injustice is often also a reason to leave the country. It is also part of helping young entrepreneurs to create a business plan. I would like to respond to Mr Taverne. In addition to the proposals made last week, I would also like to make room for them specifically within this budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u61	It should not be great in this block with the content making the VVD fraction. I am pleased to note the Minister's commitment. It has told us what type of assistance can be provided. In line with the discussion we have had earlier, has it considered how the indicators can be established in advance so that the effectiveness of aid can be assessed in retrospect?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u62	Of course. This is set out in a tender procedure in which the objectives and criteria are fairly clearly defined. This concerns not only the criteria for participation, but also the intended results. I can reassure Mr Taverne. There is, however, some flexibility. We want to give the organisations that reflect on the tender the opportunity to present their ideas. This must indeed be done with specific objectives and will be evaluated at a later date.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u63	That's good. This is a good first topic to underline the learning process of indicators and impact measurements that we have entered into with a letter in which the Minister indicates to the Chamber what the conditions, requirements and indicators are. Then perhaps we can think a little bit about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u64	A man is never too old to learn. I say again that this method of working is our very own. I note that Mr Taverne feels the need to be more and more fully informed on parts. Let me see how we can best pour that into the barrel without creating any delay in the tender procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u65	It is about emergency aid related to migration flows. To what extent does the Minister call on her colleagues in Europe to make extra money available for this? Is the Minister's conclusion that she is going to use emergency aid in this region as a priority?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u66	The last part of my speech was about structural causes of migration. The fight against it certainly does not come from the emergency aid budget. I am certainly in contact with my colleagues, also because we want to shape programmes together. The use of the emergency aid budget is always based on the humanitarian imperative. This now means that a large part of it goes to the region. We give that aid neutrally and it is only motivated by the humanitarian imperative.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u67	Thank you for that answer. I have another question about our partner countries. To what extent has the Minister considered transferring financial resources to fragile states in the region and the ring around Europe? Is that what she means by that more structural aid? How exactly am I supposed to see that in relation to each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u68	It is ill-advised that Mrs Mulder also does not suggest that if you want to solve a problem somewhere else, you should create a problem somewhere else. Fortunately, we can finance emergency aid and structural support from existing resources. For example, the commitment I just made to Mr Taverne comes from the regular budget. That is precisely what Mrs Mulder is talking about. I then hesitate to shift budgets enormously in other countries, because almost all the countries with which we are partners have a problem of migration. This also applies to a country like Ghana. Wherever possible, we will of course look at this, for example in the Multi-Year Strategic Plans. I believe that one of the Members has asked for this. Where migration, if that is relevant, would not yet be included in those plans because they date from much earlier, we will, of course, include this explicitly. That can really lead to shifts. However, I would not like to say that we are going to do that with one big swing. Again, Mrs Mulder does not ask that. It has our attention in that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u69	In the early days of the SP we were always against everything. Then Jan Marijnissen wrote a book under the title How then, Jan. Since then, we have been thinking about alternatives. I'm sitting here a little bit with the how-ask. The Minister has all kinds of plans to control, control and reverse migration. Is she gonna do that herself? How am I supposed to see that? Then I'll make a little bridge to the amendment. It seems to me that you can do that well by making more use of African and Afghan Dutch, of the diaspora. That could have an enormous catalyzing function. I hope she will be sympathetic to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u70	I am very sympathetic to that. In fact, it's on the two papers I was just about to get started on. I do not know Mr Smaling at all as a neezegger. I'd like to get that taped. I'd be wronging him.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u71	Maybe he was looking for that compliment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u72	I like to give it to you, too. I am not going to go into it in detail, but I will mention a few points which are an answer to Mr Smaling's question. On the one hand, we naturally want to work at EU level on the root causes. That was also a bet from the Valletta Summit. On the other hand, I also have some specific input from the Netherlands. The issue of tackling youth unemployment has really been brought into the Valletta Summit by the Netherlands. I myself made EUR 50 million available for this in the spring. Now don't ask if that's a drop on a glowing plate. We are not going to solve the problem entirely, but it is going to make a contribution. How am I gonna do that? Through the Dutch Good Growth Fund and through a new tender, Local Employment in Africa for Development (LEAD). Four organisations are going to implement that tender in seven countries. These are countries where migration is the greatest problem. Those organizations are SPARK, OxfamNovib, SOS Children's Villages and Hivos. The tender's commitment is to create 15,000 jobs over the next three years. That is what I am saying to Mr Taverne. Here too, we have set real targets at the start. It is therefore a question of creating these jobs, but also of other sources of income as their own businesses for African young people. The Dutch contribution to that EU trust fund, which is EUR 15 million, will be used for a number of purposes. One of these is the creation of more opportunities for vocational education and more employment for refugees reaching the Horn of Africa, so they are there, for example for those 350 000 Somali refugees, Mr Smaling knows that those in Dadaab are in Kenya. In Ethiopia, we want to use them to provide the refugee population there, which includes at least 700,000 people, with better basic facilities and health care, but also to make agriculture more productive by investing in irrigation systems. These are such examples of the commitment. Furthermore, I am strongly encouraged to further strengthen cooperation with the diaspora. I want to do that in a few ways. Within the framework of the Dutch Good Growth Fund (DGGF), we would like to cooperate more closely with these people. I understand that they sometimes experience access to DGGF as difficult. I would therefore like to say once again that there is technical assistance available for the development of business plans in the country of origin. Furthermore, I am now looking at access to the other business tools. A few weeks ago, I further promised to engage in dialogue with young people from the diaspora. How can you best work with each other on a good life there and a good life here? I am going to look at how other countries, for example the United Kingdom, enter into this dialogue, but that sounds a bit soft. What do we have to learn from people who know their country of origin like no other? I am therefore very pleased to meet Mr Smaling and I thank him for his encouragement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u73	I'm glad to hear this. Countries from which refugee flows come and countries from which refugee camps naturally have very different types of problems. It was only on television that people were recruited actively in Senegal, a quiet country, to migrate and travel, through the desert and across the sea. That is a kind of circle and this is, of course, because the money that has been transferred has made up such a large part of the GNP of those countries. I would like to end by asking where the butter is with the fish. I tabled that amendment. I'd appreciate it if we could do business tonight. If the amount is too high for the minister, I'd like to hear it from her. However, I do not think it would be a good idea for her to make just a few promises without responding to the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u74	I do not like to disappoint Mr Smaling at all, but I suspect that our paths here are a little separated. The intention is the same, but I just said that I don't want to make counters in the DGGF. However, I would like to do everything in my power to ensure that diaspora entrepreneurs have maximum access to DGGF. If it is necessary to provide more information or, for example, to provide technical assistance, I am happy to do so. That technical assistance is available to everyone. I say again that I want everyone to be able to use all the facilities. If there are barriers, I will remove them. If there's any need for extra encouragement, I'd be happy to give it to you. But I don't want extra counters. On this point, therefore, I may be a little disappointed by Mr Smaling.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u75	The Minister is going to create 15,000 jobs. I look forward to reporting already. I'm curious to see how the zero readings are going. I am also curious to see how she is going to show that 15,000 jobs are actually being created. I would also like to know what period that will take place. However, there would be 60 million people on the run. Of course, that's just a number and a blow in the air. However, 60 million people would be on the run in the coming years. In addition, 15,000 people aren't even a drop on a glowing plate, are they?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u76	The Netherlands is one of the countries that is proud of being able to help people who have had to leave that home and fireplace, not because they want to, but because they can't do otherwise and because they are driven by violence and conflicts. I would remind you once again of the WRR report that has been published under the title Less pretentious, more ambition. I don't pretend that I can solve all the problems for everyone. It would be nice if we could, but we can't. We do what we can and what lies within our capabilities. We set targets, we set targets. We'll follow it. If the program needs to be adjusted, we will. If it's okay to work with others, then we'll start working together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u77	But the problem analysis is, of course, weird. Those people come here, among other things, because there's a war there, it's said. There's a war and that's why they're coming here. Do jobs affect, for example, the struggle between Shiites and Sunnis? The point I want to make is this. Isn't it much wiser to use that money for those 15,000 jobs much more effectively, for example by ensuring that they don't come here and we stop them somewhere, at the border, for example? Those 15,000 jobs are not even a drop in the ocean, because there are 60 million people on the run.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u78	In the letter from, I believe, 8 September, the cabinet explained how we deal with this problem of migration. Investing in the regions where people come from is part of that. Sometimes migrants are driven by conflict, sometimes due to lack of economic prospects. We have talked about this in the Chamber a few times. If you want to do that, you need to invest in that place. That can also be done very well and the Netherlands is committed to doing so. I think if you're one of those 15,000, you'll see that as a nice bet that helps you stand on your own two feet, because that's what everyone wants most.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u79	You included your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u80	I'm getting to the global goals. The agenda for the world. I will deal specifically with a few points. Mr Voordewind referred to the Voice programme and asked whether the cabinet could increase its contribution to it. With this Voice programme, we want to give literally a voice, a position, to discriminated against and marginalised groups in society. I know that Mr Voordewind very much supports that. In the way we have set it up now, the programme will start in 2016. I propose to Mr Voordewind that the programme be launched first and that it be evaluated after not too long, because I am testing his impatience and, on that basis, looking at whether we want and can invest more specifically in that Voice fund. It is, of course, also important that it is effective. I would like to say to Mr Voordewind that I am fully prepared, on the basis of an evaluation, to consider whether more resources should be allocated. I have some hesitation in saying this before the start. I sincerely hope that Mr Voordewind understands that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u81	I thank the Minister for the fund. It's 10 million a year. It was our commitment, again a year ago, to focus this particularly on people with disabilities in developing countries. It has become a lot wider with the letter. I would nevertheless like to give the Minister the opportunity to spend this money on the disabled, because that was the idea at first. I have also tabled an amendment on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u82	Yes, I would like to say that to Mr Voordewind. It is clear that this group is extremely marginalised in many societies. I come to the issue of women's rights and gender equality. Mrs Van Veldhoven, Mrs Mulder, Mr Van Laar and Mr Taverne spoke about the importance of strengthening the position of women and girls. That's what I'm getting from the heart. Thank you for all your support and encouragement. I want to say a few things about this. I would like to inform Mr Taverne that, in the context of food security policy, we are committed to achieving women. It is our goal to be able to help 140,000 female farmers increase their income in 2016. We expect to give them better access to financial services. Through the Dutch contribution to the International Land Coalition, land rights are expected to be available to our target of 42,000 women in 2016. It is extremely important for women not only to work the land, but also to own it. However, this is far from a race in many countries. We continue to work not only for these projects but also for diplomatic work in the area of women's rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u83	I am going to raise the same question a few times, so perhaps the Minister can take the question with him when he announces other initiatives and programmes. How is it going to define this in advance by means of indicators so that it can be measured ex post as to whether it has been successful? In this case, too, I would like to see this on paper coming to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u84	This is just the way we've been working, not since today, but for a very long time. We look closely at the question: what is the problem, can the Netherlands contribute to it, what can it be and what is a realistic or ambitious goal? We then monitor this and report on it in the results report. If we fail to achieve this, we can see that in the report of results, including this year's report, we also indicate why, perhaps not at the level of each individual programme, but at the level of the larger programmes. After all, we have all this information. These numbers have simply been taken out of project proposals, I say to indicate how we can deal with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u85	No more ambitious numbers. It is very good that the Minister is doing this. I do not dispute that there is already a lot of information, but it is precisely about measuring. So it's not just finding out that it went to all those projects. If it is the ambition to increase income for 160,000 women, I would like to know in advance. If it's part of the project, that's fine. That means sending a copy to the Chamber. So we are going to do this and I am going to be able to pay for it." If I understand the Minister correctly, it's a small effort, so I'd like to look forward to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u86	Part of that information is already accessible via reichsoverheid.nl. That's what all our projects are on. To offer Mr. Taverne comfort I note the following. Not only do we write down these figures, but all projects and programmes are also evaluated. Of course, we also look at questions such as: have we achieved the goal, why or why not, what can we learn from it? I have heard Mr Taverne, and I will explain all this in a letter of inquiry. This also helps in the discussion of how we can better link existing data to the budget. We share this ambition, as we said on Monday. There is no point in keeping that information in a box if Mr Taverne does not feel that he has eyes on it, as much as I would like to leave that box with him. We are going further on the right of women to self-determination, a point which Mr Taverne has made with great conviction. It is extremely important for women to have access to their own bodies, to make their own choices, to be able to make their own decisions. The Netherlands supports a number of organisations that are committed to this. For example, UNFPA aims to reach 14 million additional users of family planning methods in 46 countries in 2016. So the multilateral organisations also have that kind of objective. The International Planned Parenthood Federation aims to provide 2 billion integrated sexual and reproductive health services in the period 2016-2020. Then it is about resources, but it is also about information. This is done for four years. That's as much as a general framework. There is much more to be said about it, but I think it is clear that the Netherlands is also making the effort that Members of Parliament would like to see. I come to a question from Mrs Van Veldhoven concerning the motion by her colleague Sjoerdsma on safe abortion in war situations. Within my policy, I pay particular attention to this, because it is an issue which not many countries are concerned with. We'll do it. Especially in war situations, women are particularly vulnerable. We work with specialized organisations, such as Marie Stopes International and International Pregnancy Advisory Services. In 2014, through these organisations, we worked on less restrictive abortion legislation in Ethiopia, 690 clinics were equipped with equipment and trained staff to provide that safe abortion, and 92,000 women have been reached who have been able to benefit from safe abortion services. Mrs Van Veldhoven asked whether the cabinet would be committed to this during the presidency. I'm gonna hurt that. I feel like a backrest. It is not easy to reach consensus on this issue within the European Member States. A large part of it supports it and a small part doesn't. So it is maneuvering, but at every possible moment I speak to those colleagues who are not yet on our side. I hope this happens someday. In May 2015, the Council invited the Commission to work on and report on this support. The Netherlands will be happy to provide support and experts. I come to speak on the amendment to item No. 16 by Mr Smaling, to whom I am not going to make a good turn this evening. This amendment concerns the addition of a budget rule on health systems. I do not agree with Mr Smaling on the content, but not on the administrative impact. I agree with him that strengthening health systems is very important. This should also be an integral part of SRGR policy including the prevention and treatment of HIV/AIDS. In this area, we are also looking for innovative forms of healthcare, organising home and neighbourhood care from local communities and using mobile telephony. We are also doing so through the Global Fund against AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria, which also urges us in its new strategy of 2017-2022 to pay more attention than before, I say to Mr Smaling for the construction of sustainable health systems. I would like to refer to the reported results in this area in Mozambique, Mali and Ethiopia. We are working on improving local health systems. I would advise against the amendment for a separate budget rule. What we are doing now goes well beyond Mr Smaling's proposed 1 million. I agree with the importance, but we are already doing more than Mr Smaling asked and perhaps a little wider than he had in mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u87	This amendment concerns an amount of 1 million. There's a divinity going to the Global Fund, approximately 55 million. I've got the Ebola lands on the retina, where there's just no health system at all. That was wiped out with the crisis we experienced there. The Minister himself has been there. This amendment is value for money.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u88	I see this a little differently, not because I do not think it would be important to invest in integrated health systems as part of the policy, but because we already do. This is done with a scale, on a scale and perhaps in a way that Mr Smaling has not yet seen. That 1 million is actually only administrative burden and does not provide the encouragement I taste in Mr Smaling's speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u89	Isn't it also just the convenience of giving a large amount of money to an international fund? Then it's gone and it's spent on good things; that's not the point. But with this you respond to something that has occurred in recent years and where there is a bitter need to do something. And then you can go with a trade mission to those three countries, as the Minister has done, but this does not provide for care as a basic provision for everyone who has to move on in Liberia, Guinea and Sierra Leone. That's a shame, isn't it? You have to be able to handle that with a relatively small amount of money.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u90	I insist that it is precisely our contribution to the Global Fund that can make the difference. They have invested much more, and are going to do so, in health systems. I know where Mr Smaling comes from, if I may put it that way. There has been a time when there was a lot of money for a specific disease, not for basic health care. Luckily, that's different now. That is partly at the insistence of the Netherlands. I find that much more effective than a separate budget rule. I would like to say to Mr Smaling that I will work wherever possible, including within these larger funds, if that has not yet been done, for those health systems. That trade mission included entrepreneurs and NGOs who focus on strengthening those health systems. I maintain that this seems to me to be a better approach when it comes to the end result, so effectiveness. Once again, I have heard Mr Smaling. Wherever possible, I will inform him separately about progress or specific initiatives in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u91	May I ask you to try to respond a little shorter? I give the floor to Mrs Mulder for her interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u92	This block is about women's rights, which are also part of the Sustainable Development Goals. That's what my question is about. In the clear answer given by the Minister, for which she thanked, she indicated that she raised a number of issues in Europe. Unfortunately, women's rights are not going to do that, but she has explained why. It indicates that it wants to do so in a coherent way in Europe. How will she do that in the Netherlands with her fellow ministers?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u93	Very briefly. We have identified a number of areas where we want to strengthen policy coherence. I refer to taxes and also very specific access to cheap medicines. In this area, I will work together with Mr Schippers, within the framework of the EU Presidency, but also to achieve global goals. We are now interdepartmentally working on an analysis of where the Netherlands is, when it comes to those global goals. My department has a slightly coordinating role here, as it is called. I come with a letter to the Chamber about where we stand and about what we want to do together in the Netherlands, where necessary, and in and with other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u94	When can we expect that letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u95	I don't think that's gonna take too long. I think it's early February.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u96	I hear the Minister say that a law has also been changed in Ethiopia. Has the Netherlands been committed to this? How's that going? How do you change laws in other countries?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u97	It is true that there has been an effort to change a law. The Netherlands finances Dutch, but also international and especially local civil society organisations that define their own commitment. I mention an organisation that works in Uganda to safeguard the rights of homosexuals or to prevent homosexuals from being prosecuted. The Netherlands provides financial support, but not everything. In this example, we do so through a Dutch organisation. In Uganda, local mobilisation by organisations on the ground has resulted in a terrible law being removed. I can say a lot of words about this, but this is through local civil society organisations that define their commitment and ask for the support of international partners.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u98	The Minister is talking about Uganda now, but I thought it was about Ethiopia and that it was an abortion law. I understand from her words that an abortion law has been changed in Ethiopia, so that abortion is easier. How does that work? How does this ministry manage to change laws in other countries? In the alternative: what would the Minister say if Ethiopia tried to change laws in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u99	I wanted to use the example from Uganda to show how it works. That's how it works in Ethiopia. Moreover, it is not a question of allowing access to more abortion, or of facilitating access to abortion. The point is that women who have become pregnant against their wishes have access to safe abortion, preferably legally. That's just a human right. There was a long way to go, and it's been hard work. Women's organisations in Ethiopia have raised this issue. They see the suffering caused to women by lack of provision for safe abortion. These organisations ask for international support to make better provision possible. That's how it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u100	In the written reply I read that the Minister will raise my point on counter-terrorism measures in different fora. I'm gonna ask the Minister to step up after all. It is only the raising of the problem that means that many NGOs, who do difficult work under difficult conditions, are still suffering. Can't we go a little further? Can the Minister not speak to Dutch banks that have branches in those countries? In this way, if an application is made, they can check through the Dutch embassy whether this is such a vulnerable NGO and whether they should help them to gain better access to financial services. Now they're doing it out of uncertainty, but I'd rather not. Can we actively provide assistance through the banks that the minister knows well?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u101	Officers are very important, because the problem affects not only these organisations. It's a broader problem. Wherever possible, I'd like to use our embassies to facilitate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u102	I am very pleased with this part of the commitment. Will the Minister also give an explicit undertaking that she will enter into the discussion with Dutch banks that are very active abroad? Does it want to bring the problem to their attention and make them, together with the embassies, ensure that these organisations have access to the financial services they so badly need?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u103	I'd be happy to say so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u104	For the reporting of the debate, I would like to briefly mention the example given by the Minister on the legislation in Uganda and how Dutch-funded civil society has put a stop to this. I'm gonna sum it up undiplomatically. It is unfortunate, because the BHOS committee visited Uganda last August and then spoke very extensively with the Prime Minister of Uganda. He told us that the law was long off the table for domestic political reasons, before any civil society came into play. How does the Minister explain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u105	I immediately believe the presentation of Mr Taverne's speech. There are several lectures on the lifespan and the course of life of the law. It is clear that it is important that the gay organisations in Uganda have been able to work on the resistance to the law. The term 'domestic political reasons' is, of course, very broad. I can't describe it. Domestic policy can also mean that there was no support for it. It may well be that this is motivated by the views of social movements.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u106	It is precisely this type of activity that will be financed over the next four years from the small billion for Consensus and Consensus. To influence things, to finance some clubs: they are par excellence things that are not or hardly measurable. Everyone has a different view of it. The Minister is also giving an honest answer. You might wonder if it's not a lot of money, 200 million a year. What would the Minister think of it the other way around? Suppose Uganda finds the euthanasia law in the Netherlands very strange and gives Dutch clubs money to buy, for example, a very large page in the Telegraaf. How would the Minister feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u107	Civil society is very active in the Netherlands. It does some things that I, as a member of the cabinet, am not happy with. It's supposed to be in an open society. I know that Mr Taverne agrees. Gay rights are human rights. If there is a need to safeguard these human rights locally in countries and the aid of partners is called for, I think that is legitimate. I say to Mr Taverne that, of course, it will come to an end. And of course I do have conversations with my counterparts about that, but in an open and free society, as a citizen, you should have the opportunity to organise yourself. Sometimes it rubs, sometimes it's downright annoying, but it always offers the opportunity to have a conversation. One or two comments have been made on the climate, which I would like to address briefly. Mrs Van Veldhoven asked whether climate finance is additional. She referred to the World Bank report. On 20 November I responded to this in my letter to the Chamber. Climate finance is part of the OS budget. That is what we agreed in the coalition agreement. In that letter is the more specific commitment to climate, including funding: partly private and partly public. Mr Klaver asked me to look ahead and plan how we can cope with the consequences of climate change in the future. The main thrust of my substantive and financial commitment is what the world deserves. It is good to say that my policy is mainly focused on the poorest. My policy is focused on the people who are not very easy to deal with anyway; they are often the ones most affected by climate change. These are small farmers, for example, who are accompanied by the conversion of their production methods or the supply of seeds that can withstand a salty surface. That's how we do it. We work together with business and there is specific attention to women and girls. So the route is set and we have started a few specific activities. Mr Vos and Mrs Mulder asked. In the written reply I dealt with the two investment funds. It is perhaps good to say to Mr Vos that the British and Germans have already promised to contribute to FMO's climate fund. We hope, of course, that more countries will do so. Mr Vos also asked if I agree with Prince Charles' analysis of climate change. I would like to say that the only thing I have in common with Prince Charles is that analysis. I think he feels the same way. Anyway, we already paid attention to that before Prince Charles gave that interview. A few weeks ago, we organised the Planetary Security Conference, which focused on how climate change has an impact on today's crises, and vice versa. This is, of course, about access to water, to food, to safety. In Syria, but also in Mali, the structurally increasing drought has led to much loss of livestock and therefore to the loss of the livelihood of many inhabitants in the north, which has certainly played a role in the origin and continuation of the conflicts. This was the end of this block.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u108	You told me about the Danish model. I asked you to do that. That fund is very successful, because there is a very large leverage between the euros that the government invests against those of the business community: I think one in five. I am not entirely aware of the Dutch fund. The Minister says that other countries have promised. What's this leverage with us now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u109	Sorry for the confusion. There are two funds. One is the Climate Investor One fund of FMO. I was just talking about that. Among other things, the British and the Germans are involved. The other is the fund that we want to set up together with the Dutch institutional investors in accordance with the Danish model. The plan is here. We're talking to institutional investors. It is clear that the investment of both public and private funds must lead to leverage. What the affair will be is the subject of conversation. This is also due to the type of programme or project that can be financed, but obviously the intention is that one euro should not remain a single euro.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u110	That Dutch fund now has 50 million from the State. 200 million is the target. How much has been made up by these other countries? I'd like to know so I can calculate the leverage. Is there also guarantees and subordinated loans? To what extent does the Minister intend to make guarantees and subordinated loans available to that other fund with institutional investors? Those were the more specific questions I asked yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u111	British Prime Minister Cameron has promised a contribution of £50 million. Germany contributes 10 million. With the Dutch contribution of 50 million we are thus a long way towards the 200 million. The target is a CO reduction of 1.7 gigaton. This is the same as the emissions of half a million cars less on the road. I will return to the leverage in the second term; I have not given it now. I'll get back to you on that. I believe it should be 1 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u112	About one-on-one is the current...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u113	Interrupts go in two. This is your third interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u114	It will have to be more than one-on-one, because it's about FMO's commitment to bankable projects. Again, there should be a firmer multiplier.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u115	I had another question about climate finance. I had asked for a plan until 2020. The Minister has said what her vision and ambition is. She has indicated what we should think about in what areas. I am actually asking for a more concrete approach. Where does the Netherlands want to spend its money? How much money is it gonna put away in what year? We can set that out in a multiannual plan up to 2020 at least, so that we can give real certainty.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u116	We have chosen to record it in the note What the world deserves until 2017. The horizon goes up to this reign. I would like to respond to Mr Klaver, but I cannot commit for the period after that. Let me put it this way: I hope to mobilise both public and private resources with such success in the period up to 2017, that it will become almost inevitable for the next cabinet to continue this course.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u117	I am fully aware that a choice has been made for this cabinet period, but that is precisely what I am criticising, if I may put it that way. Climate change is a longer-term problem. For investment in infrastructure, the cabinet also rules over its term of office, as commitments are set until 2028. What I am asking is actually very modest, because I am asking for a plan until 2020. Anyway, I understand the position of the minister. I'll file a motion in the second term. If a majority of the Chamber considers that it can be adopted until after 2017, the Minister is called upon by the Chamber to do so. I really think it would be helpful to give certainty about what the Netherlands wants in terms of climate finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u118	I'll await the motion. I also have to respond to Mr Bosma's comment on the situation in Africa. He gave a certain interpretation of history. Perhaps it is good to quote the father of Africa in response to these comments. Nelson Mandela said that Africa long cherished the compulsion that it could blame everything that has happened in the past on others. I am sticking to the reading of the history of Africa as Mandela had it. I would like to work in partnership with countries on freedom and economic prosperity for everyone there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u119	Did the minister say she wants to work with everyone who's in favour of freedom? That is precisely the point I made yesterday, namely that the Department of Development Cooperation of this Ministry has in the past financed all kinds of clubs that have committed genocide. I spoke about the Frelimo with 80,000 to 250,000 dead, the NPLA in Angola in 1977 with 25,000 dead, the ANC killed 20,000 people in the People's War. The country's largest anti-apartheid movement has been virtually eradicated............................................................................................................................................... ZANU-PF of Mugabe has caused 80,000 deaths and the only reason they were killed was because they belonged to the wrong people, the Matabeles. All four organizations were financed by Minister Pronk and this Ministry. I said quite a few things yesterday in my first contribution, namely that this ministry financed genocides. That's not just a cry; I figured that out well. Four genocides have been funded by this Ministry. How does the Minister feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u120	I do not share the analysis of history, as Mr Bosma gives it. Nor can I see that we will get closer to each other on this issue. Mr Pronk and I are on Venus together and Mr Bosma is at Mars and never the twain shall meet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u121	I already knew that the minister was on a different planet than the rest of the Netherlands, but I still want to ask what is wrong with my reading of history. Then we'll just have to peel it off. Does the Minister deny those four genocides I mentioned? Is that it? Does she deny these four genocides?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u122	I have no need to discuss the reading of history with Mr Bosma as he sees it. It is well known what has been the battle that has been waged in Africa. It is also sufficiently well known who has played what role. I do not share Mr Bosma's view of history, nor do I believe that we are coming closer together. Because I don't see him moving my way either. A completely different subject is international corporate social responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u123	I see that Mr Smaling has another question. It is a budget procedure and so I am not going to pinch the interruptions, but it is already 9:30. Time flies and I would ask Members to restrict themselves a little.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u124	I'd like to continue with this. Mr Bosma used very big words. He's a historian, too. I read a book of his, in which he does document himself well. I do not share his conclusions, but I would like the Minister to take the time to respond in full in writing to the analysis that Mr Bosma has shared with us. We don't have to do that tonight, but we can do that in the next few weeks. It is also important for her to give a reply that Mr Bosma may be able to change her mind. If we just say here that one of Venus is coming and the other of Mars, it'll stick.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u125	I do not think there is anything to be said about this. That makes it clear what the positions are. I say to Mr Smaling that much research has been done into the history of liberation movements and the struggle for independence. That research is available to everyone. We live in a free country, so we can all draw our own conclusions. I do not share Mr Bosma's conclusions. I'd like to leave that at that. There is plenty of material available. Evaluation studies have also been carried out, even in previous years, into the support of the Netherlands in the context of Development Cooperation. There has been an evaluation in the past, and that seems to me to be a good source to draw on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u126	I do not share Mr Bosma's conclusions at all, but I do believe that every Member of Parliament should be justiced here. I believe that such an analysis, however different you might disagree with it, should be provided with a rebuttal of the same substance. I would ask the Minister to think about it in order to pay attention to that. Old reports and such do not contradict what Mr Bosma surprised us with yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u127	There is an extensive history of the period that has been discussed. There are also different angles. They're available to everyone. I also believe that there has been ample reflection on 50 years of practice in development cooperation in which critical and less critical notes are cracked. I don't think I should do that again in a letter. I come to talk about corporate social responsibility. I should first like to comment on a point made by Mr Voordewind. He asked whether the VAT rate for sustainable products could be considered, with the aim of encouraging the purchase of these products. I am in favour of this. VAT legislation is highly harmonised in the EU. That legislation does not allow Member States to apply a reduced VAT rate only to the sustainable variants of a product. The committee is currently considering the possibilities of modernising these tariff provisions. So far, Member States have had little interest in changing the tariffing of the directive on sustainable products, but I feel very encouraged by Mr Voordewind and would like to say that I will go in consultation with the Secretary of State for Finance to see what our space is here. I hope, therefore, that I will be able to welcome him with a positive message in not too long. I'm gonna make a commitment to that. Mr Vos felt that the missions were too many trade missions. I'm paraphrasing now. I would like to contradict that. I can do that very easily, even because we have made a good habit of reporting on the content and scope of the missions in the past period. This is done at the request of the Chamber. Thank you for that! These reports make it clear that the missions cover a very wide range of topics. It is certainly about promoting trade, it is certainly about promoting investment, but in all cases it is about encouraging companies to do so sustainably and ensuring that these investments are also included. And it's also about human rights in a whole series of missions. I refer to the mission to Colombia, in which Mr Vos himself took part. We have talked to a number of companies there about the problem of coal. Furthermore, another part of the delegation, with some of the same people, looked at trade and investment opportunities. In this sense, I am encouraged by Mr Vos to continue on the path that has been taken. That doesn't just apply to me. My College of Schippers, for example, raised the issue of homosexual rights in Russia. So we all make a good habit of using these missions to raise human rights issues, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u128	The Minister mentions Colombia's example. Of course, we went to visit coal companies. These coals were imported by Dutch companies. That was, of course, another trade element. We did a good job there. I am certainly not saying that the Minister is not doing a good job in the field of trade promotion and that issues such as corporate social responsibility and sustainability are not included. I also think it is very good that the cabinet is so internationally oriented. I am also very pleased that this Minister is the Minister for Aid and Trade. But I do see and read a lot about all the ministers of this cabinet. I am not just talking about this minister, but she is the Minister of Foreign Trade...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u129	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u130	This is the only other interruption I'm making tonight, but it's asking for an introduction, because I want to make it specific.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u131	I'm sure that can be short and powerful.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u132	Now I'm all over the place and it's taking even longer, Mr. Chairman. I welcome the fact that there are many trade missions, but I only read about trade. If I google on "Minister Ploumen" and "trade," I get twice as many hits as when I google on "Minister Ploumen" and "help." I would very much like to see it reversed, not only on Google, but also in the experience of this Chamber. I'd like to give that to you. I was convinced of this by the fact that the Mayor of Rotterdam, also a member of the Labour Party, has returned to Saudi Arabia, while Minister Kamp was there less than four days ago. What are we to do in that oil-producing country with precisely those suggestions that I say are plutocrates? They combine their political power with economic power, and the Labour Party has little to do with that, apart from all the other matters where that oil money goes. I shall not dwell on that, because then I shall be reprimanded by the President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u133	Let me start by saying that I really like that Mr Jan Vos sometimes Googles me. It is very good that a large number of missions appear. I would, however, like to nuance the picture he sketches a little bit. Quite a lot of my missions may indeed be marked 'trade mission', but they always deal with the wider problem. The same goes for my colleagues. I hear Mr Vos' critical remarks about visits to a number of Gulf States. The cabinet sometimes sees this as a dilemma. Mr Vos, of course, raises an extremely relevant point. That is precisely why I think it is so important that, for example, Mr Kamp, when he was in Iran, specifically raised broader issues such as human rights. That is precisely why it is good that Mr Schippers did so when she was in Russia and it was about gay rights. Sometimes that may be a little less prominent in the news, but I would like to say to Mr Vos that in the reports of the missions I may report a little more clearly and a little more precisely on that. But again, it is a characteristic of this cabinet's missions that they are wider than just one or just the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u134	I have another fine example: Bangladesh. You've been there with CEOs and NGOs. In future, just call it a "aid and trade mission" if it really is, rather than a "trade mission." That helps if I google again next year, because I'm definitely going to do a comparative research. You can count on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u135	I will try to do so, not for comparative research, but to call it 'aid and trade missions'.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u136	The Minister mentioned a dilemma, namely whether or not you are going on such a mission, because they are not countries that are close to us. Can the Minister give an example of a country where the cabinet has not gone over the past period because the dilemma that existed has gone to the other side?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u137	The way we deal with these dilemmas in the Netherlands is a little broader than this cabinet, but let me speak for the cabinet, with these dilemmas, is to choose the commitment. This means that you go, but then explicitly engages in the discussion on issues that are not always easy to discuss. Let us not run away from that. The trade-off is often the following. If you don't go, you're gonna lose all the opportunities for dialogue. It doesn't say that you can solve the problems with one conversation. That is why it is usually chosen to have that commitment and to follow up those conversations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u138	It is not my custom to put words in the Minister's mouth, but I am going to do so now. I only have two chances. When I hear the Minister speaking in this way, I understand that in the last period there has not been a single trade-off to avoid going to a country because of the human rights situation, for example. In my view, this shows that the cabinet always chooses trade interests. It chooses to go to Saudi Arabia and take a whole follow-up to companies that are mainly in the fossil business, to see what the investment opportunities are there. This does not really show that we are looking for a human rights dialogue or an improvement in the situation. What solved the conversation with Saudi Arabia during that trade mission? What new channels have been used to improve access to the regime there, in order to bring about some change in the field of human rights? Can we have a little bit of hope?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u139	There is much more hope than Mr Klaver is suggesting, because I really do not agree with his analysis. We have visited a country like China many times in recent years, including many trade missions. The talks there have led to a human rights dialogue between these two countries. This is the case in many more countries. It is not at all the case that we are not raising this issue. Sometimes a mission like that is just a way to discuss it. It is perhaps important for Mr Klaver that I add that we are not just speaking with fellow ministers or with officials employed by the government. We also speak with NGOs, with activists. When Mr Kamp was in Qatar with a trade mission, he talked extensively with NGOs, but also with Dutch companies about the problems surrounding the construction of stadiums for the football World Cup and the violation of the labour rights involved. A result of this is that the Dutch companies that are very committed to doing the right thing have been set as an example to other companies that invest there. In the reports we give those examples. My experience is that in recent years, by combining the different perspectives in one mission, there has been much more room for discussion and that sometimes we have achieved faster and better results through unexpected channels. I really do not agree with Mr Klaver's analysis.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u140	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u141	We're interrupting in two, so I suggest the Minister continue her argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u142	Interrupts are definitely in two. I am not addressing the Minister either. I am addressing you, Mr President. Not to be silly, but the example I mentioned was Saudi Arabia, and then I get a very comprehensive answer from the Minister for Foreign Affairs for which I thank you about China!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u143	The Minister continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u144	Yes, Mr. Chairman. In the report on the mission to Saudi Arabia, I would like to address the issue of human rights and the question of what has been discussed in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u145	Before you proceed, Mr Taverne has another interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u146	Thank you for allowing me to give a little help to the Minister, who is now under attack from two left-wing parties, from the right-hand side. Nothing as handy as Google. When you enter "Minister Ploumen" and "help," you get 163.000 hits, and on "Minister Ploumen" and "trade" 61.000. As far as we are concerned, it must be the other way round and we must focus much more on trade. Does the Minister agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u147	Before I give a specific answer to that question, I would like to ask Mr Taverne if he will give me the opportunity to google myself later in the suspension to see if I get the same results and whether they are a little reliable. Googlenomics does not seem to me to be the way we should go, but I do hear Mr Taverne's encouragement. We were at international trade. Mr Taverne is served at his beck and call. Mr Taverne asked about TTIP. Do the Americans still want to do this? Mr Smaling asked whether we should want to, TTIP and more products. Don't we have enough products? TTIP is a very important agreement. I am not going to put too many words into that, because I can see your impatient look. We have also had 20 debates on it, and rightly so, and we will have more debates on it. With regard to the assessment of whether or not there are sufficient products, the market itself is its best master. The government makes terms. It shall ensure that food safety and animal welfare criteria are not affected. It is up to the consumer to make a choice in the supermarket for one product or another. Our responsibility is to ensure that all products in the supermarket are safe. Furthermore, I think everyone should eat as healthy as possible. I come to Mr Taverne's concerns. I have already indicated that the 11th round of negotiations took place at the end of October. I believe this is in the letter. The public report can be found on DG Trade's website. This transparency is important. An important and encouraging result is that the EU and the US have made an ambitious proposal to liberalise 97% of tariff lines. The EU has put forward a comprehensive text for the chapter on trade and sustainable development. This includes proposals on the environment, labour, CSR and the impact of TTIP on the least developed countries. The next round is in February. Prior to this, a number of expert meetings are held to pave the way. I say to Mr Taverne that we have no hesitation in the Americans in continuing the negotiations. That is a good thing. Mr Klaver asked if the Netherlands could be sued under TTIP. There is no TTIP yet, but I would like to take part in the debate if environmental legislation is changed or if the gas tap is turned off. TTIP or no TTIP, it is quite clear that governments must protect the public interest. Just to be sure, we'll secure this in TTIP. It is clear that in any rule of law there must be opportunities for everyone to defend themselves if they think that their interests are being violated. Those are the two principles. Anyone can defend themselves against any decision. The same applies to foreign investors. Whether that defence is successful depends very much on the way in which the decision is taken. Let me give you an example. The shutting down of the gas crane can be seen as expropriation. Expropriation is permitted under Dutch law. I will not go into that now, but expropriation has a long legal history. It is permitted provided that it is carried out in the public interest, with legal guarantees, without discrimination against anyone and against reasonable remuneration. On the one hand, we have every guarantee to ensure that the public interest is safeguarded and, on the other hand, people who feel that they are harmed in law can use the normal course of justice. New proposals have been made by the Netherlands, among others, and have been adopted by the Commission. They have to form the new gold standard. We will discuss this later. The public interest remains guaranteed. Mr Klaver and I share that commitment very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u148	The definition and legal functioning of the right of ownership referred to by the Minister are laid down in the European Convention on Human Rights. Anyone who also does something about pensions knows that this is difficult to overcome, but that is a completely different debate. The minister said it's not possible for charges to be brought. I find that striking. On the basis of the Energy Charter Treaty, Vattenfall filed a claim. I talked about that yesterday. For a moment there was discussion about the claim that the company as a foreign party would be disadvantaged. The fact is that Vattenfall owns Germany's two oldest nuclear power plants. According to that reasoning, they had to close first. That is exactly what we are doing with coal-fired power stations: the most polluting ones first. Those are also foreign parties who control those power plants. Why, then, should they not be able to make use of this treaty?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u149	Sorry. Apparently, I haven't expressed myself carefully enough. One can use it. Nothing gets in the way of that. However, access to that legal system does not automatically mean that one is equal or equal. Especially under the new proposals, there are very strict rules on how this legal process should look and who speaks that right. Everyone is free to do so, but that does not mean that such a claim is granted. I went into this in more detail in the written reply. We will undoubtedly discuss TTIP and investment protection in the dispute mechanism, including in the framework of CETA. Perhaps, if I do report to the Chamber, in that letter a number of cases, as far as we have information on them, would be a good idea to give Mr Klaver a little more comfort and at least to provide more information.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u150	That would be very nice. That would be cases that were filed under the Energy Charter Treaty. The Minister then elaborates cases, in which she explains why the claim was filed and how it was concluded: has there been a ruling, was there a settlement and, if so, what were the amounts and what were the grounds? Did I understand the Minister that well? I would be satisfied with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u151	That's definitely my intention. The only thing I don't know right now is whether all that data is accessible. However, it is certainly my intention to do so. If that does not work, it is for that reason and I will inform Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u152	Thank you. Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u153	This brings me to the last issue, and that is the conclusion, which is very short.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u154	Mr Vos has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u155	The Minister also addressed the climate carve-out in the written reply. She has just referred to that. This means that you're actually making an exception in the investment treaties. That's what it was all about for climate issues. The written answer says that everything is about climate: coal power stations, bicycles, solar panels and many different forms of transport. That's why it would be hard to determine. Another argument that is cited is that Secretary of State Dijksma said the day before yesterday that it is difficult to bring that into Paris. I do not find both arguments convincing. In the first case you can of course further define yourself. That is exactly what we do in legislation. That is why it always goes past the Council of State, which is very good at defining it precisely.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u156	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u157	In the second case, it is about the Treaty of Paris. However, what I asked questions about yesterday was TTIP. I don't think it's such a crazy idea to rule out climate issues in TTIP. I would like to hear a response from the Minister on the points I have just raised.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u158	I think Secretary of State Dijksma has made the same kind of consideration as I did in the written response. In that sense, they will fit in. However, I am sympathetic to Mr Vos' request. I understand the background to that. However, it appears to be extremely difficult to define this in more detail. I would like to say to Mr Vos that I will look into it and discuss it with colleagues. I understand he finds this unsatisfactory. However, this is the real situation. So I don't want to make a very easy commitment that I can't live up to. However, I would like to say to him that, apart from the contribution to Paris, I will do a little more research on this in the context of trade agreements in general, because it is sympathetic to me. However, I am not convinced in advance that I can meet his wishes. But I say again, I'll do more research.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u159	This commitment by the Minister is very much appreciated. I assume the Chamber will then receive a letter in due course.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u160	Definitely. I'll take it too not to take too long.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u161	In replying to the written questions, the Minister writes about help to Ghana that the ACVZ finds that negative incentives can affect the relationship with countries of origin. This concerns the withdrawal of asylum seekers. The Minister said to the Government of Ghana: we think you should take people back. Since the country did not cooperate, it has also punished it, let me put it this way, by giving less help. Well, Ghana didn't like that. It was said there: we simply do not do that. The result is that the Minister is still giving help. In fact, she's putting a shovel on top of it. What does the Minister actually say to the Dutch people and to the taxpayers? You don't do what we ask of you, and you still get extra help. How am I supposed to interpret that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u162	I have every respect for Mrs. Mulder, but now she's running a little short. So I like that she gives me the opportunity to reflect further on that. The ACVZ is the Advisory Committee on Foreign Affairs. That is an independent committee, which we have asked to investigate the effectiveness of conditionality. A number of practical cases have been investigated there. I sent a letter to the Chamber about that. In short, the conclusion of that research is that in many cases conditionality does not work to punish, to put it bluntly, and that it often works better when it is considered in consultation with those countries, for example, what is needed to strengthen migration management. Why didn't it work at Ghana? The answer to that question is too cynical; I am happy to give it to Mrs Mulder. The reduction in development cooperation concerned health care. A number of hospitals received less money because of this. The ACVZ actually writes: if you want conditionality to be effective, you should actually address those who are important in implementing what you want. However, we do not give sectoral support or general budget support to Ghana. So the advisory committee actually writes: conditionality can work especially if you apply it very precisely. Just cutting in help doesn't have an impact, because that's not what people feel there. So we are with countries looking for an answer to the question of how we shape that conditionality in a way that is effective. 'Cause if you don't, there's no point. We are working on the results of that research by the ACVZ.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u163	The CDA thinks this is a very strange course of action. A country with which we have a good trade relationship and with which you want to work carefully, including in the field of development cooperation, is still in a position to do so. In fact, I do not think that is anything like it at all, certainly not in relation to the Dutch taxpayer. I do not really understand why the cabinet then responds to this by giving additional support to that country. EUR 50 million goes extra to three countries, including Ghana, to promote employment and combat migration. That's just what the CDA's having a hard time with. I am therefore not satisfied with the Minister's explanation on this point at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u164	The 50 million will not be invested in Ghana's government or government, but in jobs for young people in companies there. We do this because Ghana is a country from which much is migrated. The ACVZ writes: if you want that conditionality to work, you have to determine exactly where that effect can be. Let us establish together that we all want that conditionality to work. Mrs Mulder and I do, at least. That EUR 50 million goes to a number of countries. Ghana is, for the reason I mentioned, one of those countries. I think it is right to limit migration from Ghana.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u165	In the written answer, the Minister writes about the Sustainable Development Goals: I come with an integral letter stating everything about it. Does that include the amounts that will be used in the various budgets for this purpose? Those are the amounts that are allocated to them, I understand, but it would be nice if we could get an overview. I also asked if the Minister could respond in a letter to the motions that have been pending since the previous budget. I'd like to know how they'll be implemented. I'll give the Minister a note with the numbers afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u166	I'd be happy to make that commitment. I can then immediately let you know what is going on with the route of criminalising the restriction of humanitarian access. So I'm happy to do that. On Mrs van Veldhoven's first request, I can say that most ODA spending is on the budget of BuHa-OS. If there are still expenditures on other budgets, I assume that my colleagues will cooperate in her request and that I can accept that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u167	I would like to return to the previous subject: conditionality and Ghana's example. We have discussed this with the Minister before. I read the answer in the written answer to the question I asked in the first period. I didn't think that was overly clear, but the explanation given to Mrs Mulder's questions didn't make it any clearer. The Minister says a few things. First of all, she says: "If your money is short in Ghana in this case, they won't notice any of it." That can only lead to one conclusion: apparently they don't need it. Secondly, she said, "if things don't go well, we're gonna give more." We tried to give less once, and that didn't help. Can the Minister explain why more is given if things are not going well? It seems to me to be a very ineffective way of getting right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u168	If that were the case, Mr Taverne would be absolutely right on his side. We have obtained advice from the ACVZ. They have not relied on one case. Mr Klaas Dijkhoff and I have written a letter on this subject and have explained it more precisely. I did not say "they do not notice" but I reiterated the conclusion of that ACVZ opinion. That conclusion is that if the rebate does not affect those who are instrumental in carrying out what we ask them to do about asylum or the withdrawal of fellow countrymen, then effectiveness is limited. That's what I'm saying from my point of view, the ACVZ. We cut 10 million in a number of hospitals in part of the country. This contribution did not go through the government, because they do not collect it through the government. When we did, we assumed that this would have a significant impact. The hospitals have suffered a lot underneath that; I am really sorry. This case and some others have apparently led the ACVZ to the conclusion that it is fine if you want to apply the conditionality, but that you have to be more precise about that. Mr Dijkhoff and I indicated in that letter how we intend to do this in future.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u169	Maybe I can make a suggestion to the Minister. I agree with Marx's theory of fusion, I believe, so that should appeal to the minister. The Minister notes that money has been cut short that the Ghanaian government is not entitled directly. It is right that we should not give it to them either. I understand that it hasn't helped and that it has led to very nasty situations. Isn't it an idea to cut down a lot more? In a way that's gonna hit a lot more people? Then we can use the 200 million, or part of it, which we distribute as a collusion and contradiction through civil society in Ghana, to let the people know what will happen if your government does not cooperate with a country that is pumping a lot of money into your economy. I see here: the ACVZ notes that negative incentives can affect relations with countries of origin. Yeah, thank you for the cuckoo, that's a good thing, 'cause they're not helping to take back subjects. What kind of policy is this for the Minister? That's going to go on with something that doesn't work, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u170	Mr Dijkhoff and I have been guided by this opinion in this matter. I think Mr Taverne will address this commitment. Of course it is to ensure that countries take back their nationals. That is where it begins and ends, on which we agree. There was then an opinion that outlined a number of paths towards this desired end result. Part of this is to ensure that the talks with that country on these issues are conducted more closely and effectively, so that nationals will be taken back. In the opinion of ACVZ I am speaking after this, but Mr Dijkhoff and I have taken this up. This means that we need to intervene more precisely in migration management and, in particular, in dialogue with the people who are instrumental, root and stick, so to speak. That's the policy in the letter. Let me repeat that it is mainly about the effectiveness of intervention.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u171	Thank you. Did you come to the end of your first-term response?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u172	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u173	Thank you. Then we shall continue with the second term on the side of the Chamber. I give the floor to the first speaker, Mr Smaling, with two minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u174	That's very kind of you, Mr. Chairman. Those two minutes are rounded up, I think, because yesterday I was talking a little too long. Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for replying. Some of it creates clarity, some of it doesn't. On Monday we had a good debate on how to use our position as a Chamber, our budget right. That has been a valuable debate. I have one motion. Here and there we have voted in favour of motions and amendments. That will be demonstrated by what my colleagues have come up with. My motion looks a little ahead. In fact, it is an appeal to the Minister to use the last year of this cabinet that is about to come for some kind of reflection that the next cabinet may be able to take advantage of. The motion reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the BuHa-OS policy area has been dealing with more or less the same issues for decades;]] [[noting that developing countries still have problems, but are mature and can therefore leave the country;]] [[calls on the Government to organise a self-reflection in 2016 based on the assumption that the BuHa-OS policy area does not exist and subsequently to identify the type of North-South cooperation needed at the present time,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Smaling. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XVII-28]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u175	Anything I'd say next would weaken the motion, so I certainly won't let you. I thank the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u176	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for her detailed reply, also for the written reply we received prior to the Minister's deadline. I've listened to it and read it. Last Monday we started a debate with the Minister on measuring the effects of her policies and those of her predecessors. Yesterday we also asked a number of questions about this. I think I see a pattern in the minister's office. Whether it concerns the effects of policies or other subjects, there is an enormous willingness to provide the Chamber with information................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That's not good. This undermines the support for policy. More importantly, sometimes it ignores very simple questions from the Chamber. Then I do not think it is always best to deny more or less that the problem is there, but to answer it. Apart from what I think of the content of Mr Bosma's contribution, I agree with Mr Smaling that the Minister simply has a good answer to that. That is not the case, because every Member of this Chamber has the right to do so. A number of issues have been addressed in writing, including the question I raised in the first term on the development and expectations of the revision of the ODA standards. On this point, too, I would like to thank the Minister for the comprehensive answer. But the most important element of the question, namely what to do with that 0.7%, is not addressed. I referred to the norm in the first term as "an obscure 0.7% standard we are being held hostage by." It is good to consider modernisation, but it does not address the question of why this standard should remain 0.7%. That was only a percentage at the time. I would like an answer from the Minister. The Minister said this about my comments on the supply-oriented and supply-driven approach to development cooperation policy. She gave as an example that there are countries that want to get rid of that development relationship, including Rwanda, I know. I think that's just proof of the fact that it's been controlled. If a country gets that help, it says it actually prefers to get rid of it, then it is more than thanks to the Netherlands that it stops. In this context, the Minister said a few words about the conditions under which an OS relationship with a country can be stopped. I would like to receive a written statement from the Minister setting out the precise framework within which to decide whether to proceed and when to stop aid. With regard to the commercial part of the budget, I shall table a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the percentage of GDP earned from exports in the Netherlands has remained stable for decades, while the value added from exports in neighbouring countries has increased substantially at the same time;]] [[Whereas recent research by ING "What the Netherlands can learn from neighbouring countries, towards a forward-looking export model" shows that this lack of added value growth can be related to the fact that Dutch exports are too one-sidedly directed towards exports to Western European countries;]] [[Whereas exports to growth markets/emerging markets are often accompanied by more complex financing issues, with support from the Dutch authorities crucial;]] [[Whereas responding to opportunities in the distant growth markets and development markets often requires early engagement and other financing structures, e.g. more focused on combinations of export and investment, early stage project development and the ability to arrange funding at high speed;]] [[Whereas the Dutch export financing model focuses heavily on guarantees and insurance and the ability of Atradius DSB to cover risks, while competing countries introduce new instruments enabling them to play a broader role in financing;]] [[Calls on the Government to implement the previously expressed ambition to improve the level playing field on export financing by presenting, before 1 March 2016, a vision on the desirability and financial feasibility of introducing instruments aimed at direct export financing, flexible forms of investment financing and interest subsidy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Taverne.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XVII-29]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u177	This motion wasn't really short and concise, but my last motion is a little shorter...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u178	...if you'll allow me to submit it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u179	No, I won't let you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u180	Well, I'm gonna have to, because I want to read you a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u181	I'm very sorry, but I have to ask you to...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u182	I don't think so. It's hard for me to make a motion...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u183	Why don't you shut up for a second?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u184	Well, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u185	You talk through it all the time, but I have to ask whether the submission of this motion is sufficiently supported.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u186	Oh, excuse me, Mr. Chairman! I was so pressed for time!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u187	I understand you've been reading your motion for so long.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u188	Yeah, I know!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u189	This motion was tabled by Mr Taverne. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. You may proceed with your second motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u190	Thank you for your kindness, Mr President. My next motion concerns something completely different, namely the right of women to self-determination, which I am deeply concerned about. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that, according to UNICEF's Generation 2030 Africa report, the expected increase in population is a major challenge for the African continent;]] [[noting that the causes of this increase include a lack of knowledge and resources for family planning, and that this reduces women's freedom of choice to determine how many children they want to have;]] [[noting that it restricts women's right to self-determination;]] [[noting that the Netherlands has internationally recognised added value and a specialised network in reaching out to marginalised people on sensitive issues in the field of sexual and reproductive health;]] [[calls on the government to provide funding for integrated SRGR and HIV/AIDS services and information for hard-to-reach people, including women's choice to decide whether and how many children they want to have, to increase structurally by EUR 3 million from 2017 onwards and to reduce their contribution to the GFATM by EUR 3 million structurally from 2017 onwards,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Taverne, Mr Van Laar, Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Van Veldhoven and Mr Smaling.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XVII-30]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u191	Following these basic motions, I have another question about an amendment tabled by the VVD. It is an amendment on Wings for Aid, which allows drones to reach places where you cannot bring medicines and blankets with regular means of transport. That's very nice. So sympathetic that D66 proposed this a year ago. The more parties we find out, the better, so I will certainly support the amendment. I am concerned that the cover proposed concerns emergency aid. A year ago, Mrs De Caluwe said: "We all have our hobbies. If we are going to practice them all, we will soon reach 20% that the Minister must reserve for all our hobbies." (...)"No support from the VVD, therefore, at least." My question to the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is: where did you fall off your faith?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u192	The VVD Group has found that there is not only another spokesperson for development cooperation at the VVD but also at D66. In view of this change, the new insights we have received from the VVD and the support we have received from this amendment, as just said by Mrs Van Veldhoven, we have decided after conclave, long-term consultation and deep reflection to do so, knowing that we are also of service to D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u193	I am delighted with these insights from the VVD Group. I will wholeheartedly support the amendment, as I have said.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u194	How does this amendment relate to what Mr Taverne said earlier about how we should spend the money for development cooperation? The Minister has said how this is normally done. We make calls for tenders and then we choose the best proposal. Criteria are laid down. That's how we know where our money's going. This is just a lobby that's been running for a while. So far we have said that we do not as a parliament decide who buys which device, with what money. This must come from the Innovation Fund within the framework of emergency aid. It's through calls for tenders. And now it's said that we're not going to do that, we're not going to set targets, but we're going to give one and a half million dollars to this particular device, because that's what it's going to do. Why?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u195	That is an excellent question from Mr Van Laar. That's how I know him, as the author of excellent questions. The reason we are here for this is that the coverage from emergency aid is such that you can be a little less specific when measuring. If there are opportunities for this, we are of course in favour of it. This knife cuts both ways. In view of that, we have decided to do it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u196	But what guarantees does Mr Taverne have that this will work? Does he know if that drone can actually fly yet? Is it that far, or does it still need to be developed? Is he perhaps seen as an unmanned weapon in conflict zones, causing him to escalate? To what extent has this been selected, tested and do we know what we are going to do if we take out this amount of no less than one and a half million dollars?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u197	That's a fair question. I say to Mr Van Laar that we will count in advance how many drones are being deployed. If a lot of people die because they get shot, I imagine you'll conclude that it's a means that doesn't work. In that case, it's a waste of money. The VVD will then be the first to say that she is not and may never again participate in such experiments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u198	I'll skip the VVD's drone policy, although I do see a whole new perspective to get to the 27th in this way. Mr Taverne referred to the fact that the VVD has quite a large range of spokesmen. A spokesperson for the VVD on development aid was once Mr Boekestijn. He even wrote a book about it following the location of the VVD in 2008. In fact, this opinion is the same as the VVD now has, namely that it is 0.7% bizarre and must go away, and that the effectiveness of development aid cannot be proved. Exactly the same said Mr Taverne yesterday and today. That is why the VVD voted against the development aid budget at the time. Since the arguments are the same, I assume the VVD will do the same this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u199	Mr Bosma's words show that the VVD has a consistent line for development aid. That's not weird, because the insights, as he rightly says, are not new. They're confirmed year by year. We will not vote against the budget because we have started this year to take an important step. Mr Bosma also took part in the WHO on Monday. By setting much clearer targets in advance and seeing whether the targets are being met, we want to gain more knowledge and information to assess whether it is really true what the Minister claims. For this reason, it would be strange to say in advance that you do not agree with it, while the Minister has promised to make some important improvements.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u200	I think Einstein once said that insanity is that you do the same thing every time, but always expect a different outcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u201	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u202	Mr Boekestijn also hoped that things would change in 2007 and 2008. One more time this, one last chance, we're gonna write another note. New abbreviations were invented again. More management language was used. We've been almost ten years, and nothing's changed. We don't know yet if the money is well spent. The effectiveness has still not been proven. We don't get any further, but the VVD signs every year at the cross. She barks sometimes in the Volkskrant, but in practice she doesn't bite.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u203	The VVD's position on development aid is well known. We believe that the budget can at least be halved. We believe that there should be much more freedom of choice for Dutch taxpayers. They should decide whether they want to contribute to it. At the same time, we must note that development aid has been going on for 40 or 50 years. We also understand that you cannot change that from yesterday on today in the way that in the VVD's opinion is the best. It also means that you shouldn't run away from the improvements you can add as long as the help is there. That's what we do. The difference between 2007-2008 and now is that the Court has used a method of assessing the budget that has not been applied before. I think it is only reasonable to first see what the results are.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u204	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister and her people for their reply, both orally and in writing. We appreciated that very much. Thanks also to the Minister for the commitment to clarify the 25% of civil society in the Spring Paper. We would also like to know when tenders will be opened. Perhaps the Minister can say something about this now before she sends us a letter on this matter. In this way we will receive an answer on general budget support in the EU trust fund. But, yes, I have to make a motion on that one anyway. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the EU-Africa Summit set up an EU trust fund totalling around EUR 1.8 billion by the European Commission and by European countries;]] [[Whereas general budget support from the European Union's budget should be phased out as far as possible;]] [[Whereas it is not clear how the European Commission will fill the EU Trust Fund with EUR 1.8 billion;]] [[calls on the Government to urge the European Commission to top up the EU Trust Fund as much as possible with funds that would otherwise be spent by the EU through general budget support,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Ghana does not wish to include processed asylum seekers from the Netherlands;]] [[noting that the Minister has therefore decided to give less financial resources to Ghana;]] [[noting that on the other hand, the Minister makes EUR 50 million available to tackle youth unemployment in Africa, and that money will also be spent in Ghana;]] [[calls on the Government to take into account the willingness of countries to take back asylum seekers who have been processed and thereby stop the contribution to Ghana from this pot in the allocation of funds from the EUR 50 million pot,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Agnes Mulder and Mr Smaling. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XVII-31]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Agnes Mulder and Mr Taverne. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XVII-32]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u205	I have a question about the final motion. If we cut back on aid, we normally do so on government programmes, because it affects the government and it needs to be encouraged to work with it. In this case, it is not a public programme, it is support for entrepreneurs, who have nothing to do with the government. I would almost say that in those countries there is no part or part of it. In Ghana that is a bit better, but not very much. The money also goes to NGOs, who invest everything. There has just been a tender. Does Mrs Mulder want to cut that money, because the country is not taking asylum seekers back? That clutch is new. Mrs Mulder should explain how this will work in future. Are we going to stop all aid to a country if it does not take asylum seekers back?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u206	I do not think it is such a crazy idea for Mr Van Laar to be very critical of supporting countries that do not take their people back. These are our partners. If you want to be a partner, you have to shape it with all the other parties in your country in a good way. You can't want to see one thing completely separate from the other. For example, if the withdrawal of asylum seekers goes wrong, you cannot say: it is a pity, but that was not my package; that Dutch taxpayers do something for our country elsewhere, we do not really care. I'm really having a hard time with that. You're actually saying to the Dutch taxpayer: fat, fat bad luck.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u207	I think it's the other way around. Take a country like Burundi, where the president is literally hunting down his own people. So all he has to do is to ensure that we no longer support the free media, that we no longer support the civilsociety organisations that are defending human rights, that we no longer give food aid to the refugees who walk there, that we no longer invest in the development of that country and in the things that are desperately needed there, while the President is attacking his people, is not to take back his asylum seekers. That does not seem to me to be the policy. If there is any reduction, this should only be done on government programmes; not on what we are doing to bother the government sometimes or to change it. Would Mrs Mulder agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u208	Here two countries are compared, but one is in about a state of war and the other is an emerging country. So that equation is totally flawed. This country could well discuss the withdrawal of asylum seekers with the Netherlands, but it simply refuses to do so. Instead of Mr Van Laar saying that Dutch society should not accept that, he says: give them extra money, because it's all so pathetic.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u209	Mr. Chairman. The PvdA is therefore not in favour of stopping aid to people who are not part of the cause of the conflict with the Netherlands. This is how we make young people the victims of the behaviour of their own government, and they are often enough. That is precisely why we have development cooperation. In my term, I have drawn attention to various problems, including the root causes of migration. The Minister said good things about that. I thank her for all her first-term answers. We have looked at the multi-annual Strategic Plans of the different partner countries and have seen that migration is not really paying attention to them. Now these strategic plans are from a few years ago, but we hope that, if they are revised, migration will receive attention. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the multi-annual Strategic Plans of our partner countries do not address migration and the position of migrants;]] [[calls on the Government, when reviewing the Multiannual Strategic Plans, to pay particular attention to the possibilities of addressing the root causes of (further) migration within those plans,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Van Laar, Van Veldhoven, Voordewind and Agnes Mulder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XVII-34]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u210	One of the countries for which this is very much needed is Ethiopia, for example. There are many refugees who move from Ethiopia into European and other countries. There is also a threat of famine in Ethiopia. I have already mentioned that in the first term. Ethiopia is a proud country, and it is sometimes justified. However, the country is so proud that it requires too little aid and, for example, only half of the problems are acknowledged, which means that only half of the food aid needed will be provided. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the UN states that in the coming months 15 million people need food aid in Ethiopia;]] [[Whereas the Government in Ethiopia seems reluctant to ask for the necessary assistance;]] [[calls on the Government to urge the Ethiopian Government to seek the necessary assistance as soon as possible and to urge that adequate aid be given internationally so that people do not die unnecessarily,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Laar, Van Veldhoven and Voordewind. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XVII-35]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u211	The Minister spoke in her term of office about countries that want to get rid of the development aid relationship themselves. Mr Van Laar's motion literally means that countries should be encouraged to ask for more help. That's kind of the reverse world, isn't it? This also goes directly against the Minister's policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u212	One is about the auxiliary relationship in a general sense. This is a very specific problem, namely this year's famine. It is noted that 15 million people will be in famine in the coming months. According to the Ethiopian government, these are 8 million people. It wants to fight this famine, but then there is not enough food to go to that country. If it's okay... if it's all wrong, 7 million people are gonna get in serious trouble. Sometimes governments don't do what's right for their own people. That's one of the reasons why we have development cooperation, and in this case that seems to me to be the case. We also know the Ethiopian Government as such. That is why it is good to call for this, to persuade the Ethiopian Government to ask for sufficient help.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u213	Would it not be more appropriate for you to try to get into politics in Ethiopia, to convince the government there, rather than from the Dutch Parliament?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u214	Thank you for the suggestion, but we are here in the Dutch Parliament. From the international system we can very well provide food aid. We've proven that time and time again. It is important, however, that there is sufficient if people are hungry, even if their own government does not recognise it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u215	Did I hear Mr. Van Laar say it's okay if people are hungry? I'm sure he didn't mean to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u216	I don't think he said that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u217	Okay. Anyway, famine is often also due to Dutch policy. Let me give two examples. South Africa used to be a food-exporting country, but then the development aid came and now the famine is on the doorstep. Another example was that we were able to finance: Mr Mugabe and ZANU-PF. Zimbabwe used to be Africa's grain barn, but today people are hungry there. This is due, among other things, to Dutch policy, because we have financed the two clubs in power there. Is Mr Van Laar proud of the fact that we can contribute to famine through development aid?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u218	I am very proud that the Netherlands has been contributing to the fight against famine in various places in the world for many years, even in many places in the world. That really is a result that we can be proud of. I do not share Mr Bosma's connections. Mr Bosma knows that too. However, I am pleased that he has attributed so much effect to development aid, which is new to the PVV, but for about a year now he has been blaming development aid genocides and now famines. We also caused the AIDS epidemic, I believe, with development aid. Well, that's a big effect, anyway. I agree that there are major effects, but we differ on what exactly these effects are. We see it more in the context of achieving the millennium targets, for example. There are major effects visible and not the effects described by Mr Bosma.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u219	So the Labour Party is proud of the fact that development aid has gone to Mugabe and proud of the fact that development aid has gone to the PvdA's sister party, the ANC.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u220	I think I can be really proud of the history of the Labour Party and the ANC. With Mugabe, that's less the case, but that doesn't mean you shouldn't be giving help. We are helping countries with regimes that do very bad things. That's why we're helping it. If all the countries were to do good things for their people and govern in the general interest, I advocated this last year in the budgetary procedure, and we would need much less development aid. It is precisely the fact that governments fail sometimes out of purpose, sometimes out of ignorance, which is one of the reasons why development aid is still so necessary. And that's too bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u221	Thank you. Did you come to the end of your term or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u222	No, I've got about three minutes left. What we also repeatedly call attention to is the people with disabilities and inclusive development cooperation. We would also like to call for inclusive emergency aid. Today we have reached a report which shows that up to 75% of people with disabilities are not reached by emergency services. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that many people with disabilities are on the run;]] [[Whereas up to 75% of them are not reached by emergency services;]] [[calls on the Government to urge emergency services to reach people with disabilities and to remove as much barriers as possible to receiving aid,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Laar and Mr Voordewind. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XVII-36]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u223	Among these barriers, we think for example of physical barriers at water points and food outlets, but also of the way you organize things. Do people have to line up and how long? We also think of communication, for the deaf and for the blind. People with disabilities should also be taken into account, especially if a camp has been operating a little longer. Over the past year, we have been drawing attention to the role of diaspora in development cooperation. Recently I was allowed to speak at the IGNITE! conference at Spark in Amsterdam about the role of diaspora in entrepreneurship. That has inspired us to the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that diaspora play a special role in enterprise in fragile states;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how to better stimulate migration and development policies and business tools, including the Dutch Good Growth Fund, in fragile states through diaspora,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Laar, Van Veldhoven and Voordewind. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XVII-37]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u224	The motion is very similar to a motion I tabled on the same subject last year. We also had a little debate yesterday on the diaspora and on the amendment that I gave Mr Van Laar for inspection a while ago. Then he didn't need it. So I'm a little surprised at this motion. What exactly is the intention? Is it intended that the diaspora will be involved, but that it will all go through Hivos, Oxfam and the established white NGO order and that the diaspora will have to see how to get in between them?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u225	I started my spokesperson for development cooperation by making it possible to directly finance organizations from the south. So I think that's a crazy accusation. The Dutch Good Growth Fund must be an inclusive window. That is where diaspora should be able to go and get the help they need. That's not the case now. At the IGNITE! conference many entrepreneurs were from diaspora and they also said that they have that experience. Even the people of the Dutch Good Growth Fund who were there, acknowledged that there were difficulties to provide sufficient support. That's where the motion comes from. Also in general discussions on the Dutch Good Growth Fund, we raised this point and discussed it with the Minister. You didn't mention it at the time. I don't know exactly when which motion, et cetera. For the past week, I've had my motions ready. After that, I saw your amendment pass. I saw that the amendment was not something we could support, because we do not want a separate pot for diaspora, but rather that diaspora can simply participate in the Dutch Good Growth Fund. It's a one-stop shop idea. I simply tabled the motion because we cannot support the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u226	It is not about claiming subjects, because that is not at all the issue. But don't you think it's a bit of a trick to come up with this motion now, when our input has made it quite clear that this has been a spearhead for us in the debate? I really do not think it is possible for you to put that motion under my nose during this debate, when I started talking to you on this subject a few weeks ago. Again, we don't have to claim subjects. I don't know if this kind of prank is typical of the Labour Party, but I don't have a good word for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u227	That's clear. I can only observe that we have already raised the issue of the Dutch Good Growth fund at the last general discussion. I spoke at that conference. I've spoken to diaspora entrepreneurs. It is because of that necessity and knowledge that I am tabling this motion. I really didn't think for a moment that you could have been so touched by this. That is why I simply tabled that motion requesting that it be co-signed. I know you think it's an important point, too. But if you look back, you can see that in my entire spokespersonship involving diaspora in development cooperation is an important point. I also called on the Minister, during the last debate on Burundi, to sit down with the diaspora and see how they can be served and how their grievances can be heard. That's a recurring theme for me. So I don't know why you think it's exclusive to you. For me, it is certainly an important issue. Hence this motion in this debate. Also in the first term I simply inserted this. It's not something I made up between the first and the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u228	Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by thanking the Minister for the comprehensive answer to the questions. I note that, after three years, with the policy of this cabinet in the field of foreign trade and development cooperation, we have brought about a modernisation that is unprecedented. The Minister deserves to be congratulated for that. I have commented on this in my speech, but the budget now before us can of course count on the full support of my group. And I'd like to talk about the math by the spokesmen. How can I put it nicely? My colleague, Mr Taverne, came out very neatly, but I have to come back to the numbers he mentioned. I've had a fact check done by another fraction of good cause. It was exactly the same ratio of 1:2. Mr Taverne needs to take a closer look at how that goes on his pocket computer. Those numbers were wrong. Therefore, my group certainly does not share his assessment of the budget, of the effectiveness of development aid. I think Mr Taverne has more in words than in numbers. That was kind of my conclusion today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u229	Mr. Taverne feels challenged.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u230	It was so nice and now this! If so, I ask Mr Vos. I understand that, and I did not expect the PvdA Group to agree in advance with everything I put forward on behalf of the VVD Group. But I'm happy to face the challenge. Let's put the algorithms next to each other and get them through there. Then we'll come back to that later, sometime in the next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u231	I have two motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u232	I see that Mr Bosma also has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u233	The criticism of Mr Taverne and the rapporteurs last Monday was, of course, quite one-dimensional and clear, namely that the effectiveness cannot be seen from the budget. Is that something Mr Fox agrees with?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u234	I think I have just made it clear that I congratulate the Minister on the way in which she has used the modernisation of the budget. I also find it embarrassing to note that the rapporteurship and the BOR note should lead to confidential information being made public. I am very sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u235	Mr Bosma in the second instance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u236	Mr Taverne has a point of order. It always comes first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u237	Mr Vos refers to what happened to an internal note last Monday. He's absolutely right about that. I think I am also speaking on behalf of Mr Smaling as rapporteur when I say that this was an extremely unfortunate situation, which nobody agreed with, and I regret it. Mr Vos was not at the procedural meeting yesterday, we noted. He was unable to be present when the decision was taken to go into this matter, precisely in order to prevent notes such as these from appearing prematurely, and also to maneuver the Chamber's administration into a position in which one cannot defend oneself. I want that to be established and I trust that Mr Vos will support it next time in his presence.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u238	The point has been made and Mr Vos may now respond, but I note that something has happened in another consultation. I think it would be wise, if this were discussed in the procedural meeting, to follow up on the issue there and not in this debate. But I will give you the opportunity to respond briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u239	I think there's been a misunderstanding. I did not wish to address Mr Taverne in any way. I have heard from my colleague Mr Van Laar that the decision-making process has taken place. Mr Van Laar gave his agreement on behalf of the PvdA Group. I think that something is now emerging in the dispute which perhaps should not have taken place in this area at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u240	I think that is a good end to this discussion, which you will undoubtedly continue. Mr Bosma has the floor for his second interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u241	Something remains to be said between the two gentlemen, Mr President, but that is not up to me. My question was about effectiveness and I got the answer that the modernisation of the Minister's policy is so great. But that wasn't my question. My question is very simple and one-dimensional: what does Mr Vos think of the criticism of both rapporteurs, namely that the effectiveness of the policy cannot be seen from the budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u242	My view is that the effectiveness of the way we spend our development funds in the Netherlands is far better in relation to those funds than Mr Bosma's input during this debate. Mr. Chairman. I have two motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u243	I am really sorry, but Mrs Mulder also has a question for you, and you are popular with questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u244	I would like to say that the rapporteurs have noted that it is very difficult for this budget to be able to establish precisely that effectiveness. Other parties indicate that, too. This does not mean that not all the policy pursued by the Minister has been extensively evaluated with thick piles of paper. That is not the point at all, but it is very difficult to see the effectiveness in relation to this budget. That's what this is all about. Fortunately, the Minister has promised to improve the effectiveness of her budget. The CDA appreciates that, but I would like to have made this point here, otherwise there will be a very strange picture of the rapporteurs and of what we discussed earlier this week on this budget. I therefore have no question at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u245	Do you still want to respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u246	I think it was more of an announcement than a question. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the first import agreements should be concluded in the coming year and the initiative should be primarily with industry;]] [[Considering that multi-stakeholder dialogues have already been launched in several sectors to prepare voluntary agreements, and that the government, as one of the parties, has a say in the final outcome;]] [[Whereas there is still no clarity on the monitoring of such agreements;]] [[calls on the Government to strengthen its position within the negotiations by clarifying monitoring and sanctions and by establishing an independent monitoring agency,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that many developing countries have high economic growth potential, but are getting too slow, particularly young people leaving their countries;]] [[Whereas, unlike several other countries, the Netherlands does not have a development bank capable of financing large-scale projects in the public sector to lay foundations for economic growth in developing countries;]] [[Whereas such a development bank increases the development impact of Dutch industry in developing countries;]] [[Considering that development banks not only use national ODA funds, but also have (substantive) capital available for projects in the public sector, which can also be catalyzed by EU funds;]] [[whereas the Dutch development bank FMO has recently expanded its activities by financing projects in the public sector;]] [[calls on the Minister to further shape FMO's role as an engine for the implementation of a strategic investment agenda for the Netherlands aimed at developing countries, and to facilitate FMO to this end,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Jan Vos and Van Veldhoven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XVII-38]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Jan Vos and Teeven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XVII-39]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u247	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for the answers. At least three rules, that's more than last year, so there's an upward trend. I actually liked the debate yesterday, because we made it a kind of APB together. I've been interested in the climate for a year, but I've never been able to discuss it. Now it was finally possible. I was never allowed to say anything about the asylum flow either, but yesterday I could. That's the nice thing about the development aid portfolio, so let's count our blessings. Furthermore, I cannot make it more fun than it is, but the budget for development aid has financed at least four organisations dealing with genocide: the ANC in South Africa, the Frelimo in Mozambique, the MPLA in Angola and the Zanu-PF by Robert Mugabe in Zimbabwe. All these clubs are now in power and demolish their countries, and they do so with financial support and the blessing of this ministry. This makes the Netherlands also guilty and complicit in the misery in those countries, in the corruption, filling up pockets, in the miserable education and in the stinking hospitals. Think, for example, of all the wrongs that the ANC is now committing in South Africa. This morning, parliamentarians Anton Alberts in the South African Parliament said that the country has a lot of primes under the ANC regime. I'll give you four. For the first time the country looks into the economic abyss, for the first time the currency has almost the junk status, for the first time corruption is widespread, for the first time farmers are killed massively, so that famine threatens. So it was said this morning in the South African Parliament and so it is. Much more could have been said, for example about 114 racial laws, ANC apartheid, South Africa on its way to failure status, on its way to the Third World. Something was not said, namely that the ANC could only be located with foreign aid, including from the Netherlands. Thus, the country's largest anti-apartheid organization, Inkatha, was destroyed. I understand that the Minister does not want to say anything about this and that she wants to get rid of it with a whim. The fact that development aid is responsible for genocide, mass murder, torture camps and the disappearance of people does not, of course, fit in with the pink, sweet dreams of "you should see us playing the good man" compassion with other people's money. Let us also remember that the ANC is the sister party of the Labour Party. And look what is happening in Angola, Mozambique and Zimbabwe. The last white peasants are killed. That's what Mr. Mugabe called for. Mr. Mugabe would object if there were any white reporters around. Mrs Mugabe said this week that women who are being raped are due to the short skirt they wear. Those are all people we have supported with our taxpayers' money. That's why I'm filing a small motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Mostly that in the 1970s and 1980s widespread human rights violations took the form of genocides in Mozambique, Angola, Zimbabwe and South Africa;]] [[Whereas these massacres occurred while the Netherlands financed relevant liberation organisations and governments from the development aid budget;]] [[calls on the government to apologize for spending taxpayers' money on genocide organisations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bosma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XVII-40]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u248	There is no evidence that there is a relationship between economic growth and the $2,500 billion that the West has spent on development aid. None. And only economic growth contributes to a better fate for the poorest. That there are all kinds of projects we can afford, I'm sure. 800 million condoms to Africa are regarded as a success in itself, but what effect does that have? There's no proof. We are fighting against youth unemployment in Ghana to stop a stream of 60 million people. We influence laws in Ethiopia. Mr Asscher was quite right to be very angry at the fact that Turks received mail from the Turkish government in the Netherlands, because that is foreign interference. We are concerned about the number of women in politics in Rwanda. I would say that Africa should develop itself and that the continent itself should say goodbye to corruption. This is the first condition for economic growth. Africa doesn't do enough. Unfortunately, that is Africa's choice, but we cannot influence it. There is no evidence of the effectiveness of development aid. See last Monday's excellent debate. There is no indication of the impact of the policy. It is not clear what the successes with which they are screened are now. We don't know. In the end, we don't know what the results are. The minister spoke of two planets. Yes, there are. That is the planet of the Gesinnungsethik and the planet of the Verantwortungsethik. In the world of development aid, the Gesinnungsethik applies. It's about intent. If the intention is right then it is right, no matter what the effects are and no matter what the costs are. I'm glad the audience understands. The planet of the Netherlands wants to cut down on one thing in particular, and that is that weird development aid. I look forward to the day when that wish becomes the basis for policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u249	Mr Klaver has another question for you, Mr Bosma. So I think you should stand still for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u250	It is commendable that Mr Bosma is talking about the effectiveness of policies. If you are making policy proposals, they must be well-founded. I really hope the Minister has listened carefully. In that context, I would like to ask how the PVV itself deals with this, for example with the idea that you could protect the Netherlands by closing all borders. Could I get an efficacy support from that? I ask this question because Mr Bosma was so happy that he could also talk about migration and refugees. So I am very curious how effective that is, what he is basing himself on, where the zero measurement is, how we are going to do it and how we are going to evaluate it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u251	The zero readings are there, of course. It's now. That's pretty easy to quantify, because then you can just start comparing the numbers. You can also look at the past, for example. The Netherlands has always had these boundaries. We've had border guards for a long time. So you can just look at that. If you're gonna investigate that, you're just gonna look at what's coming in and what's the impact of policy. If there is one policy that is easy to quantify in the future, if we do so, I understand that Mr Klaver is becoming more and more enthusiastic about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u252	Mr Bosma criticises the Minister, so I am trying to see how the PVV does so in its own proposals. For the future, I now understand how we should quantify that. However, he is also talking about the fact that it is very effective. We must only pursue policies that are effective. How is it effective to close the borders? What is Mr Bosma basing himself on?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u253	If you closed the borders completely, no one would get in. If you analyze it at the level of effectiveness, it would be 100% effective. However, I do not think anyone wants the borders to be so close that no one can get in. Only some people need you to keep them out. You do that, and you analyze it, and you quantify it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u254	Mr Smaling also has a question on this or on another point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u255	The first part of Mr Bosma was to press the repeat button of yesterday's deadline. I can't wait to see how he's gonna do it next year. He continues to make selective choices from parts of African history, I think. He takes Mozambique as an example. There has been a long period in which Frelimo and Renamo faced each other. For example, there is a very large reservoir in northern Mozambique, Cahora Bassa, with a dam. It supplied power to the entire country. With the help of the South African apartheid regime, Renamo consistently sabotaged that electricity supply for years. Two kilometers outside Maputo, you risked getting a bullet in your head. When that was over, Mozambique was all blossomed up. Now go to Maputo. That's a city that's alive. Chissano, the previous president of Frelimo, is one of the most wise men in Africa, who does very good things there. Is Mr Bosma going to talk about that next year?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u256	I haven't decided what I'm going to talk about next year. I would like to be influenced by Mr Smaling, who is also one of the most wise men in Africa, I understand. I don't know if Mozambique's doing so well. I hear only very negative stories about that country, for example about the enormous corruption and about the pocket stuffing of Frelimo. Professor Smaling is of course in love with Frelimo because Frelimo has always positioned himself as a socialist organization, but Frelimi is of course just an ethnic vehicle of the Tsongas. They account for about 13% of the population and live mainly in the south, i.e. mainly south of that river. Those Tsongas are generally a lot better. They actually introduced some sort of apartheid system. Those Tsongas are favored everywhere. I share Professor Smaling's conclusion that Mozambique is not doing so well. The same applies to Angola. That was also a Portuguese colony. The people there are now going out on the streets. They're screaming for freedom. People who oppose the MPLA disappear behind bars. I'm naming the rapper who was arrested again recently. That's how it's done there on the assembly line. Mr. Dos Santos, the president and leader of the MPLA, is the richest man in the country. That's not the kind of socialism you want, is it, Mr. Smaling?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u257	I am not going to defend Mr Dos Santos right now. Look, these countries, of course, have their history. Streams like the MPLA and the other movements in Angola and Mozambique can be said of anything. Often, of course, there is still a history of European or Russian interference. However, it is simply not right to throw all these countries into a pile and say: things are not going well and we have thrown away a lot of taxpayers' money in those countries. You can see a lot in Mozambique. Perhaps now all minerals are being removed without taxing them. Mr Bosma, I will take you with me once when I have the opportunity. If you go to Mozambique now, you will see that things are really much better there than when the white apartheid regime of the neighbouring country systematically undermined the situation there. I hope you will read some books in which that is demonstrated. It's nice to listen to the cherrypicking of you, at least if you like an unexpected argument, but it's not the whole story.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u258	Four genocides. There's nothing to argue with.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u259	In this debate, we seem to be speaking a little against deaf ears. I also have a bit of a déjà vu feeling. The debate is similar to the debates we had earlier with Arend Jan Boekenestijn on this subject. It called for a demonstration that development cooperation would lead to economic growth in African countries. We had that discussion with him back then. In the end, we came to the conclusion that the goal of development cooperation is not so much economic growth as combating poverty. That's what you have to do with the most marginalized groups. They do not come along when economic growth is increasing. Does Mr Bosma therefore agree with me that this should be seen in the perspective of economic development and the fight against poverty? Let me give you an example of Afghanistan. Thousands of girls have now gone to school more than before. You can quantify that, can't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u260	Economic growth has always been the starting point of Dutch development aid policy. All you have to do is read William Easterly's books on this, or the World Bank publications, such as Growth is good for the poor. I believe that that book belongs to Mr Kraay. Such works show that there is no relationship between the $2,500 billion that the West has pumped into the Third World and economic growth on the one hand. Other countries, which have not or hardly had development aid and which, let us say, were poor around 1950, but have made the right decisions themselves, have grown incredibly. Israel was just a desert around 1950. South Korea was bombed in 1950. That country was economically as strong as Botswana at the time. However, South Korea has grown and Botswana is doing very badly, as much of Africa is doing very badly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u261	When we talk about the Asian tigers and the green revolution, you're talking about a very different kind of help that was given at the time. This was very different to the aid we are now providing in the fight against poverty. My point is that you can quantify things. If we are building schools and we are partly ensuring safety, then we can say that there will be a lot more girls going to school. If we hit a well with the local community and we do it sustainably, water will come out of that well. Then people have clean drinking water and then they don't get sick anymore. You can quantify all that, and it's called poverty reduction. That's the purpose of this ministry.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u262	That is what Mr Voordewind says, but it is often called a waste of money. I said on Monday that many wells will have been hit, but what happens if the European financier leaves? Is that well gonna stay? I know a lot of stories, and they're often anecdotal. People say the well was there. When those Europeans left with their tropic helmets, the well was demolished and sold on the market. I have also said on Monday that it is usually a nice project in the short term: the house is being built, the number of women in politics in Rwanda is rising by 3%. Congratulations! At the moment when it is no longer the project from the West, it sinks into the legs, very often almost always. It is therefore not a fight against poverty, but a waste of money. Development aid is theft of our elderly, sick and disabled. These 4.1 billion must be spent in the Netherlands and not in all those corrupt nests in Africa.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u263	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for replying. I have a number of motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the allocated costs for first-year asylum treatment are not directly identifiable in the external trade and development cooperation budget;]] [[Whereas the number of asylum seekers may vary considerably per year and thus also the associated costs;]] [[calls on the Government to recognise the allocation for first-year reception of asylum seekers to the budget states of Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation as such in a separate policy article,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is an innovation fund for emergency aid;]] [[Whereas, in addition to food, water, tents and blankets, in the event of a disaster, light and safe heat are also crucial for safety and health;]] [[Calls on the government to discuss with the Dutch Relief Alliance whether innovative sustainable solutions such as solar lamps and cookstoves can be included in standard stocks that can be deployed quickly;]] [[calls on the Government also to discuss the possibility of more social production of emergency goods,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Netherlands has committed itself internationally to the agreement that climate finance should be additional to official development assistance;]] [[calls on the Government to make this distinction clear to the Court in the 2017 budget, including contributions from industry,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Veldhoven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XVII-41]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Van Veldhoven and Van Laar. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XVII-42]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Van Veldhoven, Agnes Mulder and Smaling. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XVII-43]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u264	I understand, of course, that the Minister should record in a budget a contribution from industry in a different way than her own contribution, but it would be appreciated for the information for the Chamber. I've got two more motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to add the funds in the "Dutch Good Growth Fund" pillar in respect of export financing to the pillar for investment in local SMEs while retaining the right to draw the first pillar,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas women play a crucial role in preventing radicalisation and extremism, as well as in rebuilding after a conflict, as also recognised in UN Resolution 1325;]] [[Considering that the IOB review highlights the need for local actors to promote stability, democracy, the rule of law and the protection of human rights in Africa and the Middle East and that women can play a key role in this process;]] [[noting that the Cabinet agrees that the support of democratic transitions in the MENA region serves the Dutch interest;]] [[calls on the government to allocate more funds within existing sources for programmes that focus precisely on involving women in peace-building in the MENA region,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Veldhoven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XVII-44]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Veldhoven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XVII-45]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u265	Some things are priceless, such as providing safe abortions, shelter for people on drive or combating child labour. However, this costs money and that is why it is very good that we have an OS budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u266	Mr. Chairman. The most important question is, of course, what is going to happen with the Autumn note on Monday? We must then be clear about the 400 million needed to pay for the reception of first-year asylum seekers. Otherwise, it will be a huge gap in this Minister's budget. I'm eagerly looking forward to Monday. I hope that we do not need a reopening of this debate, but that we are reassured by the amounts we see on Monday. That has everything to do with the motion Slob.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u267	There are, of course, all kinds of sensitivities in this budget for the Christian Union, for parade horses and favourite projects. Perhaps 300, 400 or 500 million, who knows, will be shifted to this budget. Will the Christian Union continue to support this budget anyway?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u268	We will see what happens on Monday. We are not only complaining, but also trying to think constructively with the cabinet. At the General Reviews we tabled a motion calling on the entire cabinet to update this minister and fill her gaps. After all, the Minister could not have foreseen that so many people would have to take up its budget in a short time. If this does not happen, it is forced to eat its own budget as it were. That leaves less money for the fight against poverty. We'll wait and see on Monday. If the gap remains as large as it is now, we will ask for a reopening of the debate. After all, this is not the way for the Minister to enter next year. The Slob motion included not only more money for the shelter in the Netherlands, but also for the reception in the region. For next year we will see the funds fall there as well. We have tabled an amendment to supplement it in any case, aimed at those areas where the international community, for example Eastern Ukraine, has not yet been able to reach it, but also northern Iraq, where there is an urgent need for help. I have the next four motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation has undertaken to spend 25% of the budget through civil society organisations in 2016 at least;]] [[Calls on the Government to monitor the use of those 25% of ODA funds through civil society in 2016 and to report to the Court on this to the Spring paper,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Voordewind and Mr Agnes Mulder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XVII-46]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u269	This motion is somewhat in line with the motion tabled by Mr Mulder last Monday, which is why we tabled it together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u270	A quick question. We share this objective and the Minister has confirmed it. However, the motions will continue to be tabled, now to the Spring Note, then again to report in May and then again in June. However, every time we see that it is only after the end of the year that we know how high the percentage has been. There are commitments throughout the year, calls for tenders and so on. Why do you submit the same motion each time, which we then have to vote against, when we simply agree on the point?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u271	I am not asking Mr Van Laar to vote against this motion, nor am I asking him to vote against the other motions. In fact, I think we are all on the same side, including the Minister. It is, of course, difficult for us to understand it if we do not get it transparent. We have now received the figures for 2014. The Minister is not yet in a position to give figures for 2015, but she is already issuing a weather warning for 2016, as the costs for first-year reception are rising and the percentage is likely to decrease. That is why we are asking in the interim what is going on. So, are you okay? And: can we still help you by using the precious and efficient channel of civil society?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u272	In the annual reports we can expect the figures for 2015 we can also ask from the Minister, but not in the interim, because then we still do not know what the year looks like. It's a shame it has to be like this, but that's how it's gonna be.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u273	We will wait and see what the Minister's opinion is, because she was positive about transparency in the first term. She wants to give it to me, too. That 25% remains her bet. I don't see one-two-three problems there. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[believes that the Dutch Relief Alliance's working methods are effective and efficient;]] [[considers that 25% of the development budget should be channelled through civil society organisations;]] [[calls on the government, the working methods and funding of the Dutch Relief Alliance to continue for a long time within the humanitarian aid policy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Voordewind. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XVII-47]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u274	The next motion is for a long-term amendment to be carried through in a structural manner. It refers to my amended amendment to item No. 33. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas UNICEF social protection programmes in Zimbabwe, Mozambique, Malawi and Zambia have been supported for years by the Netherlands and have protected many orphans who are victims of HIV and AIDS;]] [[calls on the government to provide structural and long-term support for the social protection programmes for AIDS, in line with the amended Voordewind c.s. (34300-XVII, No. 33),]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Voordewind. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XVII-48]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u275	My final motion deals with the financial problems we are talking about and includes the request to see if we can come up with a different financing structure in the future. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, according to the General Court, there is currently no structural solution to cover the costs of first-year reception of asylum seekers;]] [[calls on the Government to come forward with proposals for a structural solution from 2017 to cover above-average costs for first-year reception of asylum seekers in good time, and to seek the additional expenditure needed outside the current and future development budgets,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Voordewind. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XVII-49]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u276	Mr. Chairman. I was prepared for much, but not for the fact that I should be allowed to close today on behalf of the Chamber. I haven't prepared any formal words. I have only a few motions and little time. In the second term, I will deal with two issues. First of all, I would like to address the issue of climate finance, as I had already announced. On the contrary, I think it is important that we provide long-term security. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that climate change is one of the greatest global risks and that the World Bank warns that 100 million people worldwide may fall back into poverty;]] [[noting that a long-term vision and commitment of the Netherlands in the field of international climate finance is needed, indicating what the Netherlands wants to spend, what the Netherlands spends on and what impact we want to achieve;]] [[Considering that clarity about climate finance is important for developing countries as a basis for designing their policies;]] [[calls on the Government to adopt a multiannual climate finance plan up to 2020 and to report annually to the Court,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Klaver and Mr Jan Vos. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XVII-50]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u277	In the first period, I also referred to the investment treaties, the investment protection agreements and ISDS, which are contained in them. I would like to thank the Minister for his written reply and the information he provided. The list of companies that engage in arbitration cases through the Netherlands is comprehensive. I think it's good that there's this insight. That is why I would like to receive this list every year. To that end, I shall table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that investor protection (ISDS) is not transparent in investor protection agreements;]] [[noting that 11% of the known ISDS claims run through the Netherlands;]] [[noting that the number of known ISDS cases is rising rapidly;]] [[invites the Government to inform the Court of Auditors of the companies which have filed an ISDS case through the Netherlands each year, stating the amount of the claim, or have terminated, stating the outcome,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Klaver, Mr Jan Vos, Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mr Voordewind. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XVII-51]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u278	I would once again like to thank the Minister for his written reply. As a result, I also found out that the focus I first had on TTIP, which shifted to the IBOs, should also focus on the Energy Charter Treaty. That is not a bilateral agreement, it is a multilateral one. I hope that the Minister will make an effort to revise that treaty, because many of the things that are environmental-related go through that treaty. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that more than 60 disputes between investors and states (ISDS) have been filed under the Energy Charter Treaty;]] [[noting that changes in energy policy in the interests of climate, safety and health may be hampered by the Energy Charter Treaty;]] [[calls on the Government to undertake a review of the Energy Charter Treaty so that ISDS matters can no longer be addressed due to the sustainability of energy policy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Klaver and Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XVII-52]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u279	I see I have a few seconds left. I would like to use it to say something about the Minister's responsibility, because I could not be at Monday's meeting. It would not be right to say that the Minister is not responsible for the policy. However, I agree with the rapporteurs that the information contained in the budget is not sufficient in my view. I am not asking for more information, but for better access to all available information, so that the Chambers can better carry out their controlling task.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u280	That brings us to the end of the second term of office. I note that the Minister needs 15 minutes to respond to all the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u281	Mr. Chairman. I have a few questions, a few amendments and a number of motions to deal with. I'll go through them soon. Mrs Mulder asked which pot to fill the EU fund from. It is not from the Commission's budget support. Most of it comes from the European Development Fund, reserves and relevant regional and national programmes already planned. There is also money from other European Commission instruments, such as the European Neighbourhood Instrument, the Development Cooperation Instrument and humanitarian aid. What is the leverage of the Climate Investor One Fund, I had to tell Mr. Vos of the PvdA. The ambition of FMO is €1 audience and €10 private money. That's even twice as much as some other funds. For the climate fund with institutional investors it is still a little early to say, but if we follow the Danish example, the ratio would be 1 in 5. Mr Taverne asked my view on the 0.7 standard. I have already explained this in writing. It is perhaps good to say that the Netherlands is committed to renewing and modernising the standard. I believe I have answered a number of written questions. I suppose we'll talk about it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u282	There is endless talk about this standard, but the level of it is insanely not called into question. Jan Tinbergen once magiced it out of the top hat. If you want to modernise within the norm, that is all wonderful, but I would like to know why the level is not called into question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u283	The IBO report does question the level. The debate on height naturally begins with the question of what you want to achieve with it. Mr Taverne is being served with that report. Mrs Mulder asked when tenders would be opened. Most of them are finished. For Voice organisations have been able to submit and the results will be published, or they have started. Consensus and Reconciliation, SRGR Partnerships, FLOW and the new Product Development Partnerships all start on 1 January 2016. So those are done deals. For Voice, the applications were submitted and the five remaining providers will be asked to submit their proposals in December. The National Action Plan 1325 is entering a new phase. The policy framework will be published in spring 2016. The new round of Sustainable Business and Food Security Facility will also start in 2016. This overview is probably not complete. I would like to say to Mrs Mulder that I am sending her an overview. I will pass on the amendments. The amendment in part No. 7 by Mr Van Klaveren, I do not recommend. On the amendment to item No. 2 of the motion for a resolution (Doc. 8 of Mr Ten Broeke and Mr Servaes, I leave the judgment to the Chamber. The amendment in part No. 9 by Mr Smaling, I recommend. I already told you why. I believe that all means should be open to everyone. I see Mr Smaling's encouragement to look again at accessibility. I will be very committed to ensuring that accessibility becomes adequate if it is not sufficient. On the amendment to item No. 2 of the motion for a resolution (Doc. 17 of Van Laar and Van Veldhoven's members on child labour I leave the verdict to the Chamber. The opinion on the amendment to item No. I leave 18 members of Van Laar and Smaling to the Chamber about a shift in the food security budget. The opinion on the amendment to item No. 19 by Mr Smaling and Mr Teeven, 10 replaces, about Wings for Aid I leave to the Chamber. I would like to say that, as far as I am concerned, it should amount to a maximum of 1.5 million. This is based on the knowledge we now have about the proposal. There is still an orderly proposal to be made. Of course there is a demand for this from the aid organisations. Having said that, let me judge this amendment to the Chamber. I think it's an interesting plan. The amendment in part No. 20 of Mr Voordewind and Mr Smaling on Voice, I advise. I have already said in the first term why we are starting on the basis of an evaluation. If that evaluation is positive, I am very open to looking at this again. The amendment in part No. 23 by Mr Taverne and others is about the right to self-determination for women. I thank Mr Taverne for that and leave the opinion on the amendment to the Chamber. It's always good to get more people in your support group. The amendment in part No. Mr Klepsch (PPE). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. 15 is replaced by more resources to craft schools and vocational training courses. Saved Tool is also mentioned in it. I am very sympathetic to that, so I leave the opinion on the amendment to the Chamber. I think this is a good idea. The amendment in part No. 25 by Mrs Van Veldhoven and Mr Van Laar are concerned with preventing unsafe abortions. I have already said that I am very much in favour of this. I leave the opinion on this amendment to the Chamber. The amendment in part No. 26 of Mr Smaling and Mr Taverne replaced the amendment on item No. 16. I have already said that I think it is important to support health systems. I am also very committed to making this part of ordinary work, including with the Global Fund. That's how it's gotta be. We should not have to push that, and we should not need new budgetary rules. I remain committed to this, but I do not recommend this amendment. The amendment in part No. Mr Voordewind (ED). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. 22. It is about a shift within the Relief Fund to the DRA, Eastern Ukraine and Northern Iraq. I leave the opinion on this amendment to the Chamber. The need is high, I repeat Mr Voordewind. The opinion on the amendment to item No. 33 by Mr Voordewind and others about extra resources to social protection I leave to the Chamber. This amendment certainly has my sympathy. It replaces the amendment in part No. 21. I'm coming to the motions now. Mr Smaling's motion for a resolution 28 on self-reflection, I would advise against. We always do this on the basis of evaluations and policy reviews. This may be followed by an adjustment. I have committed myself to working with the Chamber to show more clearly the outcome of these reflections in the budget. I hope that Mr Smaling, the rapporteur last Monday, will see my opinion on this motion in that sense. I'll commit to what we agreed on then. That seems to me to be in the spirit of what he is trying to achieve.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u284	Of course, there are all kinds of self-evaluations, but this motion is a kind of extreme makeover. Because the Minister himself has been through something like this recently, I thought that perhaps this would be better for her than the way she put it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u285	Let me put it this way. Mr Smaling is asking for some kind of meta-evaluation. We are now working on a number of policy reviews that together indicate what we could do otherwise. To put it disrespectfully, I see no reason to put another cup on top of it. I believe that in the course of 2016 Mr Smaling will see that we are responding to this in a number of areas. So I no longer need a separate meta-evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u286	I hope, of course, that this motion will still be adopted, but if it is not, I would ask the Minister to sit next to Minister Schultz van Haegen on Friday morning and ask how she gave birth to the whole process of the Environment Act. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u287	I talk about this repeatedly with Mr Schultz. I hear what Mr Smaling is saying and I will certainly see if I can meet him occasionally when that is discussed in debates. The Taverne motion in part No. 29 is about ambition for export financing. That's a good plan. I'll leave this motion to the House's judgment. The motion in part No. 30 was tabled by Mr Taverne and some of his friends. I find the motion very sympathetic and leave it to the House to decide. Then I come to the motion for a resolution by Mr Mulder/Smaling. 31. I have just said something about the way in which the EU trust fund has been built. There is nothing left for me but to discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u288	The Minister indicated the sources from which the money came for this fund. Does the Minister not think that the money should come from the general budget support rather than from other parts of the European Development Fund?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u289	I believe that the European Commission and the European Council have made an assessment. They have looked at the resources still available or to be released in the short term to support this. A number of agreements have been made on general budget support. We know each other's position on this: Mrs Mulder and I are not necessarily a fan of it, if I may put it that way. These are longer-term commitments, so I think the Commission has simply made a sensible, sober assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u290	I thank the Minister for this explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u291	The motion-Agnes Mulder/Taverne in part No. Thirty-two, I'm not sure. I have said that Mr Dijkhoff and I want to follow the advice of the ACVZ and look very closely at which speeches are best. I do not want young people who have no chance of getting hurt in this way. The Van Laar c.s. motion. in piece No. 34 is about Multiannual Strategic Plans. Where this has not yet been discussed, more attention should be paid to migration. I regard this motion as a support for policy and leave it to the House to decide. The Van Laar c.s. motion. in piece No. 35 on the situation in Ethiopia is superfluous, because an international demand from Ethiopia has come to the United Nations to assist the country to avert the famine. With that, the motion is superfluous and I advise against her. Fortunately, what Mr Van Laar and a number of others would like to see happen has happened. The motion-Van Laar/Voordewind in part No. 36 concerns something that organisations already do. Emergency aid organisations operate from the humanitarian imperative and ensure that precisely the weakest are reached. That makes the policy and the motion superfluous.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u292	"Needless" means "dissuade," right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u293	Yeah, dissuade it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u294	We need that judgment for the members.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u295	The motion is sympathetic to me, but it's standing policy. You could also say: support of the policy, so judge Chamber. Whatever you say, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u296	No, it's your choice. I'm no match for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u297	It is the essence of emergency aid organisations to do this, so let me be heartfelt: the motion supports policy, and so I leave it to the House's discretion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u298	I strongly recommend the report of the Dutch Coalition on Disability and Development. This shows that a lot of people are not being reached. Even if emergency services were to try, they would apparently not succeed. It is therefore necessary to make an extra effort. That's why I tabled this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u299	Well, then it's a good thing I turned my advice on the motion into "judgment chamber." I will be speaking to the relevant organisation shortly and will then specifically zoom in on this report, at the request of Mr Van Laar. The motion in part No. I see 37 as a policy support, and I leave it to the Chamber to decide on that. I would like to ask Mr Vos for his motion in part No. Mr Vos, President of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Vos on his excellent report. The next week we will be discussing the subject of the imvo in general, and we will be able to explore it a little further.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u300	I'll take a look at Mr. Fox.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u301	I will follow the Minister's request.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u302	At the request of Mr Jan Vos, I propose his motion (34300-XVII, No. 38). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u303	Then I come to the motion on part No. 39 members of the Fox and Bitch Group on strategic investment. I see this motion as a support for my policy and therefore leave the judgment to the Chamber. The motion in part No. Forty of Mr Bosma's I'm going to dissuade him. I don't share his analysis and the connections he makes. The motion in part No. Mrs Van Veldhoven's request for the allocation of first-year care to the budget state is addressed. I must advise against that, because it is on the budget of Security and Justice. I repeat that HGIS provides an integral overview of all these costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u304	We do have an overall overview of the costs, but we do not know how much of the OS budget is to be paid. That is why I asked the Minister to consider a separate policy article within her budget, from which the costs can be paid, which must then be transferred to the budget of Security and Justice. If the Minister wishes to reflect on this and respond in writing, I am prepared to hold this motion for a moment. It is important that we get an insight into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u305	I share the desire to gain more insight. I would like to comment on Mrs Van Veldhoven's offer to hold on to the motion for a resolution. I shall return to that with a written response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u306	I'll hold the motion for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u307	At the request of Mrs Van Veldhoven, I propose her motion (34300-XVII, No. 41). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u308	The judgment on the motion in part No. 42 I leave to the Chamber. I think it's a good initiative. Last week I received a report on how energy supply to refugees can be more sustainable. I also said that I would commit myself to this at the World Humanitarian Summit. The motion is very sympathetic to me and I leave it to the Chamber. Then I come to the motion on part No. 44 by Mrs Van Veldhoven. This motion I must advise against. Two weeks ago, I wrote a letter explaining how we deal with the resources. I have also indicated that we will make specific interventions in Track 3. I would like to do that, and for that reason I would like to discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u309	You're the motion in part No. Forgot 43. Otherwise, the members will be confused.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u310	Excuse me. Worse still, I've got the motion in part no. 43 isn't. Maybe someone can give it to me soon. Through you, Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Teeven very much. The motion in part No. 43 by Mrs Van Veldhoven and Mrs Mulder are on climate finance and are asked if I want to make this clear in the 2017 budget. I'll leave the judgment to the Chamber. I will prepare myself for that and see how we can do it best. There are some bangs and clamps on them, but Mrs Van Veldhoven, Mrs Mulder and Mr Smaling know that. Then I come to the motion in part No. 44.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u311	We'd had it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u312	It was dissuaded. The motion in part No. I see 45 as a policy support, so I leave it to the Court to decide. The judgment on the motion in part No. I leave Mr Voordewind and Mrs Mulder to the Chamber. It remains my ambition to spend 25% through civil society organisations. It's gonna be tough, but I'd like to report on progress. Then I come to the motion on part No. 47 by Mr Voordewind. Unfortunately, I have to discourage them, not for substantive reasons, but for procedural reasons. That motion goes beyond 2017 and the horizon of this cabinet does not extend that far. The motion in part No. 47 is therefore discouraged. The motion in part No. Mr Voordewind's 48th report deals with social protection. I see that motion as a policy support. I'd like to leave that to the Chamber. I'm deceiving the motion in part No. 49 by Mr Voordewind, again because it talks about proposing a structural solution from 2017. The horizon of Rutte II doesn't reach that far. I am falling into repetition, but also the motion in part No. 50 of Mr Klaver and Mr Vos go beyond our horizons. I know that the gentlemen see a problem in that. That is just as the situation is now. So I'm afraid I'm gonna have to discourage that motion. The motion in part No. 51 deals with investment protection, the number of ISDS cases and the provision of information on them. I am very kind, but I would like to ask Mr Klaver whether he would like to continue the motion, because I would like to see what information is public. The government has no role in these disputes and therefore does not have that information. I would therefore like to check that before I say with a generous gesture that I am going to do it and that it then appears that it is not possible for reasons outside myself and outside Mr Klaver. If he wants to do that, I'd like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u313	I am, of course, always prepared to do so, because I would like the motion to be carried out. Then I would like to ask the Minister when I can see a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u314	That's got to be possible for the Christmas tree, 'cause I'm assuming we can look this up in no time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u315	I do not think it is very complicated, so that information could perhaps be available for next Tuesday's votes. If that were possible, it would be preferable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u316	That's what I'm gonna strive for. I don't know if it's possible, but I'm definitely gonna strive for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u317	If Mr Klaver does not hold the motion, what is your opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u318	I'm holding the motion now. That'll give the minister some peace. I'm assuming there's an answer for Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u319	At the request of Mr Klaver, I propose his motion (34300-XVII, No. 51). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u320	I have a small point of order. The motion in part No. 51 and the next motion were signed by Mr Jasper van Dijk, but he did not take part in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u321	I think that's okay. He can't be the first one, so as the petitioner, he's under the motion. I can't, but his name could be on it. So there's nothing wrong with procedure. Then that's cleared up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u322	The Minister has already spoken about the motion on item No. 50. That was fast. The Minister has advised against that motion. We have had the debate on this multiannual estimate and on the fact that it is best to look beyond a cabinet horizon. What if I make it a multiannual estimate instead of a multiannual plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u323	Mr. Klaver can't be caught for one hole. That's the same thing. This means that we are drawing up a path on a road which we will no longer be able to follow ourselves. Well, that's complicated for me, isn't it? So I'm sticking to my judgment. I see that Mr Klaver has aid troops. I've done it already, haven't I?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u324	Mr Klaver is certainly not in favour of catching one hole, certainly not with such good colleagues as Mrs Van Veldhoven. It happens all the time. Your entire budget is full of it. In fact, I referred, for example, to the MIRT, to the investment agenda for asphalt. In it, it is even recorded until 2028. Those aren't even estimates, it's been established. I think it is all right if my motions are rejected, and that is what we are used to, but the argument can still gain some strength. I do not think it is correct or at least inconsistent with what the Minister says. Perhaps she would like to come back in writing to why this really is not possible. If she doesn't want it, she can say it now, and I'd love to hear it. But the fact that it can't be is bullshit.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u325	Of course, I do not think so, but I do not think it is a problem to provide further information on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u326	But for the time being, do you stick to "dissuade"?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u327	Yeah, for the time being, I'm really sticking to "dissuade," absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u328	Then that is clear to the Acts. And you admit that you will return to it in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u329	I'm glad the Minister's coming back, but I'm not going to hold this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u330	I didn't have that impression at all. I shall now turn to the last motion, including Mr Klaver, on item No. 52. I leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber, because it is policy support. If there is a new form, I want it finally to cover all investment agreements, including the Energy Charter. Then the evening for Mr Klaver ends a little cheerful.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u331	There was a motion on Ethiopia. We're gonna move them in. It concerns the motion in part No. 35. But I am going to follow the Minister very closely, because if it turns out not to be true, according to my information, it is not true. We are going to call the Minister to order on this, so to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u332	Since the motion-Van Laar c.s. (, No ) has been withdrawn, has ceased to be the subject of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-17.u333	We shall vote on the motions for resolutions next Tuesday. The amendments to this budget will be voted on next Thursday.
