ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u1	I welcome everyone, in particular the Minister and the Secretary of State, and as the first speaker, I give the floor to Mrs Siderius on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. Education is a wonderful subject. We must ensure that children are well prepared for their future. That should be the top priority of any government. Unfortunately, the SP does not see that in the current government. Education suffers from a pay-off culture; it is less and less about children and more about numbers and tests; teachers are sometimes reduced to stamping machines and in the long run this is a bad development. Even worse is that this is especially true for the children. Let's take a look at the Secretary of State's parade, the appropriate education. It's completely lost its shine. Appropriate education has become tighter education. Students with learning and behavioral problems should be kept in mainstream education. Special education is being phased out. They were wonderful visions: so-called appropriate education would improve the quality of education, reduce the number of children sitting at home and give teachers the opportunity to deliver more tailor-made work. Today, a year after introduction, we take stock of the situation. The critics aren't gentle. That's how the Children's Ombudsman called the alarm clock. He warned about a pgb crisis 2.0. Schools escape difficult children; there is no tailor-made job to find a suitable place for pupils; there is no perseverance; schools leave children's educational places dependent on financial interests and there is no substantial reduction in the number of home-owners. To the extent of disaster, the school directors themselves also presented a report. This shows that the schools are massively avoiding the state secretary's famous duty of care. Schools discourage parents of children with behavioral problems, chronic illness or other restrictions from registering; subtle referrals are already made to another school for registration. The duty of care fails and students are thus dragged from school to school, from rejection to rejection, from disappointment to disappointment. All because schools are paid for the results of students by the education inspector. A student with autism or chronic illness is then a risk and the predicate weak school comes in faster. It is therefore not strange that schools should think: let this cup pass me by. Also the teachers and supervisors are not to be applauded. 54% of primary school teachers say there is no support for appropriate education. The appropriate education appears to be a recipe for problems. Teachers cannot give all pupils the attention they need; it is not a solution for pupils with behavioural problems; the classes are too large; there are too few class assistants and therefore there is too little support and guidance. Teachers' workload is constantly increasing. Students do not receive the best education and this cabinet fails, but Secretary of State Dekker bikes on like a positivo and points the accusing finger at the teachers. At first the criticism came far too early, then it turned out that appropriate education had not yet reached full maturity, and then he reported that teachers were afraid of cold water. The accusing finger points a little further. At the demonstration of homeowners, the Secretary of State brought it into his head to say to parents: you should simply register your child at a school! In the magazine Balance Magazine the schools also got a little under out of the bag. About students with autism, the Secretary of State said: I think the problem is knowledge, that schools don't know exactly what it takes to provide children with autism with the structure they need. In the same interview, the Secretary of State said about thousands of children sitting at home: I don't see the problem. The Secretary of State does not see the problem of children who do not receive education. Then he said: appropriate education is based on the assumption that there will be a suitable place. Of course, this is a little naive. It's really not that simple. The SP especially sees a lot of wishful thinking and ideological rigidity with the Secretary of State. We therefore want the whole experiment to end with the so-called 'appropriate education'. There is a need to invest in the training of good teachers. The classes should also be smaller. This is not only a great wish of teachers; 86% of the population want this, according to a poll by Maurice de Hond. The SP therefore submits a law during this budgetary treatment to ensure smaller classes in primary education. With this bill, we immediately put an end to classes of 30 or more students. In the long term, we work towards an average of 23 pupils per class at school level. Class reduction has become a bitter necessity due to the so-called "appropriate education." Then all children will receive the attention and support they need and the towering workload of teachers will be reduced. We are fulfilling a different desire of teachers by releasing 200 million for more support in primary and special education. We are also tabling an amendment on this. According to the Secretary of State, the number of homeowners would fall. That too is a mirage. Meanwhile, there are over 10,000 kids who don't go to school. There is a big gap in the education system, especially for pupils with behavioural problems who are very smart. Special schools for these pupils, with small classes and extra accompaniment, should close the doors or severely shrink down. The Secretary of State swears by the mantra: you should go to the partnerships or the Disputes Committee. These pupils are at least 60 million on the budget because each child is entitled to education. The SP wants this money to be used for customization to students who are still at home. This may involve a combination of measures; think of special schools with a high level of guidance, education at a different location, adaptation of educational programmes, but also of simple possibilities such as dividing courses over two years of schooling for children who are ill, improving the connection with youth assistance, strengthening the combination of education and day care in psychiatry, opting for partial compulsory schooling and strengthening the commitment of the compulsory education officer. We are also tabling an amendment to that effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u3	As Mrs Siderius knows, she finds D66 completely on her side in her fight against plunder class, the too big class. I understand there's going to be a bill. Can she give an indication of the costs? Then I'm sure we can take that into account in the direction of the next formation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u4	Yes. In the long term, 600 million will be made available to small classes in the own-initiative proposals. We invest in that every year. The SP Group has already earmarked money for this in its counter-budget. In the long run, it's gonna be 600 million.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u5	Is the 600 million sufficient to keep the average class size in the Netherlands at 23?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u6	Yes. This is specifically about primary education. We had that commission at the beginning of this century, which dealt with class reduction. At that time 600 million were also assumed. We want to start with that. Every year, we put an extra 100 million in the lump sum. That's what we notice, so it's really spent on class reduction. In the long term, we work towards an average of 23 pupils at school level. I warmly invite D66 to join this initiative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u7	Mr Van Meenen, you want to respond again, but interruptions really go in two. Soon you may be allowed to interrupt again. We're not gonna ask questions three times in a row. Mrs. Ypma?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u8	I'll just take it from here. I am very interested in Mrs Siderius' proposal. I note that she wants to go from an average of 24 to an average of 23 students in a classroom. That's on average one student less per class. I see Mrs Siderius now shaking no, so I would like to hear another explanation. Furthermore, I would like to hear more about the coverage.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u9	About the average of 24 students per teacher, because I assume Mrs. Ypma is talking about the teacher-student ratio. With our own initiative law, we adapt the definition of the teacher-student ratio. This ratio is now about all the teaching staff on the number of pupils. This includes not only teachers who stand in front of the class, but also directors, class assistants or internal supervisors. We want to change that definition so that it is about the teacher who really stands in front of the classroom and teaches. For example, if a director is a director for half of his employment and half is in front of the class, half counts for the ratio. The ratio is now 24, but the number of children in a class is much higher per teacher because that janitor et cetera is also in it. Well, it turns out it is. Studies, including from the Ministry, show that one in 11 classes contains 30 or more pupils. I'm sure Mrs Ypma has seen that the AOb has done all kinds of research on that. In large schools, one in six classes has 30 pupils or more. Class reduction is a deep desire of teachers, also to reduce the workload. About the funding the following. In any case, the SP is prepared to invest a lot of money in this area in the coming period. We will start with this in our 2016 counter-budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u10	Thank you very much. It's a complicated story to explain that Mrs Siderius is adjusting the definition. I know the definition of 24 and she goes to 23 students now. That would be on average one child less per class. I wonder what the class size is now under the definition of Mrs Siderius.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u11	A brief answer, Mrs Siderius.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u12	We are assuming a definition that looks at the number of pupils on a teacher who actually teaches and stands in front of the classroom. Now one in eleven primary school classes has 30 pupils or more. We want to go back to an average of 23. For the record, we are investing 600 million in this. So Mrs Ypma's reasoning that we are going back from 24 to 23 on average is not correct. That average figure today is based on the definition currently used by the Ministry, but we are adjusting it. Also special education does not escape the cleaver of this cabinet. At the nomination for closure the school for special education stands the Ambelt in Zwolle, Apeldoorn and the rest of the region. 2,100 students have to go to another school and 606 employees are in uncertainty about their job. The director says that all children who need it can just stay in special education. My question is how can that be done if 13 establishments close down? Surely these students have received a declaration of admissibility or an indication of special education for no reason? This will undoubtedly bring new students back to their homes. The SP wants the Ambelt to stay open. It is one of the gems of education in the region. I'd like a reaction to that. Research among teachers in special education shows that this education is against the wall: too high working pressure, too large classes and students with increasingly serious problems in the classroom. It's a cocktail of problems, but the Secretary of State says teachers should do their job better. The announced unbundling of special education will create major problems for tyltyl schools, schools for severely handicapped children, due to the size of these schools, which are not graduate. Because the size is small, the cut between primary and secondary education makes schools fall below the student standard and is therefore simply threatened by their existence. Schools are also losing space to develop. After all, the only logopedist in such a school should soon be covered by two collective agreements with very different rights and obligations. Why not specifically exempt these schools from unbundling? The SP also calls for attention to be paid to the transfer of the scheme through DUO for severely disabled children. Instead of 1,250 registrations, it's 2,500. Looks like the Secretary of State wants to halve the amount per student. That's not supposed to happen, is it? I'd like a reaction to that. Every child deserves education. The same applies to children who have fled war and violence alone or with their parents. I congratulate all the schools and teachers who do everything in their power to give these students a safe place in school. However, schools are ringing the bell. The General Association of School Leaders has great concerns about the education of children who have fled. People are concerned about guidance in the processing of traumas. There's a shortage of teachers. There is insufficient teaching material that fits in with the experience of these children. Moreover, it is not entirely irrelevant that schools do not have enough money to provide good education to these pupils. It's hard to anticipate a sudden influx into education, but now that schools are running out of water, it's time to act. In the letter, the Secretary of State writes that it will cost several millions. How much money are we talking about, exactly? Is this money being transferred to the schools? Is this on top of the current funding of asylum seekers' children? I would like to say one more thing about the VMBO, namely the safety of practical premises. Soon we will discuss the profiles in the vmbo. The SP is looking forward to that. However, my group would like to support the safety of practical premises. 72% of violations in schools did not provide sufficient protection for moving parts of machinery or the complete lack of safety equipment. That's weird, because wearing safety glasses should be as normal as wearing a seatbelt. The SP would like the government to take action on this issue. If security is not in order and there is a failure, a practice room can be closed. For the SP it is necessary that a student learns to work safely during training. That is what we have to do in the workplace.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u13	I will come back to that bill on combating large classes. We can look forward to that bill. Apart from the definition you use, I think you need about 600 million euros to reduce the average number of students per class by one student. But I'm gonna leave that alone for a while. The exciting question with this bill is, of course, how to prevent large classes, pop classes. After all, an average doesn't mean anything. Can Mrs Siderius say anything about how this is dealt with in the legislative proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u14	Yes. There are two things in the law in this connection. First of all, there is an average of 23 students per teacher. Secondly, there is a maximum of 29 pupils. So that limit is the hard limit. With an average of 23 you could otherwise opt for a very small class and a class of 35 students, but hopefully that will not happen and that is not the intention. We really want to get away from those big classes of 30 or more students. The maximum is thus set at 29 pupils.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u15	The debate on such a ceiling is very interesting and, of course, has been going on for a very long time. Is that gonna work or not? For the viewers at home, let me just say, I would like to ask Mrs Siderius the following question. Let's say a small school has 100 students. It would therefore normally be possible to opt for four classes of 25 pupils. It's okay. No, this is a bad example.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u16	One could also turn it into five classes of twenty pupils.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u17	Let me give you another example. I'm sorry. A small school has 62 students. So it's paid for 62 students.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u18	Yeah, so we'll make three classes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u19	That's where we make three classes. So this very small school has to hire an extra teacher. Is funding going to be directed at such schools? Or is the money being poned and distributed according to the lumpsum? If the latter happens, I think that such a small school will have a huge problem with the financing of that third grade. I think that's the problem with such a maximum.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u20	Schools are already funded by the law on the basis of one in twenty pupils. That's just what the law says. So if you're a little cruel, you could say, "You're gonna have to take care of it at the school now." My group believes that this cannot be done because education in recent years has had a lot to do with silent austerity. As a result, the money has had to be used differently and therefore the classes have grown. So it should be possible on paper. Mr Van Meenen talks about a small school with 62 pupils. I happen to have been in a small elementary school myself. I was in one classroom with group 6, seventh grade, and eighth grade. That was a lot to ask from the teacher. However, you can make three classes of twenty students. I don't understand the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u21	The bill's still coming to the Chamber. Mr Van Meenen has already spoken twice in his interruption. I now give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u22	Mr. Chairman. Yesterday we took a big step in the search for the millions that have disappeared. That is the extra money the cabinet has invested in education, but no one knows where it has gone. The Secretary of State himself said, "I don't have any receipts." At the same time, 3,000 extra teachers were promised. Yesterday, a motion by Mrs Ypma and I was adopted stating that school boards should indicate how many additional teachers they have adopted in the last year. That's not bureaucracy. This is a question of much-needed transparency, because too often we hear that educational money has been spent wrongly, for example on expensive buildings or on managers and bureaucracy. This motion will give us clarity. I would like to hear at what time and how the government is going to implement my motion, because you understand that we are curious about the results. The AOb, the General Education Association, already showed that the money is spent on very different things. We as the House of Representatives are obliged to ensure a meaningful use. I come to the model of governance in education. For a few years now we have had the so-called supervisory board model. It's taken over from the business community. Schools were actually regarded as companies with a board of directors and a supervisory board. However, a school is not a company. Supervisory boards do not intervene if quality is distorted and educational money is wrongly spent. It's an old boy network, in which drivers throw each other jobs. Look at the dramas at ROC Leiden, Amarantis and Inholland. In all these cases, megalomaniac drivers caused major problems and the supervisory board did nothing. Also at the University of Amsterdam it remained silent when financial problems arose and training was abolished. That is why I propose that the supervisory boards be abolished. Their tasks can be transferred to the participation which we then give full consent to all important decisions. The participation council and the school board should be comparable to the Lower House and the government. The government doesn't have a supervisory board, does it? It is completely unclear why this is necessary in education. Schools are made up of teachers and pupils and of a school manager. You can see that in the way schools are run. I'd like to get a reaction to that. I'm gonna go to high school for MBO students. That's going all wrong. Some students have to pay more than €1,000 a year for books, materials and other items. That is not possible, but the Minister says that schools should solve it. What kind of lax attitude is that? Grab it, 'cause now students are gonna be sitting at home. Ensure a decent allowance in the cost of study.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u23	I'm just curious about these supervisory boards. Mr Van Dijk is moving very fast. I had hoped to have a little more explanation, because it is quite a far-reaching measure. The Labour Party would also like more participation for students and teachers, but should they now become supervisors themselves? Is that what Mr Van Dijk is proposing?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u24	Sure. They should be overseers, as well as Mrs Ypma is the government's supervisor. We control the government and a school is essentially similar. The co-determination controls the board. The big mistake of the last 20 years is that people have started to think: we are making these schools into companies with a supervisory board and a board of directors. I do not need to explain to you that these supervisory councils have been sleeping mostly over the last 20 years. Look at all the dramas with the schools I just mentioned. There was a waste of money there. Money went to managers and bureaucracy and didn't end up in class.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u25	I think it's a little apple-to-pear comparison. Let me focus on the partnerships, because that is precisely where I believe that governance is not right at the moment. There is no supervisory board in these partnerships. I would like to argue in favour of this, because schoolbodies who are competing with each other now also have to check their own bodies. Mr Van Dijk and I share the view that appropriate education is extremely important. Does he agree with me that there should be an independent supervisory board within the partnerships which places the best interests of the children at the centre rather than the best interests of the school authorities themselves?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u26	It shouldn't get weirder. I am in favour of abolishing the Supervisory Board and the Labour Party comes with new supervisory boards, even among the partnerships! Mrs. Ypma, we need to stop working together completely. They're bureaucratic molochs. Appropriate education is compelling education. You say we're on the same page, so you agree. Collaboration doesn't contribute to that. We need to get rid of that. It's a failed model. It stems from the neoliberal nineties led by Wim Kok. It failed! More and more countries see that. Come along with my proposal. I'm counting on your support.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u27	Will you conclude, Mr Van Dijk?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u28	I would like to use a minute of my second term, because I still have such important points. I come to talk about DAMU: the renowned youth education for dance and music. I'm sure the Secretary of State will love it. They have offered a petition for a travel allowance for their students. It's a couple of tons. And what did Mr Duisenberg say? We're gonna take care of that. I know that line. We've been a few months, but nothing's been arranged yet. I made a motion for this. I am counting on Mr Duisenberg's support. Yesterday there were medical students here. They said, "This mandible loan system is a burden on us; we cannot work with it because our study is far too heavy." The result is that there are far fewer students in medicine, much fewer doctors, much less surgeons. Is that what the parties D66, GroenLinks, Party of Labour and VVD wanted? It's the loss of medicine. And now we're stuck with the fried pears. However, I am making a motion. I wonder if I can count on your support, Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u29	It's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u30	Look!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u31	But if you're quoting guys who are offering a petition here, you're gonna have to do it right. The students weren't talking about the maleized loan system at all. That is what Mr Van Dijk was talking about. The students said: we have nothing against a loan system at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u32	That's not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u33	That's what they literally said.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u34	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u35	I've been there. They said: but its effect is a problem for us. I hope that Mr Van Dijk's motion will deal with this, because if there is a'maleized lending system' in it, I can at least say that I will not support it. That would be a shame, wouldn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u36	I understand that Mr Van Meenen is excited about this. He is now crying crocodile tears over the debt system that he himself is passionately in favour of and that he has introduced, so that the medical students now have a big problem and no longer apply. Now Mr Van Meenen is suggesting that he has some nerve that he is prepared to come up with a repair. I also heard GroenLinks say that yesterday. Dear people, I had tabled an amendment to that effect in the course of the examination of the bill. I suggested not to put medical students in the three-year master's phase in the loan system because this would be a drama. Now it has become a tragedy and Mr Van Meenen is standing here saying: yes, perhaps we should do something about it. That's a little late!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u37	Without debating the loan system here, I can say that perhaps part of the effect that fewer medical students apply is caused by listening too much to Mr Van Dijk, who says that there can be no worse disaster for the Netherlands. Apart from that, I think it is extremely important that something happens for this group and that we should try to find each other there. D66 and the other parties, I believe, have always said that we want to continue to look very critically at the way this system is worked out. If this is a negative effect, we'll fix it. The difference between SP and D66 is apparently that D66 fixes something when it's broken while the SP repairs it in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u38	Right!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u39	Apparently, she has a glass ball with which she can predict exactly the future. That's extremely handsome. The SP will always find me by its side if this system has unwanted effects.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u40	Mr Van Meenen said it very well. D66 repairs something after it has destroyed something, namely the accessibility of higher education. The SP said you shouldn't do that because appearances are better than cures. Mr Van Meenen is very late, very late. He could have known for a long time that this would be a problem. Anyway, we'll see. Finally, Mr President, I cannot help but refer to an article in Trouw this morning under the title 'Bussemaker fears greater gap rich and poor'. You really should read this. The Minister wants a study of the division in education, because there are too many private schools and too many homework counseling. There is a gap between vmbo and havo and vwo. There's segregation between low-chance and high-chance. According to the Minister, it must be about upliftment, and for that, she says, we must see whether facilities can be created for pupils who do not get out of all sorts of things. Minister, how about good education? Isn't this really cheap? In the aftermath of the cabinet for a moment, the Minister called for an investigation into the division after three years: "excellency, differentiation, loan system, top education." Then she says that there is a gap. She should have known that a long time ago, and she is also very late with this investigation. I would like to hear what the Minister's role is in this mispolicy, because she is actually going to investigate it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u41	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank my colleagues Ypma, Lucas and Jasper van Dijk for the budgetary research they have done for the permanent Committee on Education; the committee has held separate legislative consultations on this subject. The Solar Challenge is again this year the resounding perspective with which I begin my input. Last week TU Delft and TU Twente took first and second place in the challenger class. And this weekend TU Eindhoven took the first place in the cruiser class. At the WorldSkills, the international professional competitions for MBO in Brazil, we achieved nine times the top 5 and achieved gold in the field of visual merchandising. These inspiring examples have everything I want for the Netherlands: ambition, courage, knowledge, creativity, cooperation and perseverance. It is my ambition and that of the VVD that this is not just for the happy few, but that everyone gets the chance to discover their talents and develop them as much as possible. Education provides the basis for this, for everyone. Education is the basis for freedom. Education is the basis for our democracy and for our prosperity. The Netherlands wants to be a top 5 knowledge economy. With the Hamer motion, the Chamber has formulated a clear ambition. Much has been done since that motion, and there is much that we can be satisfied with. The Netherlands is doing well. We are now in fifth place in the report on the competitiveness of the World Economic Forum. As far as per capita income is concerned, too, we are at number five, this time in Europe. The Netherlands is seventh in the World Happiness Report. So we are also a very happy country. The perspective is good, too. The economy is attracting faster than expected. We haven't been sitting still for years either. During this period of government, we managed to obtain an extra financial boost for higher education through the study advance. Profiles and subjects have been revised to better integrate into the labour market. The flexibilisation of education time will increase the scope for innovation. These are successes that the VVD celebrates. But results from the past do not guarantee the future. Education remains a field with many existing interests and solidified views. It is precisely then that it is important that the parties not only call for more education money, but that they are targeted and come up with concrete ideas. Those ideas are urgently needed, because at this time standstill means decline. Let me briefly comment on three influential trends that the Netherlands has to deal with. First of all, there is a demographic trend. With the present number of births, there are four workers per 65-pluser in 2015 and only two workers per 65-pluser in 2040. So we need to do more with less. The second trend, automation, is potentially a solution to the first trend. Education must respond to this. More automation and the Internet also provide a world that is fully connected and where quality is assessed at global level. People, information, knowledge, services and products can move freely around the world. Geopolitical developments are the third trend. These developments require smart solutions, from education and science. For example, food and water scarcity are increasing, there are several questions about our future energy consumption and climate change requires choices for the future. These trends can be seen as threats, but at the same time they are opportunities for the Netherlands, if the Netherlands can offer smart solutions. This generation and future generations determine the future of the Netherlands together. To seize the opportunities, we all in the Netherlands will have to develop the skills needed for success in the 21st century. We will have to look up our summit, we will have to have ambition and be smart about ourselves. I note that we still have major steps to take. In international perspective, for example, the Netherlands has made a relapse on the so-called human capital ranking of the World Economic Forum. Two years ago, the Netherlands was still fourth on this list; today we occupy the eighth place. One explanation of the current position on this list is, among other things, our relatively high unemployment rate, especially among people over 55 years of age. In addition, the skills acquired by the Dutch in education do not match the demand on the labour market. With regard to capacity for innovation, we are in the sixteenth place, and with regard to the availability of technicians in the 22nd place. In 2014, the top ten of major courses in HBO and university education were only one beta course, which was ranked ninth. I also refer to the development of individual talent. Only 32% of secondary school teachers master the skills of differentiation. According to a study by the LAKS, more than half of the pupils in secondary school do not find the lessons inspiring. There is still a world to be won if we want to give everyone maximum opportunities to discover and develop their talents and live their lives to the full. Many things have been started by the cabinet, including the study advance and the modernisation of the teaching time. I mentioned them before. A national education agreement has been concluded. Quality agreements have been made in the MBO and a scientific vision and a strategic agenda have been published. However, many of the intentions are not yet concrete and we do not know whether they are sufficiently far-reaching. That is what the Education Council and the ESC are saying about the strategic agenda. There is still much talk about initiatives that are encouraged, about experiments and pilots. Investment is made, but without indicating in advance what it will achieve and whether it will reach far enough. This gives you a policy of patches and aspirin. If you don't decide where your goal is and you tune your actions to it, you run the risk of what you often hear in football shows late in the evening by the commentators saying: a lot of movement, but few goals. Earlier, the entire OCW commission noted that 1 billion per year would be invested in teacher quality, but it was not established in advance what would be achieved. We want to work more closely, with the entire OCW committee, on the link between commitment and result, between means and what you achieve with them. We want to focus more on outcome. The Chamber has stated that it is not going to sit on the how, but that it wants to sit on the what. A second example concerns the 150 million for 3,000 young teachers. If money is specifically earmarked for this purpose, the VVD believes that we must also justify whether the objective set is being achieved. The explanation given by the Secretary of State, namely that it is because of the lumpsum and that it is difficult to establish, is very easy. Please explain to the Secretary of State how this 150 million has been deployed and how he can know if it has achieved its objective. The funding system knows its blessings, but also its problems. Questions have been asked about this before. There is now also an investigation into the adequacy of this methodology. The advantages of the lumpsum are more freedom and, at the start, an end to the endless bureaucracy between The Hague or Zoetermeer and the schools. But now we also see the disadvantages: the 150 million for young teachers, the 1 billion for teacher quality and also the money for mathematics and language learning. We wonder where that money has gone and what it has achieved. Therefore, the VVD wants the directors to look at alternatives to the lumpsum or alternatives to the lumpsum. Freedom is about transparency and accountability. Please respond from the Secretary of State. Does he want to look at an alternative to or with the current lumpsum methodology, which gives more responsibility for effectiveness and the quality of education achieved?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u42	This can be another beautiful day: the VVD advocates alternatives to the lumpsum funding! I can see Mr Bishop coming to the microphone as well. With the lump sum funding, school administrators receive one budget, which makes it difficult to determine exactly what they are doing with the money. The VVD wants to take a closer look at that. I think that's a very good idea. The SP says that we could, for example, get the teachers out; then you know for sure that that money goes to teachers and does not end up on that big mountain and may end up in bureaucracy. I tabled a fine motion yesterday asking you to find out how many teachers have been hired with the education money. The VVD voted against it. I was kind of sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u43	I am indeed asking to look at alternatives to or in the lump sum funding. It may well be that with more transparency and a different kind of accountability you can gain a better insight. I voted against your motion because I would like to see it broader, in the context of the question I am now asking. I am also a little afraid that the motion will encourage us to go back to the old Haagse or Zoetermeer practices of receipt counting, while we want to focus on the outcome. I would therefore like to await the answer of the Secretary of State first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u44	It's gonna be a bit of a cheap argument. We all have the annoyance that we don't know what happens to the tuition money. I think it is very good that Mr Duisenberg is also making a very strong contribution to this. However, I am trying to get it mapped out, with one question: how many teachers have been appointed with that money? That is not a big bureaucracy at all; that is just one question. You voted against it. Now you say you want alternatives to the lumpsum. That sounds promising, but it remains a little vague. What alternatives are you thinking about in concrete terms?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u45	Once again, according to the motion that was tabled yesterday, you would have to keep books for each school, as it used to be. I don't want to send out the signal that we want to go for that. I would like to send a different signal, which I have consistently done in recent times and in which the entire OCW committee supports me. I want us to be able to establish a good link between the money we invest and the result we see in return. Especially when it comes to intensification, that is important. There are several ways to establish that connection. The motion indicates an overly narrow solution. I think there are several ways, and I'd like to hear that from the Secretary of State. I am just as curious and anxious as Mr Van Dijk to know what this 150 million has done for those 3,000 young teachers we would employ or hire new ones.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u46	Mr Duisenberg advocates money flows next to or instead of the lump sum.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u47	No, I'm not.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u48	If resources are to be made available, they are earmarked and must be spent on something. We're watching the outcome. What is the percentage of the amount a school is allowed to spend on financing the extra overhead needed for this, such as additional administrative burdens and additional accountability?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u49	Perhaps you should first explain what you mean, Mr Duisenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u50	Thank you, Mr President, for this invitation. I am not arguing for separate percentages to be included in the lump sum, especially not in advance. I call for education money to go to education. I want to see a clear link between the money we invest and the quality that comes out. I have given the example of the 1.2 billion spent annually on improving the quality of education and the quality of teachers. It is not clear what the result is. The percentage overhead isn't that interesting. I am concerned about the quality of education. In the end, educational money should simply lead to quality of education. A question about overhead I would naturally answer with "as little as possible," but I don't know if you should set standards for that. That's not what I'm here for. I just want to look at the outcome figures.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u51	In abstracto, we all agree on that. The question is, what level should we do that at? If you sell the performance of the Netherlands according to the OECD studies and PISA studies against the investment in education, is that the level at which Mr Duisenberg is satisfied with the accountability, or should it be at the level of the school's financial statements? The question is how much additional accountability will be placed in schools and to what extent the cost of overhead will increase. How much responsibility can this be, according to Mr Duisenberg?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u52	I understand the question, because that is a concern one might have. However, I would like to refer to the report prepared by the General Court of Auditors for the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. We have asked for a monitor to be devised to make a good picture of the quality of education and to make a good link with the money we invest. The report also states that the Court of Auditors has successfully tried to make as much use as possible of matters that have been committed for a long time. That information isn't being used yet. I believe that the starting point should be that the administrative burden should not be increased, but that what is already there should be used.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u53	On this basis, I wonder whether Mr Duisenberg is using the wrong terminology when he says he wants alternatives to lump sum funding. I think he means that he wants effective and not too bureaucratic monitoring. If that's the case, I like that. If we step away from the lump sum funding, we will, however, appear to me, again, that very bureaucratic dragon from the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u54	The financing of the past was indeed a bureaucratic dragon. I fully agree with you on that. The intermediate step we have taken has the disadvantage of investing money but not seeing the result. I want to look at the outcome side, the effectiveness side. My terminology can be misinterpreted. I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u55	Mr Duisenberg makes a fervent plea to change the lump sum funding or perhaps even replace it entirely with a new system. We've had some bad experiences. EUR 500 million from the autumn agreement has been transferred to the school boards without any ambition and we do not know where the money has gone. Can Mr Duisenberg imagine that a different form can also mean that we cut back on certain expenditures? I am thinking, for example, of the huge additional burden of over-statutory payments in recent years or of real estate investments. Can he say anything about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u56	The point made by Mr Rog about the super-statutory benefits appeals to me. I am thinking of the Replacement Fund and the Participation Fund. However, we have also said that we leave collective agreements to employers and employees. These cases are often in the sector. From the bottom of my heart, I understand Mr Rog's plea, but then he has to say what possibilities there are in The Hague to make it easier for the field to keep this kind of cost in check. That should be our role.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u57	I very much agree with Mr Duisenberg's role in politics. We must state here what ambitions we have for the tax money that we set aside for education. Is Mr Duisenberg prepared to limit this? I am thinking, for example, of real estate expenditure or the super-statutory payments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u58	I have already said that we must set standards for specific expenditure items in The Hague. We must say what the results must be and that we want good education. If you set standards for one category, you can also set standards for other categories. I don't think that's up to The Hague. On the contrary, we want to give schools and school boards the freedom to use them at their discretion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u59	I listened very carefully to Mr Duisenberg. I'm trying to get the exact point he wants to make. He's starting a discussion about the lumpsum. What problem is he inventing a solution for? Isn't he just trying to add a problem to it? Can he briefly explain to me why he is doing this in this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u60	I have just given three examples. If we go for a little dig, we'll find a lot more. With these three examples I would like to point out that the lumpsum method only shows that we are spending the money in The Hague. For example, an additional 1 billion per year is spent on improving the quality of teachers. That is literally what the budget says. After that, however, it is not at all clear what we want to achieve. It is also not at all clear whether anything is achieved at all. This was also noted by the Court of Auditors in 2013 following the last major intensification introduced by Minister Plasterk, namely the billion for teacher salaries in the function mix. Even then, it was found that the money was spent but the quality of education was not visibly increased. In fact, the Court of Auditors said, and the Minister did not at all consider that the quality of education should be improved. That is also what we are encountering in these educational investments. That's what you see now with the 150 million for 3,000 young teachers. We say we want to do something about it. Then it turns out that the money was spent and we don't know what the effect is. This is also apparent from the money earmarked for language and arithmetic education. There is also the big question as to where this has gone. Those are just a few examples. I want to preserve the freedom that comes with lump sum funding. However, I would like to make it clear what the results are, in view of the specific choices we make and the challenge we have, namely ensuring more ambitious, better education. I'd like to add that. You do not have that freedom, without transparency and responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u61	I think this is a clear statement. Isn't it better to look at these schools in a very focused way, too? I'm perhaps saying it a little flat to see what holes might have been poemed with money that became available? Of course, there was also a lot of overdue maintenance. One can think of what happened to the material funding. For example, think about what is happening with the equity fund. I think some of the money ended up in there to at least hold on to the teachers you have. It's nice when money comes for new teachers, but if teachers disappear under your hands in the meantime, maybe you should make sure you hold them first. I think they have tried that in the past period. I think Mr Duisenberg's discussion is justified, but we must also do justice to the schools. I would therefore like to give him just a look at what late maintenance there is, and then make the financial floor under the schools a little firmer instead of scaring them that suddenly everything is turned upside down again. After all, Mr Duisenberg also knows how serious that can be.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u62	I understand Mr Slob's speech. With this in mind, the Chamber has been working over the past few years to gain a better understanding of the other side of the Hague reality. Indeed, we have already found that in The Hague we can think that funding and funding systems are adequate, but that reality in schools is perceived quite differently. The Court has therefore asked the Court of Auditors to investigate this. A more nuanced image came out of that. I understand Mr Slob's plea.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u63	Mr Van Meenen, we have not been working for an hour and this is your fourth interruption. I deliberately did not want to limit the number of interruptions to a maximum, but it is also not intended to interrupt endlessly. So I will give you the floor, but I would also appeal to you to take care of this, otherwise we will be running out of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u64	I understand your role. I hope you understand mine too, because sometimes there are times when you can't sit on your seat.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u65	I can almost see you standing behind the interrupting microphone by default.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u66	I like standing here, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u67	I can see that. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u68	I'll be brief. The function mix was also not intended to improve the quality of education, but was really just meant to improve teachers' salaries. In other words, standing in front of the classroom had to be better rewarded. In that sense, you couldn't have had that expectation. For the rest, I fully agree with Mr Duisenberg that there should be a stronger relationship between the money that goes to schools and what it generates, expressed in terms of outcome, as we have discussed before. My question follows on from Mr Slob's. Mr Duisenberg asks the cabinet to examine whether there are alternatives and what is possible to tighten things up. My question is whether he is prepared to include in this research the development of the burden on the school side, an aspect which Mr Slob also pointed out. That is exactly what I think we saw this morning in the reaction of the PO Council. He said that not only money was added, but money went off as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u69	If we ask for that investigation, the Secretary of State will not escape to go into it. By the way, there have already been several investigations that we have all seen coming through here, but this is definitely something you should involve. The report by Mr Jasper van Dijk, Mrs Lucas and Mrs Ypma already indicates that we are generally spending more money on education. However, also specifically in primary and secondary education, funding has increased or remained stable while the number of pupils has fallen. The results of schools show that there seems to be more room for manoeuvre in schools. The VVD wants ambition and wants us to be clear about what we want to achieve and what we need to do for it. The strategy is simple. We're in A today, we want to go to B, and the strategy is the road from A to B. What would be my "B"? Let me make a start, let's be ambitious. Over the next fifteen years, the Netherlands will win five Nobel Prizes in research into major societal challenges. Of course, it is not specifically and only that aim of the Nobel Prizes. It's about what's behind it, what it does. To achieve this, world education is needed, education that does not put young people in places, such as the poorest or most likely, but sees talent in every individual, education that teaches skills that are needed in the 21st century and education that gives maximum opportunities for everyone in society and that makes work. In concrete terms, I come to three goals. We need to increase productivity. In the Netherlands, the quality of education, research and innovation must be at the top of the world. We must give everyone the opportunity to develop their talents to the fullest. So what's my strategy from A to B? Here comes my human capital agenda, in normal Dutch: an agenda with which every Dutchman can get the best out of himself. This is my agenda, the VVD agenda, but I want to do it together. Mr. Rog, I'm looking at you too. So, ladies and gentlemen, add something where you like. This human capital agenda goes along three lines. Firstly, the curriculum must be in line with tomorrow's demand. Secondly, the talent of each student or student is central. Thirdly, it is about education that makes work of work. All proposals It's a long list of items coming online soon. I am now merely presenting a selection of a few points on which I have questions for the Secretary of State and Minister. My first point is that today's curriculum must be in line with tomorrow's demand. If you start your education career now, you won't be out of school for 15 to 20 years. The expectation is that by then the robot has taken over the routine work completely from us and that knowledge is stored in our phone or perhaps even in a wearable on our head. What do you teach children to prepare them for a world that we can hardly imagine? Logical thinking, arithmetic, making yourself clear, language and digital remain the basis. However, in a world that is exponentially changing and in which all things are interwoven in several ways, self-reliance, innovation, ingenuity and collaboration will become increasingly important to keep yourself at work. That's why I'm selecting some points. The VVD wants all schools to work on their improvement culture. Their approach should be in line with initiatives such as those of the Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions. Does the Secretary of State wish to discuss with the PO Council and the VO Council the way in which they can adopt the learning force approach with all schools? The MBO Council is already doing this. I'd like to get a reaction and hear what the plan is. We are completely refreshing the content of our primary and secondary education. The opinions of the Education Committee2032 are taken into account. In addition to focusing more on ICT and technology, we want to focus on creating creative solutions, learning how to work together and entrepreneurship and empathy or bildung, whatever you want to call it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u70	I'll start with the five Nobel Prizes. Is Mr Duisenberg going to table another motion on this? I think it's very good that the VVD can already capture this in a kind of ten-year plan. I won't make any other associations. I have a question about Mr Duisenberg's elite plan, the human capital agenda. With this we go back to the elite education of the nineteenth century: if you can afford it, you can go in; if you don't have money, you have to leave. Then Mr Duisenberg said: Mr Rog, will we do that together? Where's the PvdA in this story? The VVD is in a coalition with the PvdA, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u71	These are a lot of questions. Mr. Rog was asking me, almost begging me to let me know that he wants to join, so I said that's good. But you too, Mr Van Dijk, and Mrs Jadnansing and Mrs Ypma of the PvdA can participate. This is what we want to do with each other. We're gonna make a move here. I would ask you all to add things to this. I understand that the SP would very much like to plan the Nobel Prizes centrally, but I am saying that it is not about those specific goals, but about everything that is behind them. For that, we need ambitious world-wide education, which gives every talent space. So it's not about the elite, it's about every talent.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u72	It's about every talent. That is of course a fantastic story, really 100% VVD. The problem is that I think Mr Duisenberg is going to drop groups. It starts with selection at the gate, I see in The Financial Daily. We need to have more different education. Those are the top classes with higher tuition; that's what the VVD stands for. Professors should also be able to earn more than a minister. Does this mean that Mr Duisenberg is going to say goodbye to the Top Income Standards Act, which has been adopted by his own coalition? Is he gonna make a proposal for that, too? Does the VVD say "let professors make three, four, five tons"?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u73	Mr Van Dijk refers to a number of things that are indeed in the plan. I can't go into all the subjects right now. I would like to do that in another debate, because I would be very happy to discuss it with Mr Van Dijk all day long, especially to see where we can find each other. I will answer the question about honours education with an example. I've spoken to a number of students who participated. The great thing was that the honours education, which extra education, was not specifically intended for students who reached eight, but that all pupils were invited to it. I saw the letter, too. The only condition was that your grades wouldn't go down as a result and that you wanted to commit to it. The school said it's at least two hours a week, and we're gonna escort you out of the school. What I also loved about it is that the school did not say 'we offer this or that', but that it said 'every child has a talent and can decide for himself in what area it wants to make an extra effort'. "That may be building an app, writing your own music or making a work of art; we are going to help you achieve that. The only condition is that your figures don't go down."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u74	And pinging!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u75	And no pinging, Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u76	The interruptions must be short, but so must the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u77	I think the VVD just wants a higher tuition fee for those top classes. Mr Duisenberg should be honest about that. So you're going to have a division that the Secretary of State opposes today. It's a little late, but she won't take it anymore. Mr Duisenberg has undoubtedly also read the article in Trouw. The Minister fears a wider gap between rich and poor, and it must be about raising education. We really need to fight the gap between lower and higher educated, between low-chance and high-chance. We need to look at what we can put in front of all these private schools and all that homework counseling of rich kids. Is the VVD square behind that, or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u78	I'll give you a quick answer. Twin or split, I don't believe in that at all. I just believe in every talent.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u79	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u80	The precise curriculum of education should be more clearly defined by teachers themselves, and there what is relevant, together with other stakeholders. In his response to education2032, does the Secretary of State wish to include this suggestion whereby teachers, together with other internal and external stakeholders, periodically review and re-establish the curriculum? In our plan, maker education is also known as maker education, a place in all schools in the Netherlands. In addition, the promotion of the choice of technique is maintained. I would like to congratulate the pioneers in this area: the teachers of De Populier here in The Hague, with their infectious enthusiasm and unbridled ambition. A further proposal is the possibility of taking fewer courses in secondary education if there is more deepening in another subject. Can the Secretary of State comment in response to education2032 on these suggestions that we have made together with the PvdA in the context of Together Learning? So fewer subjects, more depth and more thematic education and also the lifting or less stringent handling of profiles in order to be able to match everyone's talent to the maximum. I come to the second point: "your talent is central." In education, we must move away from the mediocrity and the development of the talents of all children. For this we need high-quality education, which challenges teachers who recognise and stimulate talent at all levels. That is why I would like to make the following points. Every child has his or her own talents. In order to make them understandable, every student will receive a digital personal development portfolio from the primary school period. In addition to the school results and acquired skills, it also gives space for your own, other extracurricular activities and talents. This is what has already been proposed by the VO Council, which I am giving all the credit for. My question to the Secretary of State is: what are the plans for this personal e-portfolio, what is its status and what is its status? Students are given the space to take courses on a different level. This is made explicit on their diploma. Mrs Ypma spoke about this extensively in the media yesterday. Students do follow their basic subjects at one and the same level. At this level, students obtain their diplomas, but further training must then make explicit what requirements students must meet in order to study with them. My question to the Secretary of State I think that Mrs Ypma will go into this in more detail if it can be included in the diploma if you take a course at a different level and what the further plans are in this area. Selection at the gate is possible in the entire secondary education, MBO, HBO and university. Massive open online courses are stimulated, for example by accrediting the modules and allowing them to be included in the regular curriculum. My question to the Minister is what it takes, or what obstacles there are to allow massive open online courses to be included in the standard curriculum.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u81	It was just one sentence: "Selection at the gate becomes possible." As if it's just a matter of course we're gonna do that. I honestly don't understand. Mr Duisenberg has just made a plea for tailor-made diplomas, for subjects at different levels to be mentioned on the diploma so that it is quite clear which follow-up training is best to follow. How does that relate to the VVD's plan for selection at the port? So what's left to select?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u82	It's about getting the most out of everyone's talent, it's about getting the right student in the right place. Selection at the gate is the key to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u83	But then the student apparently has a less good idea of what the best further education is, less good than the education. He can look at this in a day or an hour; according to Mr Duisenberg, the potential student cannot do so himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u84	No, it works both ways. First of all, we have also been working on this. I'll tell you about that later. The professional career orientation at school just needs to be improved. This still depends far too much on the individual content of schools themselves and on the commitment they want to make to them. So that information needs to be improved. On the other hand, a study can also look at, as we do now with matching activities, how you fit in with that training. If you want to apply the level of a particular education to a particular group, then you should also be able to select it, as is already happening, for example in the arts programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u85	Mr Duisenberg knows about the Klever/Mohandis motion, doesn't he? That motion was passed here. It states quite clearly that we do not agree with the introduction of additional admission requirements, except for pabo and teacher training, in order to make education accessible. We've all decided that here. How does that relate to his plea now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u86	It may well be that this motion has received a majority. It seems unlikely to me that the VVD voted in favour of this motion, because the point of selection at the gate is not something I am making up here today. That's what the VVD has been saying for years. I do not want to say: even before I was born, because that was a while ago, but that is an old position of ours. That is what we have always said, to ensure that the right student can come to the right place and that there can be more ambition in education.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u87	I would like to say quite clearly that we have voted in favour of this, because the Labour Party believes that every child deserves a fair chance. We do not believe that the selection that Mr Duisenberg is promoting would contribute to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u88	I must respect that from my coalition partner, but I would like to remind you that some ten years ago, in the Tichelaar motion of the Labour Party, a selection was called for at the gate. So apparently the Labour Party has changed its position.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u89	I hear Mr Duisenberg making a plea to allow more selection at the gate. I can imagine that this selection should then be aimed at allowing the best people to study in this way, so that they end up getting very well caught up when they enter the labour market. Now my question to Mr Duisenberg is how selection at the gate relates to the fact that the VVD reports in the media this morning that everyone can actually teach without authority. Can he explain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u90	First of all, selection at the gate is not a matter of better or worse, but of what fits better. Let me give you an example. In the article in Trouw mentioned, in which the Minister was interviewed, an education in Public Administration was cited. I know that particular training well. This training does not look at the level of the figures, but at the motivation of students and at who is most in place there. I think that's a good way to select at the gate. Then there is Mr Rog's question about the teachers. I'm not just saying you can stand in front of the class as an unauthorized person. The way I feel about that is well known. What I do find is that the model of our teacher training is from another era. I see more in a model where you train from the workplace, from the classroom.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u91	The VVD has clearly escaped the changes and improvements that have taken place in teacher training over the past period. My question to Mr Duisenberg is as follows. If we want to have the best people in our class, isn't it absolutely necessary that we have well-educated teachers, who have also been taught the teaching, and not only the course content, but also the pedagogical didactic side? Is Mr Duisenberg aware of the fact that there are already several possibilities for obtaining a minor in university studies even in six months? Then how does he come to shorten that term even further?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u92	Of course you can. It is precisely the intention that we should attract people of high quality, train them with high quality and also ensure that certain quality criteria apply, so that there are really good people in the classroom. I mention the example of the pabos, where we have introduced Dutch and arithmetic as the selection criterion. This has led to a lower inflow, but also a huge improvement in quality. On that point, Mr Rog finds me entirely on his side.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u93	In his speech, I heard Mr Duisenberg say something close to my heart. He said that education is about developing the talents of all children.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u94	Bildung, I even said.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u95	A few sentences later Mr Duisenberg comes with selection at the gate. Does he agree with me that the summing up of all kinds of selections at the gate could lead to a serious threat to the development of all children?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u96	No, I can't really see that. I still believe that access to education, to MBO, to HBO and to wo, must be guaranteed in all kinds of ways. Every child, every student must be able to find his or her place in education. Selection at the gate is therefore not at all contrary to accessibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u97	That is the point on which we are quite different. If I imagine that selection in secondary education is already taking place in a certain way, that it is going to take place in transitions from vmbo to havo selection, that it is going to take place from HBO to wo selection and that it is going to ask for higher final figures, then the sum is simply that we are going to exclude a lot of children and young people from the education system. Can't be any different from that conclusion, can it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u98	That's not my endgame. I want to make sure the student gets in the right place. On the education side, I want ambitious institutions of the highest level. Selection at the gate is the answer for both objectives. An investigation has also been carried out which Mr Grashoff will address. The same types of groups were investigated. When selecting on motivation and ambition, one group not only scored much better in terms of study, but also in terms of study success. So it is also really an answer to an aspect like failure. The drop-out of students after the first year and later is dramatic. This applies particularly to groups for which you are committed. I'd like to ask you to look at it openly, from that point of view. From me comes the commitment that I, too, consider the accessibility of education to be crucial.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u99	I would like to touch on the interruption of Mr Rog just now. It was about the best people, teachers, for the class. My question to Mr Duisenberg is: what makes a teacher a good teacher? Mr Rog mentioned: expertise, didactic skills and pedagogical competence. Which of these three elements, in his opinion, prevails?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u100	Is there another box d: all the answers above? That would be nice. It's all important. Of course, it will also depend on the type of class a teacher stands for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u101	I read in the news about the revision of teacher training and the redesigning of it; graduates should be able to stand equally in front of the classroom. Then Mr Duisenberg gives the primacy to the expertise rather than teaching skills and didactic skills. Is Mr Duisenberg not very concerned about the fact that those students who are fresh from the academy, at whatever level, and who are not sufficiently trained in teaching and teaching, who are home in six months with a burn-out, are overwhelmed and are never available for education?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u102	I note, and I had gotten to that in my text, that we need more teachers in the coming period. There will be a large outflow because many teachers reach retirement age. There should also be more teachers in certain specific subjects. There is also a need for higher quality teachers. At teachers and schools, but also at students, there is much more need for inspiring courses. In conversations I have had over the past year, I have found that students and schools need more inspiring ways to train teachers. I therefore ask the question that Mrs Ypma also put in that article at NU.nl, namely whether we can reverse the paradigm. Right now we're saying we have an education and then you go to the school. Can we turn it around? Can there be training from the workplace?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u103	I suggest that you continue with your speech, Mr Duisenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u104	In fact, I have already put my question to the Minister, but I would like to ask him a few more questions. The minister is currently on a tour with the teacher training courses, or she is going to do such a tour. Can she then take this other paradigm and that other view into account in her plans? So I am referring to a situation in which teachers are trained in and out of schools. How would that work? I will come to another point. I'm picking one out. Each year, all teachers should be given an interview in which results and improvement points are discussed. This is far from happening everywhere at the moment. I believe that this should be included in the budget as an ambition. The Secretary of State said earlier that this was going to happen. What is the current state of affairs in this area? What ambition does the Minister intend to commit to this? My third point is education and research that make work. Education should not only be fun and challenging, but it should also prepare you for the labour market. In the long term, work and learning are alternated throughout your life. Or both things take place side by side. Our science is also connected to society. From science, there is a lifeline to finding solutions to major societal challenges, to innovation and to prosperity. I'll select some points. Career orientation is given a stronger position in education, especially in basic education. Because knowing where you're going will help you discover your talents. Too often, the implementation of career orientation depends on the good will of teachers, deans, parents and business stakeholders. With each other, we can take this course to a higher level. I ask the Secretary of State if we can give career orientation and vocational guidance a more prominent role, particularly in VMBO, and also across the board in all aspects of the foundational education. The study leaflet is already mandatory in the HBO and the wo. As far as I know, he's "some kind of" required in MBO. I'm not sure what's going on. That is why I ask the Minister. The study leaflet now works in HBO and wo and seems to be a great success there. What are the plans for this leaflet in the MBO? I'm on the side of the labour market. It also has to do with education that makes work of work. As far as we are concerned, the application requirement for the WW is extended to an application or retraining obligation. The abolition of the sectoral funds could lead to the creation of a single national training fund. This also makes it possible to retrain to another sector throughout your career. In such a different sector, other people's talents can be addressed and they can have more opportunities for a job. Can directors, in the interests of lifelong learning, engage in discussions with their colleague from Social Affairs and Employment in order to tackle these issues? I am therefore referring to the obligation to apply for and retrain and to the one training fund rather than all the separate sectoral funds with divisions between them. The allocation of science money should be more in line with societal challenges and with the European Horizon 2020 programme. A combination of fundamental research and research that is relevant to societal challenges can count on long-term funding for the VVD, for example for a minimum of ten years. In this way, top scientists in the Netherlands know what they can count on. These forms of research must be given priority. I'm rounding up. The students who participated in the WorldSkills in Brazil and the Solar Challenge in Australia had a goal. Maybe they weren't believed at first. It was said, "You can't do that; just act normal, man," but they went for it. They worked together, they were creative, they went on and they won. Let's be ambitious. Let us set concrete, clear targets. Let us dare to make sharp choices. We have a strong exit position to build further. Let's develop the curriculum for tomorrow today. The talent of each individual must be central. There must be maximum room for self-direction and proper connection and cooperation with the labour market. For tomorrow's society, we need to focus today on maximum opportunities for everyone. The VVD is today launching a human capital agenda, which I would like to offer the Minister and the Secretary of State. I'm not doing that on paper. I'm sending them the link. If it's okay, he's in the app timeline with them now. I am not asking the Chamber to take this agenda in its entirety here today, although that would, of course, be very sensible. I understand, moreover, that the Secretary of State has just received the link.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u105	And where did your colleagues get such a link?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u106	He's coming. I ask colleagues to add matters to this first step towards an agenda and to take up the glove. I ask the directors to set out objectives to give present and future generations the chance to develop as much as possible, to put future plans at the service of this goal and to make it concrete when this is achieved. At most, the new is going to be normal. And those Nobel Prizes, they will come of their own accord, as I say to Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u107	The spokesperson of the VVD has been speaking for half an hour about excellence, ambition and talent development. He has said that education is the basis for our freedom and prosperity. Then you would think that you should start as early as possible, at the lowest possible age, in primary education, for example. The terms used by Mr Duisenberg are becoming a bit hollow when we see that the appropriate education, the parade horse of the Secretary of State of the VVD, is in danger of completely failing. Education for the gifted is being cut off. Special schools with small classes and specific guidance for very smart students are being reduced. What will the VVD do for these students?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u108	Mrs Siderius knows that my colleague Karin Straus, who is usually a spokesperson on this subject, is committed like no other to appropriate education. Appropriate education is exactly what it's all about when you say you want to give children a right place. Then you don't want to put them in a separate booth, you want to give everyone the chance to expand to the maximum.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u109	Of course, that's very easy. Indeed, Mrs Straus often talks about gifted people, but in the meantime special teaching methods and special departments for gifted children or children with autistic disorder are simply being cut off in schools. This is all due to the introduction of appropriate education. What is the VVD going to do in concrete terms? Is she going to invest in it or does she say: talent development and ambition, that's all nice, but we don't do that if you're gifted or have autism or any other limitation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u110	I can only repeat that the commitment to appropriate education was right and is to ensure that every talent comes to its own. That is also what Mrs Straus has been working on. I do understand: the SP likes to focus on things that go wrong. I really like to focus on things that go well. I then use it as an example to look at things where things are not going well yet, to see what can be done better. The SP cites all kinds of examples in its text, but there are just as many examples of places where things are going very well. In Kennemerland and in Helmond and surroundings, the appropriate education is perfect. It is now a question of getting things worked out, making good agreements and putting them into practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u111	I'm going to open that link, of course. It's a nice idea, by the way. It's a human capital agenda. I am afraid that there is no capital agenda and that it is still a bit the old song of the VVD of many words while she wants to be on the first grade for a dime. Mr Duisenberg has spoken excellently about what science should focus on. Is that, as far as he is concerned, also saying goodbye to top sector policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u112	A brief answer, Mr Duisenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u113	I can only say that this is an excellent question. As a VVD and a liberal, I do not believe that you can determine from The Hague where the lines for the future lie. Today, too, I say that I believe that we have always believed in the development of the individual and the individual talent. That's gonna lead to nice things. I am not going to say here today as a VVDer that we are saying goodbye to the top sectors policy. That focus has certainly brought a lot. This is also apparent from all the analyses that have been made. The policy has led to better cooperation between industry and the public authorities and is therefore paying off. But in the basics, when Mr Van Meenen addresses me as a liberal, I believe it has to come from all those individual talents.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u114	Of course, I address Mr Duisenberg as a liberal. I will not ask again, but may I interpret it in such a way that it is too early to say in the Chamber as a VVDer that the VVD is going to say goodbye to the top sectors policy, but if we ask again in a month's time, the answer is actually yes?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u115	That is the conclusion of Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u116	In Mr Duisenberg's speech, I think that, following an interruption by Mr Van Dijk, it was about division. Mr Duisenberg said that I do not see a division in education. That surprised me, also in the light of his comments on the development of all children's talents. As a result of my interruption just now, he tried to explain to me once again that even selection at the gate would contribute to countering social segregation. Surely it is not possible for Mr Duisenberg to close his eyes to the phenomenon of social segregation in education, which in any case occurs and which we should try to keep to a minimum.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u117	I totally agree with that. In the end, it's about someone's future, not his origins. Education needs to be improved. We must ensure that education brings every talent to its own. This is also what these measures are for, including, for example, the skills of teachers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u118	Every research may be flawed, but a major international research has been done by Michigan State University to 33 OECD countries. In that research, based on figures from 2012, the Netherlands and Korea are lonely at the top of countries in which the education system would contribute to social segregation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u119	I don't know that investigation. We are very good at something else, where we are also lonely at the top: we ensure that everyone in the Netherlands is taught at a high level. By the way, we are rather lonely not at the top in our concern to do well with the excellent group. However, our education is on average of a hugely high level for all students in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u120	I am impressed by Mr Duisenberg's passion and critical spirit. I still have a question for him to check whether he applies it also to matters for which he is partly responsible. I refer to the student loan system or the student debt system. What name will we give it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u121	The study advance?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u122	Yes, that's the name you finally came up with in Mr. Klaver's backyard.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u123	No, he was still remodeling; it was at my house.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u124	This is good for the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u125	Whatever. Sometimes those are the details that matter. Does Mr Duisenberg now have any idea where these promised additional investments have ended up in higher education? That money will be taken away from the students and additional investments in quality would be made.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u126	No, I didn't. That question is justified and I have the same question. That money's not here yet. It is pre-financed in the first few years, but the large increase of money starts in 2018. I have made a plea for additional investments in, for example, the quality of teachers. I believe that we should do the same for these investments from the study advance. We cannot carry out such a major reform and then spend that money on something without us preparing, not only in The Hague but also in all the institutions, a clear answer in advance to where we want to improve the quality of education and how we can account for it transparently. I want to know this too, and I have the same interest as Mr Slob.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u127	The money is not yet available, but agreements have been made with the institutions that prefinance it from the reserves. It really has to be extra investment. Does Mr Duisenberg share my view that participation, the student organisations, should also be involved in the choices that are being made? If he shares that view, I should not ask another question, should it really be our conclusion that we should ask the Minister if she can clarify this budget debate? Surely we cannot move this forward to the moment when budgetary treatment is finished and we have talked about higher education? That should be clear by now, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u128	That's two questions in one. The answer to the first question is yes. I believe that students are involved in this. That must be done very well, because there must be more support for the quality agreements that will be made. This applies not only to students, but also to other stakeholders. Besides the students and teachers there are many stakeholders outside the institution. I am thinking of regional business and regional government. I think you should try to get broad support for those quality agreements. The question to the minister for clarity can be put by Mr Slob in his own contribution, but I will pass it on to her now. I do not share this entirely with Mr Slob, because the Minister has just indicated in the strategic agenda her preferred categories of spending. It is clear in this respect that, in particular, the institutions must identify priorities in these quality agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u129	Mr Grashoff spoke just now about a recent international study which states that the Dutch education system encourages differences. I understand Mr Duisenberg's reaction to that remark. Every child should have the potential to develop. However, I would like to go into more detail about what he thinks about the fact that research shows that our system in which everyone should develop is precisely what we are in agreement with each other on segregation. I would like to go into that in more detail and I would like to get a response from the VVD on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u130	In my opinion, our educational system is uniquely capable of bringing all students to a very high level on average. This also applies to students who cannot come. I quote the words often used by the Secretary of State: 'We are world champions'. I would like to start by saying that we are world champions in that. I think we should be proud of that. At the same time, we have divided our system into boxes, and I think that is what Mr Kuzu is referring to. That has its advantages, because you can move from one level to another. However, that flow is difficult and it means that you are placed in a booth. That is why I support Mrs Ypma's plea, for example, that you should be able to take courses and obtain diplomas at different levels. It needs to be more fluid, it needs to fit more with each individual talent.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u131	If I understand Mr Duisenberg's speech correctly, he wants to get rid of box thinking and make a smoother transition. I assume that the VVD is therefore prepared to support proposals aimed at getting out of that box mind. May I conclude?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u132	In the end, it's about every child being able to develop their talents to the maximum. If one thing characterizes our educational landscape, it's that we've locked everything down with rules and boxes. I thought there were a lot of rules and boxes in my neighborhood until I got into education. Then I thought, "It could be ten times worse." So as a VVD player, I can certainly support this tone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u133	Mr. Van Dijk? You don't have to, but I see you have something to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u134	Mr President, I am always short, as you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u135	Yeah, that's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u136	We can move on quickly to the next speaker, but I would like to say the following. The plea to go back to the elite education of the nineteenth century let me give you a moment to see if there is a majority in favour of it. I have a little question. I mentioned them in my term, but I had hoped that Mr Duisenberg himself would come back to them: the dance training courses, the DAMU courses. Mr Duisenberg said downstairs in the State Passage: we are going to arrange travel expenses for those highly talented students. I've seen Chamber questions. That's great. But that's a little easy. We've really been a few months. Mr Duisenberg, will we make a fine motion together today in which we will settle this small point with which we make some students and teachers very happy?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u137	That can be very short, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u138	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I await the answer of those questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u139	That's what I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u140	But, Mr. Chairman, promise makes guilt. Mr Duisenberg also said it on television. The whole of the Netherlands has been able to see it. He was gonna take care of it, and what's he doing? He comes with questions to the House: what are the possibilities, can we look at something? He's got to live up to his words, too. He can act on this budget this week. What's keeping him?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u141	I asked the questions. Mr Van Dijk knows better than anyone that you can commit yourself to business and that you can go for something. He knows me. I can do that, and I did it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u142	I shall suspend the sitting two minutes before Mr Rog has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u143	Mr. Chairman. Our education is as good as the teacher in the classroom. Our children deserve to be taught by well-educated, professional teachers who have authority. And these teachers deserve government trust. The initiative law adopted by the House of Representatives of Bishop, Van Meenen and Rog helps restore that confidence. Schools must continue to meet the legal requirements, but no longer have to jump through the hoop of inspection and reflect critically on their own ambitions, as laid down in the school plan. With confidence in the schools, there will also be a great responsibility for a wide-ranging education and for a rich curriculum, in which schools can differ from one another. The CDA cherishes that pluralism. It is therefore very concerned about the advice of Paul Schnabel of the Platform on Education2032. His report seems to assume that young children should be prepared as soon as possible to be of economic benefit. That report can easily be used to mess with new obligations and didactic news scams into school class. Many proposals raise the question of whether they are good for children and whether they can count on the support of teachers and school leaders. We already got a taste from the Secretary of State himself. He believes that children should learn English and computer science from group 1, whereas development psychologists and kindergarten teachers say that you should not start formal learning in groups 1 or 2. Parents in the National School Research of the Algemeen Dagblad also believe that their children should learn Dutch well before they are offered a foreign language. The same research shows that parents are very concerned about the lack of social involvement and the lack of good practices at school. The vast majority want the social internship back and want a compulsory course in elementary school. The CDA sees the teaching of good manners primarily as an assignment to families, but it strongly shares the call for greater attention to wide-ranging education and the restoration of the authority of teachers and parental involvement. The CDA believes that more involvement of parents, for example as a volunteer at school, can positively influence the school environment. That is why, in our own-initiative paper entitled 'In the case of voluntary inter-school care', we are calling for concrete measures to make this more attractive. We are therefore looking forward with interest to the reaction of the cabinet. Every time it turns out to be a job to find out exactly where the ever-increasing flow of money to education remains. The Secretary of State claimed two years ago that an investment of hundreds of millions of euros would bring up to 3,000 young teachers to work. Two years later, he was exposed by the General Education Association and the Association Beter Onderwijs Nederland. There appear to be fewer teachers working in education for more money. According to the PO Council, one of the culprits is the increase in unemployment costs by 155 million in five years. Can the Secretary of State indicate how much education money is spent in total on the top-statutory part of unemployment costs? Can he calculate how many extra teachers of that money could be hired? Now the homeowners. There are 16,000 children who are entitled to education, but are forced home. How does the Secretary of State look at the request of parents of homeowners to set up an education fund to give children who do not go to school or who are registered there a chance of alternative education? 50,000 children remain in the Netherlands every year. That means we're gonna stay the frontrunner of the world. Three and a half years ago, CNV Education came up with a plan to experiment with summer schools to prevent sitting down. This has been experimented with over the past three years and an increasing number of schools with an increasing number of participants participates. It appears that 85% of the participants are still moving on. This is good news for the students, for the teachers and for the learning environment in the classroom. The CDA therefore wants to broaden and intensify the measures against sitting. This can be done if the Secretary of State is prepared not only to "reward" schools with an additional year's funding for those who remain in office, but also to reward them if they are able to avoid sitting down thanks to additional efforts. This is possible by adding the savings value of pupils who do not remain seated, in consultation with employers and employees, to the funding. This should be done on the condition that resources are actually used for educational purposes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u144	I am very interested in Mr Rog's proposal. As he knows, the VVD is also a strong supporter of the experiment with the summer schools, which seems to be going very well. Mr Rog has asked a number of technical questions about the method of financing. In Mr Rog's view, what would that mean for the way in which the current summer schools operate? What kind of vision does he have?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u145	I see that as follows. For a school where 10% of students remain, the full funding for all students is currently continuing, including in the following school year. If only 1% of pupils were to remain behind due to additional efforts during the school year, 9% would pass. On the basis of the zero situation, we can see how much money is saved, if fewer children stay behind due to the extra effort. Then we need to reduce that money in education to ultimately deliver more customisation and avoid unnecessary sitting. So I do not want to punish children who remain seated, because in some cases it can be a good solution. I want to go to a reward for schools that make an extra effort. At present, this is only a limited subsidy. In my ideal image, it would be that part of the money we are spending now is spent on staying in order to prevent it. Unfortunately, the MBO sector has been a lot negative in the news in recent years. We saw absurd, megalomaniac real estate projects, colossal institutions where the human size was missing and directors who were more attentive to real estate and derivatives than they had a heart for education and students. The CDA is therefore very afraid of the Minister's plans for further scaling up and even larger administrative units in secondary vocational education. The CDA opts for a future of MBO schools with a strong own profile, which are small-scale and involved with their students. Good vocational education leads to a job in professional practice. This is why the CDA wants a strong involvement of regional business in vocational education. In addition to involvement in the curriculum and the provision of placements by industry, the CDA advocates greater involvement of the school with regional employers. This can be done, for example, through the introduction of an internship grant for lecturers, so that there is more knowledge about professional practice in the classroom. Does the Minister see the possibility of further encouraging such a practical placement, for example by using part of the teacher's scholarship for MBO teachers, provided that they also receive a contribution from the regional business community? Moreover, we see a large difference in educational facilities and their tax treatment between different age groups. I have previously advocated a wider opening-up of lifelong learning credit, so that workers over 55 years of age can also benefit from it. However, there is also a difference between workers under the age of 30 and workers over the age of 30, for example as regards loan facilities. Can the Minister explain why the cabinet maintains these differences? Does she think this is desirable? The rocks are playing for the failure of ROC Leiden. In addition, the financing of the public health card for MBO students is covered by the funding of those RCs. Can the Minister confirm that these developments could lead to a cut-off of up to 5% of their budget for individual MBO institutions? Does it recognise that it is becoming much more difficult for MBO institutions to budget properly as fixed funding is increasingly converted to variable funding? Then I come to green education. Last year, the Prime Minister claimed that roc's and aoc's would have an equivalent position. Despite all the good promises we have to note that the cabinet is making structural fools and spending EUR 28 million less on the basic cost of green education. I would like to hear a response from this Minister to the government's failure to honour this promise. What is the argument for treating these types of education unequally? I'm gonna go to college. The abolition of the basic grant is an appalling measure. We already knew. Many studies described the terrible consequences, especially for vulnerable young people. The Minister has beaten the many warnings, just like D66 and GroenLinks. Unfortunately, we're seeing it happen now. The fear of the CDA has become reality. In the first year of this loan system, 6.6% fewer young people were enrolled in higher vocational education. This is a very serious matter. It seems that it is going to be okay in wo, scientific education, but with this type of education, higher vocational education, which is so necessary for the upliftment, something that the Minister confesses with his mouth is going to suffer the heavy blows. There are over 7,000 students less. Various studies, which were therefore structurally ignored, showed that first-generation students, students with lower-income parents and MBOs would refrain from studying in higher education. Is a decline of 6,000 to 7,000 students not a reason to revise this loan system? Is the Minister prepared to reverse any other negative consequences? I am thinking, for example, of students who, on 1 September, are not yet 18 and who do not yet receive an I.V. card or supplementary scholarship. These students are now extremely badly damaged. The same applies to students taking a multi-annual master's degree, such as the medical students we spoke to yesterday or students at technical universities. They simply do not have the time to work alongside their studies and also need to borrow another one or two years. They're building a huge debt. Is the Minister prepared to accommodate these multi-annual Master's students and to grant an additional grant or grant during the extra years of the Master's period? I'm gonna skip a little bit in my contribution and get to my last three points. I shall begin with the topicality of the large flow of refugees to our country. It also affects education. Municipalities and school boards are doing their utmost to offer refugee children a place in school. Does the Secretary of State consider that one year of education for newcomers is sufficient? If a school prepares for 120 refugees on the basis of COA commitments and only 40 of them arrive, the cost of all these preparations will be on the school's plate. Does the Secretary of State think that's custom-made? Last year, the CDA already called for attention to be paid to the funding of schools for children entering after 1 October. The CDA calls for fair funding, with a fixed base and real funding in proportion to the number of months these children stay in school.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u146	I must interrupt you for a moment, because it is very noisy in the Chamber. That is very annoying for the speakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u147	That's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u148	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u149	What a rest, Mr. Chairman. Delicious! Does this fit in with the Secretary of State's customized solutions? Do they also mean that the number of actual months a refugee child attends school is paid in proportion? There are also Dutch people who are temporarily staying abroad and who would like to retain the connection with our language and culture because most of them will return later. For them there is Dutch education abroad. The CDA calls for the retention of apprenticeship funding. I would like to hear from the rulers whether they are prepared to do so. If necessary, I shall then table a motion on this matter. Unfortunately, the cabinet does not seem to feel responsible for the previously formulated policy on the distribution of employment. I addressed the Minister in a series of written questions about the undesirableness of the proposed move of the Foundation for Leerplan Development from Enschede to Utrecht. That is going to cost a lot of money and it means the loss of a lot of jobs in a shrinking region. Is the Minister still willing to maintain the Foundation's Learning Plan Development in Enschede and avoid costly unnecessary relocations? I'd like to get a response to this and otherwise I'll file a motion for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u150	Mr. Chairman. From my own experience, I can say that the life of a mother or a father is sometimes quite busy. Sometimes you have to wring in all sorts of corners to take the kids away in the morning, one to school, the other to day care. Then, in connection with our prehistoric school hours, you have to pick up the kids from school at noon to get something to eat. Then you take them back to school and after school you take them to day care or to the bso. What to do with Wednesday afternoon and all those long school holidays? Are you taking the kids to the bso or to the shelter or are we taking home a babysitter? Meanwhile, we saddle the school with all kinds of wishes. Children who now go to school will join the labour market around 2035. They need to be able to deal with technology, with change, they need to be social, entrepreneurial and creative. They have to be able to learn all the time. In order to make it easier for parents and to teach the children all the things they benefit from later, we should combine education and care much more. You then have one location and one team, and education during the class and sports and game at the shelter are aligned. Such initiatives have already arisen in many places in the Netherlands. By learning and playing more in each other, we give the children the best start and parents can go to work with peace of mind. They can both live a little relaxed. That sounds delicious to me as a mother. In many places there are already initiatives, such as the extended school day, the Starring School and also integral children's centers. This brings together the school, extracurricular care and childcare for young children, leading to additional benefits. Ten years ago, there was the Van Aartsen/Bos motion, in which it was stated that every school had to provide pre- or post-school care. That motion triggered a revolution at the time. Now it's time for the next revolution. The school and the bso should go together. In many places this is already happening, and the teacher from Group 1 can already watch the childcare, so that the hard transition from child care to school can be smoother, softer and more gradual. I think it is a nice and interesting initiative, but the point is that such initiatives run into legal barriers. Are teachers and educational care workers allowed to work in one organisation and, if so, what rules do they fall under? Education or shelter? What inspection regime are they subject to? GD or educational inspection? What rules of procedure and what collective agreement are they covered by? I ask the cabinet to come forward within six months with a legislative proposal to remove all legal obstacles so that nothing stands in the way of these child centres anymore, by defining the child centres in the Primary Education Act. In no later than five years, there should be at least one school in each district where education and care are integrated and where it is normal that children can go to school at least three days a week from morning to evening. In at least ten years, but rather much sooner, that should be normal everywhere. Much remains to be done in the coming years. Now the budgets for education and reception are still separate. Only parents who both work will receive a supplement, but if we want it to be normal for all children, we want it to be, because we want to get rid of delays as early as possible as all children deserve the best opportunities, then we will have to organize this differently. This is something for the election programmes, but I would think it wise if we were to support this type of initiative over the next two years with a small experimental budget that we could use to cover the costs for children whose parents do not receive a supplement and that we could also use it to facilitate knowledge exchange and research. Does the cabinet agree with us and, if so, is it prepared to come up with such an experimental budget? Not every child with 12 years of age already knows what he or she wants to become or what training is needed. Yet we ask them to do so. We put a school type on every child in grade 8 of elementary school; you're a VMBO professional child and you're a HAVO child. This label gets kids off more and more difficult when it turns out they can handle a higher level. So their level for the rest of their lives is determined early. Education is the engine of emancipation and upliftment. Therefore, the selection moment should be postponed and the way to a higher level made easier to avoid later thinking of "I wish" or "If only there was someone who..." Teachers and school leaders should therefore not be tempted to refrain from mixed school advice, such as havo or vwo. They have a legal right to give mixed advice so that children have a longer chance to show which level suits them best. Schools that postpone the selection time to 14 or even 16 years are very positive about this. There are already schools where sitting does not exist, where learning is seen as a continuous process without hurdles between the learning years. From the first to the fourth grade, students from vmbo to atheneum then sit together in one class, with the same teachers. They follow their courses at the level that the primary school gave as advice. However, if, over time, it appears that they are better or worse in certain subjects, they may follow them at a higher or lower level. This offers huge opportunities for children and reduces social differences. Passing through the education system is a very big asset. It ensures that children can eventually get a diploma at the level they can handle. That's upliftment. Unfortunately, stacking is becoming increasingly difficult, according to the research of the Education Council. As far as we are concerned, children should be given every year the opportunity to continue flowing, for example from 2 vmbo to 2 havo, or from 3 havo to 3 vwo. In addition, children should be able to follow courses they are very good at at a higher level so that they can further develop their mathematics talent or language skills and take a higher level exam, with a tailor-made degree. We have the central exam to maintain equality, but why shouldn't you be able to take the central exam at different levels? Children will really get the chance to show what they can do, including the late bloomers. For example, we offer every child the opportunity to discover and develop his talent, including children who only at the age of 14 or 16 show that there is more in them. More customization is good for children. It'll ease the flow. Students will sit down less often; that is good for them, but it also puts less pressure on schools, because they know that the inspection will charge them for the number of sitters. Staying here is expensive. Mr Rog has just spoken about this. In the Netherlands, almost half of the students stay once. According to a very recent CPB research report, this costs the Treasury EUR 500 million annually; these are direct costs. Kids stay at tithes of points. That was also the case with Tim, who I spoke to. For most subjects he was well enough, but now he has to do everything again, with all the disadvantages of doing lessons that are already known, losing friends, feeling failed, being bullied more often. Teachers therefore argue for more tailor-made work, for example by offering pupils the opportunity to take an earlier exam in some subjects, so that they will then have more time to spend on other subjects. From The Hague, we must stimulate all these things and give them space, so that children can continue to climb in education, so that we can offer them all the opportunities that fit their talent, rather than their origins or limitations. Does the Cabinet agree with us? Is it willing to look at ways to postpone the selection time, improve the annual flow and enable the tailor-made diploma for children from the coming school year?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u151	It's not my habit to look very much at the past when a good story is being kept, but we are dealing with a government party. The Minister is of the same party and the Secretary of State of the coalition party. We are dealing with trends that have been in existence for years and are moving forward, in the direction of former selection and more obstacles in education. Hasn't the cabinet missed an incredible opportunity here and isn't it going to work on this until it's too late, grab him a year and a half before the planned elections?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u152	I think the odds are taken, but it can be done in a higher gear. That's what I'm arguing for today. There are many ways in which schools can postpone the selection moment. I see they're capable of doing that. I would like all these ways to be collected and disseminated so that this is made possible. Our job is to remove legal obstacles, where they exist. For example, I spoke to a school leader who indicated that our children can take a course at a higher level, but they are not rewarded for it, because they do not get a customized diploma. I hope that we stand side by side to make this kind of thing possible and to increase the opportunities for children.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u153	That's fine, you'll find me by your side. In fact, in my own contribution in the first period, I will deal quite extensively with the same issues. But it is trends that have been going on for years. At the moment, there are trends in exactly the opposite direction. That's not from today or yesterday either. Less multiple advice from primary education, even earlier selection, and now please based on a test in grade seven. These are things that we could have blocked a long time ago, and in particular you could have blocked a long time ago. I thought we could've gotten the cabinet on a different course a lot earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u154	Mr Grashoff was not yet in the Chamber when I myself amended the Final Test Act, precisely to give children more opportunities and opportunities. Children should not be selected on the photo, on the snapshot of the cito test, but the teacher or the master should be able to look at eight years of primary school and therefore offer children opportunities to do more. Mr Grashoff may not have experienced that I was in favour of double opinions. In fact, I have indicated that schools must be paid if they do not comply with the law as we have intended. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. I think that's what we're doing. We have been working on this for many years and we still have to get on with it. Then let's move in together! I will continue my speech. Our children go to school to understand something about the world, but what the future brings us is still unknown. The big question is therefore how to organise education in such a way that children's talents flourish, increase opportunities and better match the constantly changing environment. How can the teacher and teacher training contribute to this? Teachers' differentiation skills are still very low. We're not even close to achieving the ambition. There must be a serious improvement in this. That is why we would like to see, for example, the action plan LeerKracht van Nederland, which is a very nice addition, rolled out all over the Netherlands, so that teachers can help each other and improve each other. By discussing how to deal with differences in the classroom, by preparing, evaluating and occasionally visiting each other's classes together, the improvement comes from the bottom instead of from above, i.e. from the Empire or through inspection supervision. This is how we work on the professional pride of teachers, on improvement. More and better teachers are needed to make appropriate education a success and to provide good opportunities for all children. There should also be more opportunities for customised education, sometimes at a distance, for the many homeowners. Parents must now finally have the right to vote on the part of the development plan. But in the field of differentiation skills, a trend break really needs to be realised. Insufficient progress has been made on the 1.2 billion means of professionalisation. Mr Duisenberg has already spoken about this. How's that gonna work out for dealing with difference in class? Teachers must also learn for a lifetime. Teacher training should have started yesterday. Teaching resources could also be used to deal with differences in the classroom. I call it ICT. It's so beautiful when I see my kids working with a tablet in the classroom. The teacher sees on the screen the names of all the children among themselves. The challenges are side by side, so that she can see exactly what a child is good at and where she has to offer extra guidance. Besides, she doesn't have to look at so much. I've also been standing in front of the classroom and checking wasn't really the highlight of my teacher's existence. These times teachers prefer to spend on children and preparing their lessons. They also want to spend this time sitting together in the back of the classroom and giving feedback. That is why their profession is so fun: seeing the talent of every child, giving beautiful lessons and getting a little better every day in their profession. What can the cabinet do in this? Finally, the success of appropriate education requires two more things. Firstly, the inspection should reward schools that offer children an opportunity, even if their Cito score goes down as a result. It's a little bomb under the appropriate education that schools have to pass through the Cito score before the inspection starts talking about the quality of education. Is it not better for the cabinet to reverse that order or to judge children with the development perspective differently, so that there is a positive incentive if schools offer children the opportunity to attend school with them? Secondly, I refer to governance. He's not okay. School boards that compete with each other, they control themselves. There should be a director-director with a large mandate and power of perseverance, and an independent supervisory board, in order to find solutions from the best of children, so that children do not get in trouble and also get opportunities for homeowners. Does the Cabinet agree with us?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u155	The Labour Party is short on the appropriate education. If I understand Mrs Ypma correctly, the Labour Party does not seem to think that is a success either. She says that it must be a success and that we must adapt the governance structure and start rewarding schools. In the General Political Reviews this year, the Labour Party found something quite different. Then the Labour Party said that we should invest in appropriate education and that we should simply pay for it. Mrs Ypma's party, together with Mr Pechtold of D66, tabled a motion for an additional 100 million for appropriate education. But what does it turn out to be? The Labour Party simply withdraws its signature. Are all the problems in the appropriate education now resolved or was this just as beautiful decoration for the stage making and then retreating?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u156	Appropriate education is intended to provide a suitable place for each child. That certainly didn't fail, but there could be a lot better. I have just made a number of proposals to that effect. You are right, unfortunately, that 100 million did not succeed, because there was no proper coverage, just as I sometimes find the proposals you come up with very sympathetic but the coverage is not sound. I'm afraid that's necessary. As far as the PvdA is concerned, we want to look positively at any proposal that comes forward, but with proper coverage.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u157	Mrs Siderius, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u158	That is special, because Mr Samsom, your party leader, first signed it, so apparently Mr Samsom thought the cover was sound at first, he thought for two weeks and then perhaps he thought "oh, maybe that cover is not right after all," and he just left Mr Pechtold here alone. That's impossible, isn't it? If you really think that this 100 million should be invested in appropriate education, then I would like to know what proper coverage would be for the Labour Party, so that we can go for that together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u159	If we had found it, I would have submitted it with Mr Van Meenen a long time ago, to be quite honest. Our hearts go out to that appropriate education. We sincerely believe that every child should be given an appropriate place in education, but then you must also find the budget for it. The cabinet was very clear in its response to the motion that was dissuaded. When a motion is denied, it's often not for nothing. That had to do with the cover. Unfortunately, sometimes there are consequences to that. We regret that. We will continue to look for ways of improving appropriate education and increasing its resources.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u160	I shall then give the floor to Mrs Jadnansing, also on behalf of the PvdA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u161	Mr. Chairman. "We live in confusing times where the worlds of life are in danger of getting further and further apart." That's how I started my speech last year. It seems that the contradictions have not diminished. This calls for a no-nonsense approach whereby young people in vocational education are taught skills in addition to the right skills, both practical and cognitive and social skills. The Labour Party wants vocational education to lead to personal responsibility and entrepreneurialism, both in social and economic terms. Education that gives young people a suitcase, a suitcase with education and empowerment. This is vocational education that is in active dialogue with business, where teachers are internships in the company and where the people from the company are internships in the school. Internships, you've heard it again. I've talked about it a lot in the past few years. It can do so much better. I cannot emphasise enough the importance of sufficient training places of good quality. For vocational education and training in particular, an internship is of great importance, because without an internship there is no diploma. Internships provide young people with access to the labour market. They learn much more than at school what discipline means, what it means to come every day on time. Look, if you miss classes at school, you're mostly self-involved, but in a work situation, you're dealing with co-workers. The internship is the bridge that young people have to cross from learning to working life, but unfortunately there are thousands of young people in this country for whom that bridge does not exist. Last Monday, everyone on television was able to see how Yahya was rejected 222 times. 222 times! Was it because of his name or was there more to it? The College of Human Rights recently ruled in two cases, according to which young people were discriminated against in their job application or internship because of their origin. Discrimination is indigestible and unacceptable, but it also happens that there are simply too few traineeships available, simply because there are not enough apprenticeships or because schools have not managed their affairs sufficiently. We see the terrible consequences of this. Students should then simply drop out, because they cannot get an internship and therefore cannot complete their training, or, as in the case of Yahya, could not even start. 222 rejections! Of course, young people also have to do their own best to get an internship and if they throw a hat at it, they are rightly denied a diploma. But it is not possible for students who do their best, who do have skills, to go home without a diploma and become unemployed. Does the Minister agree with me that an institution offering vocational training is therefore responsible for ensuring that the children can actually complete the training there? Does the Minister recognise that this final responsibility is not being fulfilled at the moment? The Labour Party believes that there should be a final approach to placements. Young people of good will should no longer be allowed to land between shore and ship. I urge the Minister to come up with such a final approach, in cooperation with schools and industry. Two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-one. I find it shocking as a Member of Parliament, but also as a teacher and mentor of a number of young people when I hear and read that 16 or 17-year-olds cannot opt for training, because they simply cannot pay for school costs. Other children do start their education, but are excluded, because they do not have the money to buy, for example, the latest computer, which they do need for their lessons. The talents of these young people must not be lost because of their parents' wallet. What is the Minister's view on this? Should there not be much stricter action against unnecessarily high school costs? How does the Minister assess the argument of Stichting Leergeld, among other things, to set up a fund? What is the Minister going to do to prevent young people's qualities and talents from being lost if they are unable to meet the school costs of their choice's training? In vocational education, young people are not only trained for a profession, but also need to be prepared for participation in society. As far as I am concerned, this preparation consists of good citizenship education where she is taught to think critically. Young people from vocational education also have the right to education that teaches them how to make it unnegotiable. It takes guts, guts in the sense of listening, empathy and feedback. Do I understand the Minister correctly that, given her plea in Trouw today, she can only embrace this? Meeting each other, the Minister said, is also important. What if we let young people from VMBO, Havo and VMBO take citizenship classes and sports lessons together? Learning together, living together. Speaking of VMBO, I recently went to work at a school where both young people from VMBO and young people from VWO are offered education. It was striking that there was a 3D printer at the vwo, but not at the vmbo. Even more strikingly, no one was surprised by that. A small example with a big story behind it. The vmbo threatens to become the orphan child, neglected. How do we make sure that the VMBO gets the attention it deserves? The vmbo can't wait until 2032. The VMBO calls for its own thoughtful pedagogical approach. Talent development really means something different in vmbo than in Havo. These are skills and professional skills. What VMBO needs is a broad focus on digitisation, but also on resilience in society and in the field of work. Secretary of State, I urge you to come up with an initiative to do justice to the VMBO. Platform Education2032 is not enough for that, as far as I am concerned. Career guidance is very important; that has been said a few times today. However, this career guidance is not sufficiently completed. As far as my group is concerned, it really must become a core competence of the school. Last week we received from the SER all spokesmen who were there an alert in which the importance of good guidance was acknowledged. I would like to receive a response from the Minister. What is she going to do with this SER alert? The Netherlands has a beautiful manufacturing industry that is internationally appreciated. Does the Minister share my appreciation for the Maker Movement to train young people in vocational education to become creative professionals? I started by saying that in good vocational education young people get a suitcase with expertise and empowerment. I know that the President has also done a great deal in the women's movement and that the idea of empowerment is not entirely new to her. Empowerment stands for nothing more or less than learning young people to turn their talent and quality into influence.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u162	Mr Van Dijk has been waiting a long time for an opportunity to interrupt at the interrupting microphone. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u163	I'm patient, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u164	Yeah, I saw that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u165	Mrs. Jadnansing makes a fine plea against high school fees in the MBO. We've read reports about that; that's really getting out of hand. It is sometimes €1,000 per pupil. As a student who doesn't pay, he doesn't even have to get into class. That's really bad. It would be very good if we could do something about that this week. Now in today's Trouw there is a plea from the Minister to examine the situation with regard to the division in education. Less opportunities for disadvantaged people and more opportunities for the most promising. If you are honest, Mrs Jadnansing, do you agree with me that such a plea is a bit cheap? After all, we already knew about the existence of this problem of school costs. This is an outstanding problem for disadvantaged young people who are excluded from the MBO.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u166	I don't understand the connection between one and the other, so I'll just be very short and powerful. I am in favour of removing obstacles for young people who cannot go to school because of school costs. Mrs Siderius has asked a lot of questions about this with me, so I am sure that I will find the SP on my side. Together we will ask the Minister to come up with a solution for these young people. It cannot be that these young people cannot follow the training of their dreams, purely and simply because they cannot pay the school fees.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u167	That is very nice and I propose that we make a nice joint proposal this week. However, I see the connection between the article in the Trouw of this morning and this subject very well. In reply to our parliamentary questions, the Minister says that high school costs are not funny, but schools have to find out for themselves. My group says that you should take care of that here by means of a proper compensation scheme or through a fund. Mrs. Jadnanansing mentioned the Leergeld foundation. Then we can see that the Minister is actually letting it go when it comes to high school costs. Mrs Jadnansing asked questions about this. The minister says the school should take care of it itself. You can see that we have to act now, can't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u168	If I have read the article in this morning's Trouw correctly, the Minister says precisely that where there are obstacles, we have to solve them. That is why I am making this plea and appeal so that we can resolve it together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u169	I hear loudly warming words from Mrs Jadnansing about upliftment. Let her live up to those warm words. Does Mrs Jadnansing agree with the CDA that upliftment is important for MBOs who go to HBOs, for people from families who are not so rich or for students from the first generation? What does Mrs Jadnanansing think of the fact that 7 000 fewer of these young people went to HBO? Does this not refer to the upliftment which Mrs Jadnansing confesses with her mouth, but which in practice is no longer possible because of government policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u170	I think we have already had this debate in this Chamber. We will also discuss this in detail shortly during the discussion of the strategic agenda. I can be brief and powerful about it: these are provisional figures. We have a system in which young people who want to study and have the skills to do so can simply do so. We have provided for this with the study advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u171	That's the familiar automatic answer. That, too, has been agreed. GroenLinks and D66 give the same answer. However, there are now 7,000 students less in HBO. That's the practice. I would like to know from Mrs Jadnansing how that relates to that ideal of upliftment that she confesses with her mouth. Shouldn't the actions of the Labour Party be different?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u172	Those actions are of such a nature that any young person who has the ability to study can simply do so. That is a very nice system, for which I am very grateful. One of the reasons why I like living in this country is that we have such facilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u173	Mrs. Jadnanancing kept a story about internships. We've been hearing that story for years. I also spoke to mothers who said with tears in their eyes: just because my child has the wrong last name, she or he just doesn't get an internship. That is harsh discrimination, but does Mrs Jadnansing agree with me that the training should ultimately guarantee an internship and that we should just take care of it legally? Does Mrs Jadnansing agree with me that, if the rulers do not make a commitment on this point, we should ask the government by motion to implement that legislation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u174	I'm really starting to laugh. I am glad that Mr Grashoff is asking this question, because I submitted an own-initiative paper on this matter more than two years ago. That note was discussed in the Chamber. I said at the time that I would very much like to place the final responsibility in the schools. Unfortunately, only the SP has supported me in this respect. For the rest, no one did. All the spokesmen have said that they think the internships are important. That is what I have to say; that honour belongs to the spokesmen. At the same time, however, we see that Yahya is rejected 222 times. We shouldn't want that. That is why I ask this question again and come up with a new plan. That plan is designed in such a way that everyone can say: that is a good plan, because we do not want to live in a country where young people are rejected 222 times. I therefore hope to find Mr Grashoff and the other Members of Parliament by my side.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u175	Mrs Jadnanancing certainly finds me on her side in this. If necessary, as far as I am concerned, we shall try that again in this Chamber by way of motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u176	Mr. Chairman. As far as I am concerned, we can now take account of Rutte II's OCW policy in 2015. Rutte I's education policy consisted mainly of rehabilitation work. The knowledge component was restored. Language and mathematics came back to the centre. Knowledge was restored. The teacher became master of his own work again. The value stability of diplomas was strengthened. Diplomacy fraud - we were defeated when that huge fraud was experienced. However, in the 2016 spearheads I see a completely opposite movement. That movement is in my opinion encouraged by D66 and GroenLinks. They are the final winners in the field of education policy and the VVD is ultimately the great loser. Because what exactly has been achieved? There's no more Cito test. It's been de facto abolished. There is no normative, objective final test for primary education. In addition, schools in secondary education are not allowed to carry out entrance examinations. There's no clear hour standard anymore. We are witnessing a sustained fight against the math test, which is becoming more and more under pressure. In short, everyone in education has lost: the schools, the pupils and the parents. Knowledge remains under pressure. Rest and regularity have been returned. The class association will be destroyed if all educational renewal paths are re-established. That is all exactly the opposite of what the PVV would like. The political memory is short. Again we see the same urge for all kinds of unnecessary innovation developing in the Platform Education2032. The first conversation with the platform revealed that there is little eye in the platform for vmbos and mbos. However, the platform will soon issue an opinion on what education should look like by 2032. This opinion will be developed in 2016 in concrete targets for primary and secondary education. Why is there a kind of competition for ideas about education in the future? In the educational province there is already so much fuss with trade unions, teacher cooperatives, sector columns, an Education Council, student organisations. They all want to be heard about everything in the country of education. First of all, there's ideas poverty? Why this open invitation to spout so unstructured ideas about what good education is to get our kids ready for 2032? My biggest shock in the conversation with the platform came when I heard the president unfold the ideas of all stakeholders. I've rarely seen so many open doors. Did you know, for example, that ICT will play an important role in education in the coming years? Boy! Unbelievable! Did you know that there is a lot of customization to be done, that the classification in boxes may be outdated and that tests lead to that perfide teaching to the test? That has sounded so many times here. I used to call that practice for the exam as a teacher. My students were always very happy about that, because it gives them confidence. GroenLinks and D66 are not allowed to do that anymore. But the worst was yet to come. The chairman of the platform came up with the insight that knowledge didn't matter anymore. Where have I heard that before? Oh, yeah, that was the introduction of competence education. And why? Everything can be searched on Google. During Rutte I, CDA, VVD and PVV eventually exposed the competence education as a cut-off operation that offered managers an excuse to stuff 70 students in a large room full of computers to enable them to identify their own individualised, lonely learning path. That was the so-called customization. Now all those self-appointed educational innovators come out with the same ideas as always. Just as we thought that competence education, i.e. and iPad education, would take the wind out of the sails, there comes the next committee with the same levels of plation that have been rising again and again since 1968. They're platinums. However, they are very well expressed this time by the current chairman, tongue in cheek and highbrow, as no other chairman in the Netherlands can. I asked in the round table whether, in the education sector in 2032, in view of the move in the population that is now underway, there should be no more attention to integration, to assimilation, to teaching our own culture and our Western achievements. I asked if that might be more important than offering English to toddlers. The answer was not very clear. I think the chairman meant he didn't think it was important. That is why I am now putting this question to the Minister and the Secretary of State. Shouldn't there be explicit attention within our educational system to Western values, to our standards, to our traditions, to our national heritage, including Black Pete, and to patriotic history? It is also a pity that Platform Education2032 has once again created an educational body that contributes to the further politicisation of the field of education. All domes, except the VSNU, are led by ex-politicians, almost all left-wing ex-politicians. It is a monocultural group that preaches multiculture. There is now a D66 as chairman of this prestigious platform. He is less left, but in one thing the ladies and gentlemen know how to like each other, namely in their collective dislike of the Party for Freedom. I keep following the operations of the platform, but I keep following the sidelines. I've heard and seen enough. In 2032, we're going to see what the world looks like. But why is that? Why do all these gremia, all these big players in the field of education, think they are best served by left-wing and politically correct politicians? I'd like a response from the Secretary of State or the Secretary of State to that. Why do we let another gremium ride on that busy highway in educational country, on which it's all traffic jams? Moreover, the PVV Group believes that it is one of the key tasks of education to elevate, emancipate and integrate citizens. This government not only fails to raise and promote social mobility, I refer to the introduction of the loan system, but also to the integration and introduction into our Western culture of immigrant pupils. For thirty years, education has done nothing but decipher and relativize our own culture, and it is above all not intended as a goal. What did this lead to? Islam has also become increasingly anti-western in the Netherlands, but that road-with-us mentality in education seems stronger than ever. It is terrible to establish, but all of our well-meaning education has eventually led to massive forms of voluntary segregation, culminating in a parallel society, further Islamization and even the jihad course of young Muslims, I would call them even those who want to give their lives in the fight against the perfide west, in the fight against us. However, the government leaders, but also the vast majority of this house and of education, leave this completely indifferent. A good example is the celebration of Ashura. Every year, imam Hussein's death is commemorated by self-flame on the streets, here in The Hague. 150 people chastising themselves to bleeds, neatly divided into age groups, starting with boys from five to ten years old and here and there a woman in burqa. It can and should all be done by the tolerant city of The Hague and by almost all the teachers and masters in education, because it is cultural enrichment. Then who are we to find our Western way of thinking and life superior? But the PVV and our constituents don't want this anymore. Our constituents find it incomprehensible that we of the moral elite may expose children to this sectarian, barbaric form of self-mutilation, while declaring our own heritage to be racism. See the discussion about Black Piet that corrupted forever the children's feast that has been sinterklaas for a long time. Can the Secretary of State give an explanation as to why Ashhura and no Black Piet now? I'm asking him to explain that to all those parents who don't want this. The cabinet has opened the educational doors wide to asylum seekers. More and more schools are telling us that they are no longer able to deal with this growing number of asylum children. It also has to be done on a regular basis. Those children have to attend education within eight weeks of arrival, but that is problematic because it is difficult to find funding and schools to help children who do not speak Dutch. That's a real problem. The real problem is, of course, the number of asylum seekers in general; these wide open borders lead to social disruption. Do the rulers also see that this social disruption extends to education? We'll see. I'd like to get a reaction to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u177	Thank you. Oh, I see Mrs. Ypma walking to the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u178	I didn't think there were any interruptions at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u179	I would like to do Mr Bertema a favor by interrupting him. It is precisely for refugee children who have been through a great deal at an early age that it is crucial that they go to school as soon as possible and that they receive education within three days. They are entitled to this, including extra attention to language and trauma processing. Does Mr Beertema agree with me that every child in the Netherlands is entitled to this within three days?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u180	That's an open door, of course I agree. That wasn't my statement. My position is that the open borders, the migration of people that is going on and the invasion of the Netherlands are socially disruptive. I see this social disruption extending to the policy area for which I am the spokesman for the Party for Freedom, Education. I ask the Minister and the Secretary of State if they agree. Do they see the disruptive effects of this huge influx of asylum children who need to be facilitated?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u181	We are talking today about the Education budget. The PVV calls: resist, and that has now become daily practice. We would like people to talk to each other and to learn how to live together at school. I hope that Mr Beertema agrees with me that we should keep our heads and hearts here, because these people deserve it so much. It is precisely the children who have already experienced so much that they deserve to be accepted and that they, like all Dutch children, receive education in our schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u182	So that wasn't a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u183	No, that's not a question, Mr. Chairman. Mrs Ypma knows our point of view: we would much rather not have these children and their parents coming and, if necessary, being cared for in our own region or in Turkey. That's where a lot of people come from, and that's a safe country. In this respect, we would prefer to see the external borders or the external borders as they are not possible, and that is clearly not possible to close the internal borders.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u184	I heard Mr Beertema say something encouraging at the last interruption, namely that he thinks it is an open door that children simply have a direct right to education.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u185	Why does Mr Grashoff find that encouraging? I think that's weird.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u186	I'm talking, and I'd like to finish. I think that's very good. It's beautiful.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u187	No, no, wait a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u188	Especially in view of his concern about social disruption, I assume that this remark by Mr Beertema means that he will agree with me that the funding of that education in the Netherlands should be provided directly and adequately. That is my question to Mr Beertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u189	I am surprised at the world view of Mr Grashoff, who apparently thinks that the PVV is not capable of normal human thinking. Is that right? That's what I'm asking him. Why should I worry about that? Of course, I'm a spokesperson for education. I have spent 34 years in Rotterdam-Zuid trying to elevate and emancipate all kinds of immigrant children, Mr Grashoff. That's the city in which you served as alderman yourself. You must know all about that, mustn't you? I do not understand your introduction, but well, it will be your own political deformation. What was your question again?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u190	Yeah, that's what happens when people react too long.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u191	Does Mr Beertema agree with me that the funding of education for these children should also be regulated quickly and adequately?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u192	Of course. If that's the law, it has to be done. But, Mr Grashoff, I'd rather not. I'd rather those kids didn't show up. I'd rather have those kids and their parents taken care of in the region. And if they have to leave, then they come through all kinds of safe countries where they can also receive education. I'd rather not be here. That's my answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u193	Mr. Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u194	No, Chairman! I didn't ask a follow-up question at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u195	Yes, you did.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u196	That's not true. Mr Bertema forgot my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u197	Oh, yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u198	I helped him by reminding him for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u199	I didn't. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u200	You're all awake, I see. Your last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u201	I find it extraordinary that Mr Bertema responds with frustration and frustration to a positive remark I make. Indeed, I do not often do that in front of the PVV, but perhaps it says more about the experience of reality by Mr Beertema than about the experience of it by me. To confirm once again: I can assume that, if necessary, Mr Beertema, together with us in today's debate, supports the plea for rapid, adequate and adequate education. I think that's a positive thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u202	That wasn't a question, either. It was a remark. You may respond to it, Mr Beertema, but you do not have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u203	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u204	Mr. Kuzu?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u205	Mr Beertema of the PVV talks about "destructive effects in society." Two out of three teachers, Trouw reported last year, claims to see Muslim discrimination in the classroom. Does Mr Bertema see disruptive effects due to Muslim discrimination in the classroom?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u206	I don't see it. I do see discrimination the other way around. I see that girls in Rotterdam are almost unable to cross the street because there are Muslim boys who prevent that and those girls add everything I prefer not to repeat here. This is a form of discrimination which worries me deeply. I see violence and aggression from groups of Moroccan and Turkish boys, who think it is necessary, for example, to systematically bully children from special education from the blood under the nails. I've been in there, so, yeah, I can see that. And I do find that disruptive.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u207	It is clear that Mr Bertema has not been in the educational world for some time and that he is stuck in the political system of The Hague. I'm from Rotterdam. I really do see a very different reality than the reality in which he lives. But my question was very simple. Two of the three teachers in education indicate that there is Muslim discrimination among them in the classroom. My simple question is: do you think that has a disruptive effect on society, Mr. Beertema, yes or no? And that is not what I am saying, that is two of the three teachers currently working in education. Mr Beertema should not now pretend that it does not exist and point to all kinds of other things, which he also enlarges.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u208	If that's indeed a fact... I don't know that investigation. I understand it's coming from Trouw, which for me doesn't indicate the highest form of reliability, but good.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u209	Mr President, on a point of order. This is a news item...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u210	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I'm talking about my own words!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u211	Gentlemen, Mr Bertema spoke.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u212	Point of order? You have such a short, I mean long toes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u213	Were you ready? Go on, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u214	No, I was wrong for a second. He doesn't have short toes, but of course he has very long ones. If that is the case, we must of course oppose any form of discrimination, but I do not see that this has a disruptive effect. I do see the disruptive effects of mass immigration daily in Rotterdam-Zuid and in the Schilderswijk. I see Islamization in all kinds of schools, in all kinds of institutions in the Netherlands that we all pay taxes for. That's disruption. You can run away now because you don't like my answer, Mr. Kuzu, but that's the social disruption I see. For years I have seen a social disruption in education, because the level of influx of all kinds of language-weak immigrant pupils is bringing the level down incredibly. That is a disruptive effect and I am concerned about it. Mr President, I shall leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u215	Good. It is "long toes" and "a short fuse."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u216	I had already fixed that twice, Mr President, but I am glad that you have done so a third time. If we didn't have you...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u217	Thank you. I suggest we suspend until 2:00 p.m. This debate will then be resumed and the other spokesmen will speak.
