ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u1	I welcome the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u2	Mr. Chairman. In the debate with the Minister, we discussed important issues such as the future of childcare, the new supervision and the new financing structure. My group wishes to table two motions today. The first concerns the new financing structure. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Government intends to establish a new funding structure for childcare for working parents;]] [[having noted that, in addition to the childcare allowance for working parents, there are multiple funding flows for the care of children, including through development law and educational disadvantage policies;]] [[considers that it is desirable to also examine scenarios for the new childcare funding structure that include all funding flows for childcare;]] [[calls on the Government to present several scenarios to the Chamber for the new funding structure of childcare, supported by opportunities, risks and a financial transfer, and not to make irreversible decisions before that time,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Siderius. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31322-282]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u3	As of 1 January 2016, the government also intended to allow parents who let their child go to the playroom to apply for child care allowance. That date has been postponed because we are going to have a new financing structure. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Government intended to give parents the opportunity to apply for childcare allowance for care in the playroom as of 1 January 2016;]] [[noting that by introducing a new childcare funding system, this possibility will in any case be postponed until 2018 and possibly even longer;]] [[having noted that from 2016 onwards, funds have been released in the budget for the extension of the child care allowance applications;]] [[calls on the Government to allow parents to apply for childcare allowance for care in the playroom as from 1 January 2016 and to establish a transitional regime for this purpose,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Siderius. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31322-283]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u4	Mr. Chairman. We welcome the 290 million extra for the childcare allowance. We did have some discussion during the debate on the distribution of income. I was therefore pleased that the Minister offered, if GroenLinks had an alternative to another distribution of the 290 million, to submit this to the CPB. In fact, we believe that a different distribution might be more supportive, but might also have a better impact on the employment rate. We also discussed the basic provision of childcare services. According to GroenLinks, that is the point we should be going to. I wonder whether the new financing structure which the cabinet intends to create does not confuse the situation correctly. But that is what we are going to talk about, as well as the parent participation crèches.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u5	Mr. Chairman. I am not tabling any motions, but I would like to highlight a number of issues and also ask a question. Children deserve the best start in education, regardless of their origins or the neighbourhood in which they grow up. Childcare gives children the basis for that good start. That is why the Labour Party is also pleased that the Cabinet invests 290 million extra in childcare and therefore in young children. This makes child care a lot cheaper for parents. Furthermore, of course, we also welcome the other investment, the 60 million to allow toddlers to go to care at least a few days a week. That is a long-cherished wish of the Labour Party. This is another investment in equal opportunities for young children. I do have one more question about this. Can the Minister explain how the EUR 60 million will be filled in? Will this mean that all toddlers can go to the shelter? Can the Chamber be informed about this in due course?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u6	Do I understand that Mrs Yücel believes that these additional investments can guarantee the complete end-of-day arrangement for all young children? I find that interesting and then I know that for the sequel. Did I understand her correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u7	That is precisely the commitment and ambition of the Labour Party. That is why I am curious to see how this is worked out and what scope it has. Hence my supplementary question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u8	Finally, Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u9	Too bad, because my commitment would be to give all young children a right of development. For a moment, I thought Mrs. Yücel promised, but unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u10	In my view, I have said that it is our ambition that all toddlers, regardless of whether or not both parents work, should be able to make use of a basic offer which will enable them to develop well. As far as I know, D66 is on that line, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u11	I would like to clarify this. It says in the budget that all toddlers will be able to go to the preschool playroom for two days. In the Throne speech this has already been reduced a bit and a different formulation has been used. I asked Mrs Yücel for this in the debate. She said loudly: all toddlers can share two days to the preschool playroom. Am I to understand that the Labour Party will return to this today?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u12	Mrs Siderius is completely wrong about that. Our commitment is that all toddlers can get a basic offer for a few parts of the day to make use of a facility. They can then develop and make a flying start in education. I would now ask the Minister to inform us about how this lands in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u13	Bet's nice. We all have a stake. My commitment is to make childcare a public provision, for example. In the debate, Mrs Yücel said that all toddlers could go to the nursery two parts of the day. Now she says this is her bet. I understand the Labour Party is breaking promises here again. Unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u14	What Mrs Siderius is putting forward is totally incorrect. Our commitment, ambition and expectation are that all toddlers can get an offer for a few parts of the day. Only we don't stop at the reservation of the money. I am now asking the Minister, on behalf of the Labour Party, how this is being worked out and whether we can achieve this in practice. This is just regular chamber work.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u15	No other speakers have come forward. Before I give the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment, I shall suspend the sitting for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u16	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Siderius' motion for a resolution 282 I must advise against. We are currently working on a new funding system for childcare, in which the government directly finances childcare organisations and makes an income-dependent contribution to parents. One condition is that the parents of the children who have been taken care of work. It is important that we create a system that is transparent and functioning well. That's what I want to focus on. We're working hard on this system, with all the checks-and-balances. We've agreed to this with the Chamber. We're testing the system with additional functionalities and user groups and I don't want to burden it with more implementation and ICT risks. In Mrs Siderius' motion to item No. 283 is requested by the government to allow parents to apply for childcare allowance as of 1 January 2016. I don't recommend that motion. The motion is, first of all, not enforceable on such short notice. Secondly, for the children's playrooms, we will first equalise the quality requirements from 1 January 2017 and then the financial structure will be aligned as of 1 January 2018. That's a real timeline. Then I come to Mrs Yücel's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u17	I'm getting the floor a little late, but it's my first motion. The minister says he doesn't want to burden the ICT systems with multiple scenarios. I think he's jumping to a very strange conclusion from this motion. In this motion, the government is asked to do better research and also to see if it can be done even more easily, by including this other flow of funding in the simple, flexible, effective funding system advocated by the Minister. So I'm just asking for research. I am not asking for ICT systems or anything like that to be burdened.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u18	I believe that the motion calls for multiple scenarios, backed up by opportunities, risks and financial transfers. So that's not just anything. The speaker should therefore not be surprised that I am against it. The debate already showed that I was against it. Mrs Siderius now wishes to refer this to the Chamber. That's her right. I'm just dissuading the adoption of that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u19	That's clear. Mrs Siderius, do you have another question on the motion for a resolution? 283 dissuaded by the minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u20	If I could, Mr. Chairman. This motion concerns the child care allowance for the preschool playroom. The Minister says that it has been decided that the financing structure will not start until late. The parents who let their children go to the playground apparently do not need that child care allowance now. However, that money is reserved. I am therefore curious to know exactly where the money is going. Can the Minister explain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u21	The money is now in the municipalities, which partly also buy places for toddlers. Mrs. Yücel asked about the 60 million for toddlers. In order to ensure that that money is spent properly, I want to make agreements with the UNG on this. We do not want to impose a blueprint, but rather to give municipalities room for local customization. The starting point is that municipalities can make choices that fit the local situation. Of course, I will inform the House of Representatives at the important moments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u22	I think Mrs Yücel asked: can this money reach all toddlers from the moment it is released? I did not get out of that entirely in the interrupting debate with Mrs Yücel, but I think she asked the Minister that question at the time. In any case, I am curious about the Minister's answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u23	I understand. The answer will therefore come as soon as I have more to say about the agreements with the UNG.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u24	Mr Van Weyenberg, we are not going to reopen the debate. If you have a very short question, I'll allow it. Otherwise, we're gonna have to move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u25	If the cabinet makes money available in a budget, does it have any idea how many young children can achieve it? I understand that there's still a discussion going on, but can't the Minister really give an indication of it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u26	Sure, we have an idea. That is also in the budget. This needs to be worked out in agreements with the VNG. That was also my answer to the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u27	Mrs Siderius, I'd like a very brief question. We have had the debate and it is not customary to debate it or reopen it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u28	I understand that, but the Minister's answer is special. The budget states that development law allows all toddlers to go to the preschool playroom free of charge. So I don't know what the Minister's so hard on about. Or is he pulling out now and saying that maybe not all toddlers can go to the preschool for two free day trips?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u29	I'm not being difficult. The question was how am I gonna spend that $60 million? That's what I want to make arrangements with the municipalities and then I'll come back to the Chamber. I do not see her anymore, Mrs Voortman, said that she might want to have the Central Planning Office pass on other scenarios for the additional 290 million for childcare. Of course, you can always do that. The Chamber can do that. If she asks me for scenarios, I can pass on that question. It is good to realize that this is no longer possible for the year 2016. The Tax Administration really has to work with the schedules that have already been made. That's why I've been discussing things with the Chamber for Princess' Day. It may be important for later years, because that amount of 290 million is structural. However, this warning is part of that. It is not realistic to think that all kinds of scenarios can still be passed on, which may then be processed by the Tax Administration.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-27.u30	I thank the Minister. The motions tabled will be put to the vote on Tuesday. I'm gonna suspend the meeting, but I don't know for how long. The settlement talks about having an extra debate today. It is not yet clear what the schedule will look like.
