ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u1	We continue with the budget Economic Affairs, part Agriculture and Nature. We still have three blocks to go. It would be nice if we could be ready with the government's first-term response at 5.30 p.m., because then there are mega-votes planned. Then we can continue with part two of the debate in the evening. But that is perhaps a very ambitious objective. If you all, both the government and the Chamber, make a point, we will come a long way. I'd be very happy if we could be done by 5:30 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u2	Mr. Chairman. I will try to provoke as few questions as possible; that will help. The second block of my answer is about more natural food. As Ban Ki-moon said at the New York Climate Summit last year, the world faces two very big challenges: providing a super-fast growing world population with energy and food, without irreparable damage to nature and the climate. In the densely populated Netherlands, we feel this pressure every day and are constantly looking for ever more efficient production methods, which are in balance with the unique nature we have here. I have just said that the only future for agriculture is sustainable agriculture. The direction is more natural. I am here to talk about animal welfare, the animal numbers bill, the rules in Brabant, the antibiotics, the ritual slaughter, manure and phosphate, the pasture slaughter and the landing obligation. I'll start with animal welfare. Cattle farmers work daily and with incredible passions I was able to see this on my first work visits to livestock farming and its sustainability. Animal welfare is an integral part of that. In the field of animal welfare, the Netherlands is already one of the frontrunners, and we should be proud of that. I realise that further anchoring animal welfare in sustainable livestock farming is not an easy task. The development of new livestock systems such as the round stables, the wind circling, the shelter and the new breeding bays for sows show that good housing and good management can make a lot of profit. Cross-compliance, such as the possibility of marketing these products on the national and international markets, also plays a role. The sector, the chain and animal protection are working on this together, supported by the government. I am therefore also prepared to table with all animal protection organisations that wish to contribute to this. It is important that the high animal welfare ambitions of the Netherlands are reflected in European rules. This is important not only for fair competition within the EU, but also for improving animal welfare in other EU Member States. With a number of other frontrunners, Germany, Denmark, Sweden and now with the support of Luxembourg, Belgium and Austria, there is an active effort to increase the level of animal welfare across the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u3	I have a feeling you're in the middle of some kind of introduction. Did you close it with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u4	No, Mr President, I was already fully engaged in animal welfare policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u5	In that case, the high ambitions are in very stark contrast to reality. The Secretary of State is talking about the round stables. I was talking about that in my first term. There's only four of them left. There are 18,000 animals, while in the Netherlands there are almost 47 million chickens. Those are peanuts. It's nothing. Nothing has changed in the last ten years. Only one came in a year. Surely this Secretary of State can't say that chicken farming is really full of sustainability?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u6	In an earlier part of this debate, I said that Mrs Thieme is undoubtedly not always fast enough. I understand both her ambition and her impatience. However, one must also realise that we are talking about a large sector in which changes cannot take place overnight, but take time. However, I see positive developments. The round stable is one of them. You can also see that consumers are buying more and more consciously. In the Dutch supermarkets there are already no loose cage eggs for sale. There are only free-range eggs, free-range eggs and organic eggs. You can also see that consumers are increasingly buying organic and sustainable products. Last year alone, this share increased by 18%. So there are positive developments. I think we both agree that we should continue along this path. In doing so, we can take steps together with the sector. I have already accepted a little that those steps for Mrs Thieme will probably never be fast enough, but I hope she will like the direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u7	It is a pity that an idealist is so quick to respond to the lack of quick steps. It is also striking that the Secretary of State refers precisely to an animal welfare improvement measure taken by the government, namely a ban on caged eggs. As a result, all chicken farmers have switched to free-range eggs, free-range eggs and organic eggs. Can the Secretary of State give just one example of an improvement in animal welfare through self-regulation? I mean really a step in the right direction, because there are only four of them. This is mainly aimed at the domestic market. 70% is still the same and commonplace. Can the Secretary of State say where the sector has really taken a step?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u8	Mrs Thieme is not quite right in this case. The common cage eggs are prohibited, but within the EU the enriched cage and colony housing are still allowed. The eggs do not enter the Dutch supermarket. They are processed in products, but the supermarket buys free-range eggs, free-range eggs, organic eggs or round eggs. This shows that the supermarket is busy making the offer more sustainable. That's what I said about meat later. Steps are being taken to ensure that the meat that is in the supermarket no longer comes from animals that live as they do now, but from animals that have had a slightly better life. So steps are being taken. There is no doubt that Mrs Thieme is not fast enough. I respect her ambition in this respect, but I do see that progress is being made.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u9	Yes, progress is being made on some points, but I do not think the Secretary of State can deny that there is a decline in a number of areas. I find Mrs Thieme's question interesting. What's the point now? That is, of course, the essence. Is there a natural positive development in the whole agricultural sector? Or were the conservationists and/or the government hugely important triggers for this natural positive development? We have seen the most important development that has emerged purely from the sector itself after the abolition of milk quotas, namely a huge increase in the number of cows, with all the misery we have had since then in the fields of phosphate rights, manure processing and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u10	The subject "manure" is further down this block. I think it's often an interaction. Sometimes civil society organisations denounce abuses. In the Chamber too, abuses are sometimes denounced. This in turn leads to greater awareness among consumers, who translate this into their purchasing behaviour. This also puts pressure on the market to adapt to this. That's what happens. Sometimes the government intervenes, too. I was just telling you that we're going out with other European countries and that we've formed some sort of leading group. It is detrimental if there is no level playing field within the European Union. We want to take steps to improve animal welfare, but in other countries, such as those in Eastern Europe and Southern Europe, this plays less socially than here. Other countries do not want to take these steps. This leads to a competitive disadvantage for our farmers. To take this away, we want to step up, together with those countries I mentioned earlier, to raise animal welfare standards at European level and, for example, to phase out interventions. We can take these steps, because we are working together with a number of countries and form a kind of leading group. In this example, the steps indeed come from the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u11	I do not think that the Secretary of State should give too romantic a picture of the sector. Everything that has happened in the fields of animal welfare, improvements in the agricultural sector and sustainability has been done under direct or indirect influence of the public authorities and other stakeholders. It didn't come from the sector itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u12	Let me tell you the other way around. I do not think that Mr Grashoff should just give a negative picture of the sector, as is sometimes the case for other Members of this Chamber. The passion of farmers for their animals is unprecedented. Many of us could take an example of this. I also know that farmers often want to take steps themselves, for example towards more animal welfare. However, they also have to deal with the market conditions in which they have to produce. We can help change these market conditions. We can also help farmers make a change. Let's not just talk negative about it. With the farmers I have met, not only in recent weeks but also before that, I have seen a great passion, both for the animal and for animal welfare.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u13	I share the last thing the Secretary of State said. The whistleblowers from the sector who have reported to me have said that things must change, but that there must be a level playing field, a level playing field. That's what these guys are waiting for before they start running first. I heard the Secretary of State mention a list of countries with which the Netherlands will cooperate in the field of animal welfare. The Secretary of State may also cooperate with Bulgaria. Bulgaria is not known for its animal friendliness, but following what the PVV wanted, there is a full-time animal police. I just got back from Bulgaria. There will be 60 full-time police officers and this number will be expanded. There are eight or nine more countries that are going to get a full-time animal police. We had them once, during Rutte I, when the PVV was allowed to take part in the decision. Now we are gradually becoming a developing country in this area. Perhaps the Secretary of State can come with me sometime, if he does go on trips and walk under an umbrella with the Christian Union. Maybe he can go with me to Bulgaria. Then we can see how it's really done.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u14	We'll see if the Secretary of State wants to come with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u15	I thank everyone for the invitation. Maybe we can all go to Bulgaria. I think we're going to Berlin together in a couple of weeks. Let's start with that and see if we like it. I'd like that. I mentioned the countries with which we are leading in Europe and with which we work: Germany, Denmark and Sweden. There's more and more of them. I mentioned Luxembourg, Belgium and Austria. Of course, we are very keen to add countries to it, because we want to have this debate in Europe and because we want to raise animal welfare standards in Europe, both in the interests of animal welfare and in the interests of our farmers. If we want these steps to be taken, they must also have a level playing field within Europe. Better animal welfare can be accompanied by slightly higher costs. If you are then competed away by farmers elsewhere in Europe, it will ultimately destroy all efforts. We want to take steps in it. I am also pleased that we can work together with a number of countries. That makes more mass. That mass is getting bigger, and that will have an effect. If Bulgaria wishes to join, I would be particularly pleased to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u16	That is not what I meant, of course, because Bulgaria is far behind in terms of animal welfare. We had a full-time animal police here, a very successful force. Nowhere in the world have so many by-catches been done as by the animal police: domestic violence, hemp plantations, stolen vehicles, weapons possession, you name it. These were done in the case of animal police raids after a report of a lost or abused dog on an estate. There's an invader and then these sick idiots find lots of parameters of ingenuity. Now Bulgaria, an underdeveloped country in the field of animal welfare, is getting a full-time animal police. The same applies to Singapore, Scandinavian countries and many other countries. They are about to come up with a full-time animal police; I am working on it myself, because I am the great lobbyist throughout the world for this. Everyone's about to get a full-time animal police, except the Netherlands where it's ever started. Of course you can't. Let me be clear: 'Animal Cops' is a television series about boas, extraordinary detectives, which we have had here for decades. It's not animal police, it's not animal police. Animal cops are boas and not animal police.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u17	This threatens to become a bit of a repetition of the debate earlier today. I know Mr Graus' passion and appreciate it. He knows that we have chosen to integrate the tasks of the animal police with regular police work, but to invest them specifically with police officers specializing in the detection and handling of animal abuse. He can continue to discuss this with colleagues from Security and Justice. He knows the choices made by the cabinet and they are not going to change in this period.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u18	I've already heard Mrs Thieme in this block, so I'm gonna let the Secretary of State talk again. Mrs Thieme?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u19	Mr President, it is an important point for me to talk about animal welfare.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u20	Dart, I understand, but you've already been covered in this interrupting block, and otherwise we'll never make it through.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u21	Can I come back at the end of this block?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u22	Yeah, you can go all the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u23	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u24	Happy, Mr. Chairman. We are working together not only to increase animal welfare by phasing out interventions, but also by improving transport conditions and the duration of transport, which Mrs Thieme has also asked for. Together with Germany and Denmark, a position paper on transport has been written, which is part of the Vught Declaration. This includes shortening travel time, improving conditions for animals during transport and optimizing enforcement. This includes harmonised and centrally registered GPS systems within the European Union. Nationally, the focus is on the policy rules on standing height, loading and quality systems of the sector. Pilots have been launched for this last point, which will soon be evaluated. Mr Graus has asked to facilitate the possibility of a foundation being set up to raise money to offer rewards to track down animal executioners. The initiative for this is animal executioners, and they can be prosecuted under criminal law. I leave it to the Minister of Security and Justice to look at a proposal for such a foundation in consultation with private parties. I'm coming to the intensive livestock farm. The cabinet is pursuing an integrated approach, but I am sure that Mr Graus is not going to ask a question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u25	It's about a targeted question I've asked. In any case, thank you for what the Secretary of State said about the foundation. There are many people who want to give money, including artists and wealthy entrepreneurs, but that must be facilitated. It can't be some tokkie club where everything goes wrong and where the cash is cheated on. That is why I have proposed that the government should help with this, so that there will also be proper supervision. It may also be possible for the Secretary of State to vote today to the Minister of Security and Justice. I don't see the minister every week, he does.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u26	The President would sometimes say in these situations that the stenogram will be passed on. I will send Mr Graus' signal to the Minister of V and J, but it really is with them. I say to Mr Graus that he must also contact the Minister for Security and Justice to discuss this further, because such a foundation and its purpose lie in his field.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u27	The Secretary of State jumps to a new block. I would like to dwell on animal welfare. The Secretary of State has skilfully served the PvdA's plan on the kilo-snatter. Mrs Dikkers also talked about keeping animals on their feet in the Netherlands by using antibiotics. What does the Secretary of State think of this ruling?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u28	This morning, I think I have said three times that I would come back to that at a later date. We are now very close to it. So perhaps Mr Geurts can be patient for a moment, because I have two further issues to deal with.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u29	For once, I'm gonna try to exercise my patience.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u30	Just for our timetable: what block is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u31	We're at the intensive livestock farm now. After that, I'm gonna go on antibiotics.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u32	On landing duty?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u33	No, after that, after intensive livestock farming, because it is connected, so that is not entirely illogical. The cabinet pursues an integrated approach for livestock farming. Part of this is to limit or limit the growth of livestock farming where it is necessary from the point of view of public health, the environment, nature, the quality of the environment or social integration. In doing so, account should be taken of a large regionally different structure and size of livestock farming. On the basis of the opinion of the Health Council, the Cabinet considers it desirable to limit the number of animals in certain areas from the point of view of public health. That is why the cabinet has previously announced a legal framework. Mr Van Gerven and Mrs Thieme have asked what is going on here. I would like to take you into account in the developments in this area. Current environmental law provides tools to address public health risks. In principle, restrictions on livestock farming may be imposed on the general grounds of public health protection. It must be ensured that it is likely that public health is at stake and that the intended restrictions are necessary in this respect. Mrs Dikkers asked if I have already been able to take note of this, so it is true that the province of North Brabant has created additional opportunities for measures to be taken against livestock farms to reduce health risks by applying the Crisis and Recovery Act of the Ministry of I and M. This provides a basis to apply in North Brabant de Maatlat Sustainable Cattle Farming and the Brabant Health Score Cattle Farming in the spatial policy. In addition, the Crisis and Recovery Act allows the establishment of customised rules for odour and particulate matter in existing authorisation-free livestock farms without development plans in the so-called emergency areas of North Brabant. The Crisis and Recovery Act will be incorporated into the Environment Act. The solutions currently offered to the province of North Brabant are involved. The proposed new Environment Act contains coat-stands for the application of the precautionary principle to protect health. According to the amended proposal now before the First Chamber, the precautionary principle should be taken into account when drawing up an environmental vision. I would like to see how the proposed bill on animal numbers and public health has added value over what is already regulated in the Environment Act, including after amendment in this Chamber. I would like to inform the Chamber about this, and about the consequences of the proposed legislative proposal, at the beginning of 2016. I now come to the subject of antibiotics, Mr Geurts. The approach to antibiotics is part of the sustainability of livestock farming. I am committed to this with the Minister of the United States of America. Mr Geurts already referred to the fact that the spokesmen spoke to each other about this in their first term. Let me say this. Much has already been achieved in the Dutch sector. A large decrease of 58% has been achieved. Recently, however, a flattening of this decline is evident because the low-hanging fruit has been picked, but that is still a very great achievement and a very big step forward. But that doesn't get us there yet. There are still steps to be taken to further reduce the use of antibiotics. In the spring of this year, I will send the Chamber, together with the VWS Minister, the plans for the follow-up to this important dossier. Given the importance of this issue, it is of course also a priority for me during the forthcoming Presidency of the European Union. Let me put it this way: not all Member States are as active as we are. Antibiotic resistance usually does not stop at the border, so it is very important that other Member States also take a more vigorous approach. That is why, for example, we are organising a major conference on one health. There will be both EU agriculture and public health ministers, because we would like to ensure that other countries follow our example.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u34	The Secretary of State must have some sense of reality. The Netherlands was one of the countries that used most antibiotics in livestock farming, so the Netherlands was also the first to do something about it. I would very much like the Secretary of State to outline a framework within which we can take further steps to reduce antibiotic use. We now see that the sector is moving towards the creation of laboratory stables. These are SPF stables (Specified Pathogen Free stables) or high-care stables. These are superhygienic stables where animals cannot exhibit their natural behavior. They'll never get out. It's tight. You have to take a shower when you go in. It's computer-controlled. It's almost the same as a laboratory. I would like the cabinet to indicate that this is not the way we want to go. We also have another mission: integrally sustainable and animal-friendly stables. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that laboratory stables are not the way to go?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u35	In my introduction, I have already outlined that "natural" is one of my three great ambitions. Animals must be able to show their natural behavior. That was the ambition of my predecessor and that will also be my ambition. Natural behavior does not preferably mean that an animal spends its life in a stable. That is the reality in an important part of livestock farming. I will come to pig farming, for example. The question is how we can move forward in such a way that it will ultimately make the sector stronger.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u36	Sure. I now expect the Secretary of State to give his opinion on the development of more and more laboratory-like stables in order to reduce antibiotic use. Does the Secretary of State consider that this is not an integrated approach that he can support? I would very much like to hear a view on this. Then the people in the sector also know what they should or should not invest in.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u37	What companies in the Netherlands invest or not invest in is up to those companies themselves. It is up to us to look at what we might be dealing with by means of regulation. I have just indicated that we are doing so where we really need to do so and in what matters we support. If the livestock sector expects my support for certain developments, it will mainly be in an integrated approach, working not only on lower antibiotic use, but also on more animal welfare, more sustainability and more innovation. As Mrs Thieme rightly says, this should be looked at in full if you want to be able to count on support. This principle is now included, for example, in a number of grant instruments and support measures. Mrs Dikkers was a bit critical of that yesterday, but it secured the integrity. It will also be further strengthened.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u38	The Secretary of State has said today that he is more concerned with quality than with quantity in intensive livestock farming. Now we have arrived at antibiotic policy. The further we reduce antibiotic use, the better it is. Everyone is in favour of that. 80% of the chicken flocks are now treated with antibiotics. Of the slower-growing breeds, about 95%, a very large majority, are antibiotic-free. Is the Secretary of State prepared to convert the sector from keeping fast-growing chickens to keeping more robust, slower-growing breeds, so that antibiotic use can virtually disappear from the chicken ector?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u39	We will also involve such developments in the vision of the future. My predecessor has worked intensively with the sector. I am thinking, for example, of the Kip van Morgen, which unfortunately ran into restrictions in the field of competition, and I will gladly continue with that route.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u40	Can the Secretary of State give a first appreciation of this data? Let's just abstract it a little bit. If a more robust, slower-growing animal breed leads to less antibiotic use, should we encourage it? I think that would fit in perfectly with the vision of more quality. This also means that there is less antibiotic use.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u41	I have just said that I would like to continue the efforts already made by my predecessor in this area, including the transition to other breeds and working together with the sector on more animal welfare and less antibiotic use. That is also the answer to Mr Van Gerven's question. So I'll go that way, too. With the line I choose, I will not deviate from that of my predecessor. I come to speak about pig farming, a sector where there is a great deal of concern at the moment. Mr Van Gerven asked for a plan to give old farms in pig farming a chance to quit. I agree that there should be a switch to more quality. This has also been indicated by Mr Rosenthal, the chairman of the Vitale pig farming management group. Mr Rosenthal pointed out that the future of pig farming lies more in a distinctive product than in continuing on the existing road. I have just said that the existing road has led to great concerns and problems for a large number of farms in pig farming. I note with Mr Rosenthal that the current business model has proved very vulnerable and offers little prospect for the future. The Management Group on Vital pig farming will come forward with proposals for restructuring pig farming. He has already announced that encouraging the cessation and relocation of businesses is part of this. As soon as Mr Rosenthal's directing group has taken the following steps, the Chamber will of course be informed. I suspect that we will discuss this further here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u42	Mr Geurts would like to make a comment on a previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u43	I assume the block of antibiotics is over. Then the question remains open as to whether the Secretary of State wishes to respond to Mrs Dikkers' presentation of the kilo-bullers. I haven't heard what the Secretary of State thinks of that. I've asked him about that before. Others have done the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u44	I have indicated that great steps have been taken and that a significant reduction in antibiotic use has taken place, I said that this is something to be proud of, that the sector has taken really important steps in this area, but that we are not there yet. We'll have to continue on that line. I would like to hear the debate that Members have had among themselves on whether the glass is half full or half empty. I'd say it's half-full, but we should also be working on the other half. However, it is not appropriate for me to be a referee in debates between Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u45	I think that's a little too simple. I'm talking about the phrase "keep going." We have asked the Secretary of State directly what he thinks of such a ruling. I know how much this hurts in livestock farming, which has made so much effort. I refer to the family businesses and families that work very hard seven days a week and get this over with. I assume the Secretary of State is also following the media. I would also like to draw attention to the reports that are being sent to my mailbox. I assume, by the way, that the Secretary of State cannot follow them. It's just really bothering people. I think the Secretary of State should simply distance himself from such a statement. I urge him to make such a clear statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u46	In all the years I've been on your side, I've always learned that it's in the relations between Chamber and Cabinet to MPs to have a judgment on the Cabinet, but it's not up to the Cabinet to have a judgment on MPs. I would have liked to hear the debate. I have said what my appreciation is, that I also praise the sector for its achievements. At the same time, I see that there is reason to still have ambition, that we should continue on the path of antibiotic reduction. However, I have spoken praisefully about what has already been achieved.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u47	The Secretary of State referred to the report of the management group led by Mr Rosenthal on pig farming. It calls for better quality. At the same time, it distances itself from the idea that it might be wise to reduce this sector. In the meantime, there is talk of overproduction. There is also talk of supporting out-of-date companies that want to quit. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance also seems wise to do so. Of course, that costs collective money again. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that, in this way, we should reduce the pig sector and reduce the number of animals, and that it is only in that context that it is sensible and sensible to contribute to the cessation of farming?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u48	This is really a matter for the Rosenthal Committee. It is an initiative of the sector itself. I think it is a sensible initiative. The sector itself recognizes the problems that are now facing and has analysed the problems. The sector has made it clear in the Rosenthal Committee that, in the current model, which is largely based on strong export dependence, it is difficult to compete on the market. This is certainly due to the loss of demand from Russia, but the sector has to do with a disappointing demand anyway. The Committee has analysed that this also has to do with the limited distinctiveness of the sector. I think that is a very significant step by the committee. It is really up to the committee to follow up on this. I'd like to wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u49	I would like to ask the Secretary of State's opinion. My question is whether the Secretary of State agrees with my thinking that we should reduce this sector and that we could only work in that context for sensible restructuring. Otherwise, it only means the lifting of old farms, while new stables are being added with new numbers of pigs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u50	In view of the current market situation, Mr Grashoff has made this too easy. It is not primarily up to the government to say that the sector needs to shrink. The sector is under a lot of pressure. The sector is struggling to survive at all, and this certainly applies to a substantial part of the companies in this sector. In my opinion, this is not a simple solution. It is therefore right that the Rosenthal Committee should take the time to come up with solutions. Once there are, there will be plenty of room to debate this with each other. As has been said, this is an initiative of the sector itself. The sector is therefore looking for solutions to this problem. I'll come to the ritual slaughter. Mrs Thieme has called for a ban on ritual slaughter, more precisely on unspoiled slaughter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u51	Let's just get back to the previous point. In his written reply, the Secretary of State responded to the Chamber's adopted motion for a resolution on the German Initiative Tierwohl. Is the Secretary of State prepared to include the drafting of this motion in the Vitale Pork Farming section?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u52	Yes. All options will be examined in this process, so we will do so. As I have said, I come to the ritual slaughter, or rather the unspoiled slaughter. Mrs Thieme has called for a ban. Mrs Dikkers has also said that she is in favour of this. Everyone who has followed the debate on this dossier in recent years knows my personal opinion very well. Mrs Thieme, as I noticed yesterday, has the report of the debate that took place at the time, so if we do not know my opinion, we can undoubtedly get a copy of that report from Mrs Thieme. My view on this is unchanged. However, I also have to deal with the reality, namely the framework that the entire parliament has given to the cabinet. That framework was established at the time in the First Chamber, where a legal prohibition was rejected on principle. That also defines the framework within which I have to operate as a member of the cabinet. That framework was followed up in the covenant on ritual slaughter, which included the agreement to limit the suffering of animals. I want to make it clear that I find the current practice of the ritual slaughter unacceptable. This must be improved. The covenant partners must take steps in this respect. This year, the scientific committee in the framework of the covenant of unintoxicated slaughter examined a number of the results of the research reports, including the report of the NVWA's office. It gave its opinion on this subject. That advice and the progress made with the agreements in the covenant will be discussed first with the covenant partners, as agreed in the covenant. After all, it is an advice to the covenant partners, so it is appropriate to speak first there and then the Chamber gets it. My predecessor had promised the Chamber to inform you by the end of the year how we will proceed with this. Because of my involvement in this file, it's going to take a little more time, also because of the switch. I hope you'll give me that time. My intention is to send a letter to the Chamber at the beginning of 2016 as soon as possible with the results of the consultation in the covenant, my policy line and the consequences, including for the AMvB to be introduced, and to inform the Chamber about the various research reports and how we are going to follow them up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u53	In 2012, Secretary of State Bleker presented the covenant. He promised that this would enter into force quickly and would be published in the Official Journal. He promised that it would be in the covenant that an animal, if it were still conscious for 40 seconds after the neck cut, would receive another shot of mercy. That's about the basis of the covenant. We are now three and a half years ahead and there is still no agreement with the parties, the religious organisations. Three and a half years! I would like an appreciation of the Secretary of State for the fact that after three and a half years there has not yet been a genuine covenant that has entered into force and that nothing has changed in the practices surrounding the unsaturated ritual slaughter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u54	I have just said what I think of the current practice. I also find the progress of the covenant disappointing. I therefore believe that more progress will have to be made. There was an agreement between the government on the one hand and the covenant partners on the other. In the law, as Mrs Thieme well knows, there is an exception to the regular slaughter rules for religious communities. This exception may be subject to further rules at AMvB. The agreement at the covenant was that further agreements would be made on how these detailed rules would look. Those agreements must be made and respected. I will not be able to do so in the short term this year, but I will be able to do so as soon as possible at the beginning of next year. I will be able to resume the conversation with the covenant parties, also with the aim of reaching agreements on how, within the framework of what is now in place, the agreements in the covenant can also be used in rules in the AMvB which should lead to this, because that was the agreement that the suffering of animals in the unwelcome slaughter will be reduced to a minimum, as far as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u55	I know that the Secretary of State is also very critical of the idea that you first let an animal suffer for another 40 seconds consciously while the neckcut has already been inflicted. What added value would it have if you didn't shoot that animal until after? I understand from his answer that the Secretary of State feels bound by the outcome of what the entire parliament, including the First Chamber, has done with regard to unsedated ritual slaughter. I just want to let the Secretary of State know that I will continue with my initiative proposal to ban the unsedated ritual slaughter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u56	For the Acts, we must always keep everything pure. In 2008 I tabled a motion requesting a ban on dirkwelling ritual slaughters. That motion was not supported by the Party for Animals, the CDA, the Christian Union, D66. Even the member Verdonk was against, like GroenLinks and the PvdA, the party of this secretary of state, who was also against. It was said that the Party for Animals had asked for this. We've been asking for this for years. Except we don't make it to the NPO, we don't have any friends there, so I'm not getting a stage there. But I'd like to say this for the sake of purity. I have a motion ready, in which I ask for it, and I have tried it a few times before to ban the killing of animals that are still alive. And intoxication isn't getting anywhere. An animal can regain consciousness. You can't do that. An animal must be dead before being cut or torn open. We live in the Netherlands, which is an animal-friendly country, and we cannot tolerate the fact that medieval and barbaric things happen to animals here. We just shouldn't accept that. And, Mr President, I would like to say here that this has nothing to do with Jews, Muslims, Smurfs or Dutch people: nobody can do that. Nobody!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u57	In the debates I myself had at the time, I was also able to experience the great commitment of Mr Graus. I do not think there can be any misunderstanding about that. I just want to see if I have what Mr Graus means. He says an animal must be dead before it is slaughtered. Of course, that's not possible. The current provision is that in the case of regular slaughter animals must be unconscious before they are examined, i.e. before slaughter operations are carried out. Only the ritual slaughter makes an exception to that loss of consciousness. The intention has been agreed with the covenant partners that loss of consciousness should occur as soon as possible. You have all been able to read in the NVWA Bureau's report that there are serious concerns about this and that the Agency considers measures to be desirable in this respect. I told you, it's not just the House of Representatives that decides. In this case, it was very explicit that the First Chamber has determined what the framework is. In its old composition, it did not approve a legal prohibition on grounds of principle and indicated that it did not fit into the freedom of religion as enshrined in the Constitution. That is the framework within which we operate, and within that framework I will try to reach agreement with the covenant parties on reducing the suffering of animals as much as possible. It's about losing consciousness as soon as possible. These agreements must be made, because an AMvB must also be drawn up and implemented on the basis of the legislation. That AMvB, I'm just saying, just to be clear, will come.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u58	Now I have to compliment the sector, because a chicken butchery told me that just Dutch slaughtered chickens are not always dead when they come out of the power bath. I took action against that at the time. This has nothing to do with Jews or with Muslims. Not at all. It's the animal suffering that matters to me. That's the lead. I believe that this new, fresh Secretary of State must ensure that animals are irreversibly intoxicated before being cut or torn open. It can't be any simpler. We live in a civilized country. I say this with all due respect to all the population groups who say that an animal must be alive. They also use anesthetics. If cocks are circumcised, they'll get an anesthetic, too. If they go to the dentist, they get an anesthetic, too. That wasn't the case a few hundred years ago either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u59	Mr Graus points out how poultry is slaughtered and, unfortunately, there is also something going wrong. The problems at the regular slaughter also have my attention, just as they had my predecessor's. I agree with Mr Graus: we want to remove unnecessary suffering from animals everywhere, and that is why we are also looking at alternative opportunities for the power bath. In 80% the slaughter takes place after alternative forms of stunning. I would also like to realize the last 20%, because there is still too much going wrong with the infamous power bath. It is still too common for chickens to be conscious at the time of slaughter. I share that ambition with Mr Graus. Secondly, he asks that all animals should be unconscious at the time of slaughter. As I said, my opinion on this is well known. You can read it in the report of the debate at the time on the unspoiled slaughter, but the First Chamber has ruled otherwise. The First Chamber has ruled that the exception provided for in the law must remain in it. This limits the framework within which I can act to agreements with the covenant partners and the AMvB to be drawn up on the basis of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u60	During the debate on the ritual slaughter, a motion from my hand was also adopted on banning the tilting box. That was four years ago. It still hasn't been executed. Does the Secretary of State want to carry out that motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u61	It seems to me that it is best to continue this debate at the time when the Court has the opinions of, for example, the Scientific Advisory Committee which advised the covenant partners. The Court receives this advice as soon as it has been discussed with the covenant partners, because the advice is addressed to the covenant partners. It seems to me the right way to discuss it there first before we send it to the Chamber. On the basis of that opinion, I think it would be good to continue this debate with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u62	That is a strange figure, because the Chamber has voted in favour of it by a majority. That can just be carried out. The predecessors of this Secretary of State also said that they would put this into effect. In practice, little has so far been achieved. It's just not being carried out. We've been four years. If you leave it to the covenant partners, I'm guessing what the outcome is. Apparently, there is some kind of great resistance to carrying out that motion. So again, is the Secretary of State prepared to implement the wish of the majority of the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u63	It is not a strange figure, because Mr Van Gerven will also understand that the Scientific Advisory Committee has also looked at this and that the Committee is considering this in its opinion. On the basis of that opinion, I think it would be good to discuss with each other in general how we proceed with the ritual slaughter. After I have had the conversation with the covenant partners, I will inform the Chamber as soon as possible. Then I will also indicate how I want to translate the advice into the AMvB, preferably after agreement with the covenant partners. That is the time when we can best continue this debate. That's gonna be pretty soon. I will not make it to the end of the year, as my predecessor promised, but I promised to do so as soon as possible in the new year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u64	I'm trying to bring some nuance into the debate. There is continuous reference here to an opinion of the NVWA's Risk Assessment & Research Programming Office (BuRO). That would have said that there should be a ban on the ritual slaughter of animals, but I read two things in the letter. First of all, we are talking about a ban on the unspoiled killing of animals, but it is also said that there is a good alternative, namely the establishment of proper legislation. I hear the Secretary of State now saying he's choosing the route of the AMvB. The NVWA finally indicated in the accompanying letter that it would opt for a proper legal regime. I'd like to encourage the Secretary of State to continue on that course.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u65	Mrs. Dik says it correctly. There is BuRO's opinion, along with the policy response of the inspector-general, which states that there must be a clear settlement in any case, because the NVWA cannot maintain properly in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u66	For the sake of clarity, this good legislation is the second suggestion made by the Buro, which did not appear in the summary. That makes the discussion a little confusing. But the Buro sees two trajectories. In the end, the Director-General has said: I am voting in favour of this good legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u67	Mrs. Dik says it correctly. In any event, it is clear that the NVWA's conclusion is that it sees too much going wrong at the moment and that it has difficulty in maintaining it. That is why it makes the recommendations as they appear in the report.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u68	In the meantime, I find that we are halfway through the second block. We have four cubes. If we continue at this speed, you will all see the sun rise here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u69	But this is important.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u70	It is a very important subject, Mr Graus. I agree. We still have a mega vote in between. I'll give it all to you for consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u71	Then I don't know if the next subject is going to help very much, because I needed manure. The necessary questions have been asked. Indeed, the introduction of the phosphate rights system is also something on which decision-making is necessary in the short term. Several members of the Chamber, Mrs Lodders, Mr Geurts and Mr Dijkgraaf, asked for the system to be worked out. Let me immediately say that it is a challenge and a complex puzzle. In dairy farming, too, it is also a question of production within framework conditions, which are necessary from the point of view of the environment, because too much manure on the land that washes out to our groundwater as well as our surface water has effects on nature. For dairy farming there are economic opportunities on the international market. There is a lot of demand for high-quality products that our farmers can deliver. These opportunities must be exploited, but production within these social conditions is extremely important if animal welfare is to be taken into account. From these environmental concerns, Europe has set a number of frameworks in the Nitrates Directive. One of these frameworks is the phosphate ceiling. The Dutch livestock sector may produce a maximum of 172.9 million kilograms of phosphate per year. Overstepping this phosphate ceiling means that the Netherlands no longer fulfils the conditions for derogation from the Nitrates Directive. That is an exception, which is directly at stake the moment we go through that ceiling. A loss of the derogation means that less manure may be used on land; Mr Houwers also asked for it. It will confront the entire livestock sector with substantial additional costs that are estimated to exceed EUR 100 million. In addition, 20 to 24 million kilos of phosphate must be processed from animal manure every year and dairy farmers must feed additional fertilizer. The expiry of the derogation will also have an impact on other sectors, as additional cattle manure may result in other types of manure being replaced on the market. Figures from the CBS showed in May that the growth of dairy farming had reached the national phosphate ceiling in 2014 except for one hair. That growth has continued. This increase in the number of cows is inevitably leading to a further increase in phosphate production. Public intervention is, and was, inevitable. That is what the sector itself thought and finds. The system of phosphate rights in dairy farming was announced on 2 July in accordance with sectoral organisations. So that's also the time limit. All growth after that date is at the risk and expense of the dairy farmer himself. For that growth he will not get phosphate rights. The starting point in the design of the system must be to promote ground-boundness and intensification. In any case, the system must not be an incentive for the intensification of agriculture. These two concerns are separate from each other: phosphate is about the environmental problem, but this system also introduces incentives that can push in the wrong direction in other areas. Phosphate duties are a means of securing the phosphate reduction ceiling. At the same time, through such a system, the dynamics in the sector remain focused on further sustainability and innovation. I think it is important to clarify quickly for dairy farming, but this is a complex matter that requires careful action. That takes time, because there are a number of difficult dilemmas on the table. If the phosphate production ceiling is exceeded in 2015, for example, I should like to add that this is likely to result in a reduction in phosphate production and a return to below the ceiling. The law should therefore contain an instrument to allow phosphate rights to be removed. We already know such an instrument in the system of pig and poultry rights. In consultation with representatives of the sector and civil society, I would like to develop the phosphate rights system. Therefore, I do not think it would be wise to anticipate further the implementation of the phosphate rights system today. Let me say the following: Mr Geurts asked for this, among other things, and that signal also comes with some regularity from the sector. We have to be careful not to stack one rule on another. That's what I'm taking into account. That doesn't make it any easier, but that can make the result better. In addition to the phosphate ceiling, it is very important that we strive for a circular economy in which maximum use is made of existing natural raw materials, such as manure. There is, of course, a huge opportunity; let us stress that. Mr Graus mentioned this: there is a huge opportunity to extract phosphate from animal manure and to use it as fertilizer. However, this is not allowed at the moment as a result of the definitions used in the Nitrates Directive. I would like to see reclaimed minerals, phosphate and nitrogen in the form of mineral concentrate, also used as fertilizer substitutes in the future. This is even a more sustainable solution than the current fertilizer, which must be produced with raw materials that need to be imported. I will make an effort to explain the European rules that make this possible. I will therefore call for this to be done by the European Commission. Mr Van Gerven asked me yesterday whether I see monofers as a solution to the problem of manure. Fertilisation of manure contributes to the production of renewable energy via biogas, but also to the achievement of climate targets by reducing greenhouse gas emissions. I am in favour of this kind of smart technological solutions that contribute to the production of renewable energy and to the reduction of greenhouse gases, while at the same time contributing to the future earning capacity of the agricultural sector. The incentive scheme for the production of renewable energy therefore stimulates, inter alia, the production of biogas. I say that monofertilisation is not a form of manure processing, but it can contribute to a better business case for manure processing by producing biogas and making the manure more manageable, allowing further processing and degradation of manure. There, too, are opportunities that need to be explored further. Is encouraging the development of monofertilisation not contrary to the ambition to achieve intensification and increased grazing? That question was actually a bit behind Mr Van Gerven's questions. It doesn't really change that. Cows are also stabled part of the time at pasture. In fact, they are also in the stables for a large part of the year. In addition, manure is collected in the stable. Something must also be done with this manure if there is a surplus of manure on the farm. This manure must be processed; it can be fermented. This can therefore help to solve the problem. In addition to the phosphate problem, the dairy farming sector also faces a further sustainability challenge. Through the sustainable dairy chain, the sector aims to improve the sustainability of dairy farming, including the maintenance of grazing. I would also like to encourage this development further. So I also have the ambition that by 2020 at least there will be 80% grazing cows. Under the direction of the Covenant Weidegang, in which industry organisations, dairy companies, heirs, retail, EZ and Education and Science are represented, it is currently being identified which additional measures are possible and can be agreed by the parties. Finally, Mr Van Gerven asked me to consider the plans of the Dutch Dairy Board and the NMV. I realise that the investment made and the current milk prices are a difficult period for many entrepreneurs, but it remains a fact that the starting position of the Dutch dairy sector is good in the international context. Despite the current situation, this is a good basis for the future. We will therefore include all the plans made in that framework in our deliberations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u72	I heard the Secretary of State say for lunch that there's really nothing wrong with the use of fertilizer. That's right, because we're extracting nutrients from the soil and it's important that we add them. However, the main challenge we face at the moment is to make better use of the large amount of manure in the Netherlands. I am pleased that the Secretary of State now states in his speech that the removal of phosphate or mineral concentrate from manure is particularly important. The Secretary of State states that he is prepared to argue in Brussels that this possibility will be forthcoming, but we have been hearing this for eight years. How is this Secretary of State going to make himself immortal for the sector, I would say, by realising this in the next six months? I know that I may be asking a lot, but the ambition must be more than just to make this discussable, because we have been doing that for eight years and we have not made any progress. Brussels frustrates our innovation. How is this Secretary of State gonna pull this off?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u73	How I'm gonna do it, I don't know yet. But that it is the ambition to achieve it is beyond question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u74	I understand that the Secretary of State will not go any further and will therefore not challenge him any further. However, from the VVD, I would like to tell him that this step really needs to be taken before we burden the sector with all kinds of burdens, which in turn creates negative incentives in the sector. If the costs are increased by legislation and regulation, there will also be more and more of that cow, that pig or that chicken. We need to find a balance in that. In the very short term, we really need a result. I wish the Secretary of State every success. I think we will have the debate on the rest when we have received the next letter from the Secretary of State on the whole manure dossier.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u75	I think so, too. As I have said, I agree with Mrs Lodder that it would be good if we succeeded in taking steps. Unfortunately, Brussels is not always being told by us what to do, but at this point I think we have a really good story. I hope that we can convince the European Commission of this. Mrs Lodders did say that we should do this 'before' we continue to talk about further steps. Unfortunately, we don't have that luxury. We will have to introduce the phosphate rights system. It is very likely that the phosphate ceiling will be exceeded. The official figures will of course follow only in the course of next year, but in view of the developments in the dairy sector, it is very likely that we will then have gone through the ceiling. If we do not show the European Commission what we are doing about it, then the chances of maintaining the derogation are very low. I don't think we can take that risk. The consequences for dairy farming, but also for the rest of our agricultural sector, would be far too great. So we need to take action. I have indicated that, against a number of questions, we are facing a number of dilemmas. We're gonna have to skim phosphate rights, as I said. The date is 2 July, but probably the total production on 2 July was already higher than the phosphate ceiling allowed. We must indicate in the system how we are going to shape it. In a system of phosphate rights, of course, we do not want to introduce incentives that are again countering the ambition to extend, to promote grazing. So we will also have to take that into account. We must also take into account what Mr Geurts said about the ever-increasing regulation. So the ambition is to see if we can put all this together in one system, but I want to be clear, also towards Mrs Lodder: we do not have the luxury of doing anything else before we introduce this system. The system of phosphate rights must be established.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u76	It sounds like music to me when the Secretary of State says we have to go to a circular form of food production. Great! What comes from nature must also return to nature. That's good. But I come to mineral concentrate: fertilisers made from animal manure. So that's much better than fertilizer. I know that there are pilots at European level. How's that going? Can the Secretary of State say anything about that? And shouldn't that be extended to achieve faster results? That seems to me to be very desirable in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u77	Let us agree that in the letter on the phosphate rights system we also give more information about those pilots. It is not so much about the development of technology; it seems to me to be overlooking that. It's about making sure you can use it from Brussels. That's much more important. You can develop the technology, but as long as you can't use it, it doesn't do you much good. It is clear that manure is much more possible than it is now. You can extract minerals from them, which you can use as fertilizer. You can get biogas out of it. In that case, it's a clean energy source. You may also be able to extract energy from the remains. There are several possibilities to process manure and make better use of it. The most important thing, however, is that we get permission from the European Commission to do so. Let us ensure that Mrs Koşer Kaya gets the information she is asking for when we have to talk about the phosphate rights system. That will soon be in the coming year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u78	I will give the Secretary of State the opportunity to return to this in the letter. I'll keep this to myself for now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u79	Do I understand that the Secretary of State does indeed intend to set up the phosphate rights system in such a way as to avoid extensive livestock farmers and to promote intensification as much as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u80	I cannot answer that first question. In doing so, Mr Grashoff asks me to anticipate the establishment. I have indicated what the ambition is. There will be a system of phosphate rights. This was also announced in the letter of 2 July. All the growth that took place after 2 July, let us not dwell on it. It was also clearly stated in the letter that it is at the expense and risk of the dairy farmers themselves. If they have grown after 2 July, they must surrender that growth when we introduce the phosphate rights system. Then we must ensure that we get back below the phosphate ceiling. We will have to answer the question of how we skim it. Such a system can give false incentives for the intensification of dairy farming if you misdirect. We don't want that. Not everyone in this Chamber will find that, but I believe that the ideal image of dairy farming is shared quite widely: land-bound and cows in pasture. I'd like to bring that ideal closer. So I do not want to introduce a system that gives incentives the other way. We will take this into account in the establishment of the phosphate rights system. I cannot say exactly how we are going to do that at the moment, because I would be farther than we are now. We're looking at how we can do this as best we can.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u81	That's good to hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u82	I'm glad you're happy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u83	In the first period, I have put forward five issues on which commitments have been made, but where implementation is not yet there. That went from barn check to connection statement. I am now taking one out, namely equivalent measures for fertilising. I read in the written reply that this is being prepared. I am still pleased with that, but I am afraid that this is not expected to be implemented until mid-2016. Then the 2016 manure season for arable crops is just gone. Can't this go any faster?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u84	If it could have been quicker, there would have been another date in the written reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u85	I think that's a bit of a quick answer. I also have a problem with the young farmer scheme. Your predecessor promised us that this would happen in 2015. Now there is an extension to the first quarter of 2016. I see a certain line emerging. All these subjects, I have mentioned five of them, are being pushed away. Does this have anything to do with capacity in the Ministry? Where's the problem? These equivalent measures are extremely important. All the reports are there. Where's the problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u86	Mr Geurts mentioned the young farmers' scheme. It is a responsibility of the provinces to open it up. You can always appeal to me, but your party also has a number of delegates, and they are very willing to act in this regard. It is ultimately the delegates in the provinces who are responsible for the opening up of that scheme. My predecessor has already indicated that we can and want to support this. We'll be in touch about that. As I have also stated in writing, I expect to be able to inform the Chamber very soon about the opening up of the system. Here too, cooperation with the delegates is very good. If Mr Geurts appeals to me again in the future, it would be nice to talk about something that I am really talking about. Otherwise, he'll be able to contact the deputy he probably knows. Once again, cooperation on this issue is very good. I trust that we will be able to report back to the Chamber on this in the near future.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u87	This has not helped young farmers. By the way, there is also a problem with the Rijksdienst voor Onderneming Nederland. It has to adapt all kinds of things in order to work out this system. I asked why it takes so long with those equivalent measures. The manure season of 2016 is gone. Then it can only be used in 2017.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u88	I will come back to that in second place. That sounds good to me. It is well known that we are working on this as soon as possible. Mr Geurts has just said that young farmers have not been helped, but I think they have been very helpful in saying that this scheme is finally being opened up. The intention was, of course, to open her up earlier. As I said, I hope I can inform the Chamber in the near future that it will be drafted. This arrangement is the responsibility of the provinces; that is the case. We have just offered our support to speed up the opening up. I think that is very helpful to young farmers, as I say to Mr Geurts. Mrs. Dikkers has asked questions about the pasture slaughter. Those questions are actually also about natural food and shorter chains. It is a good example in itself: nature farmers selling the meat of their animals. As Mrs Dikkers said, this has had good experience in Germany. I also see an opportunity for the Netherlands. A small-scale pilot project has therefore been approved to test the innovative methodology for small-scale and regional meat production with added value for animal welfare and meat quality. This concerns the small-scale slaughter of cattle on the yard. The advantage of this is, of course, that animals do not need to be transported alive. The pilot will examine the benefits of less stress in terms of animal welfare and meat quality. According to the planned design of the initiator, the total chain, including processing, distribution and retail, is held in one hand. Of course, this will have to comply with, among other things, food safety standards. The meat is then placed on the market as a regional niche product with added value for transparency.You know where it comes from for meat quality and for animal welfare. At the end of the pilot, it will be decided whether the structural application of this method is possible. It looks at the results achieved and European developments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u89	When does the Secretary of State expect this project to be evaluated? We are curious about the deadlines.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u90	I mean in the course of the coming year, but I will come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u91	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u92	I shall deal with fishing and the obligation to land, which concerns many fishermen because it formally takes effect on 1 January. Sustainability is also being pursued in the fisheries sector. The landing obligation will be introduced from January, but it will be phased out. The landing obligation prevents fish from being thrown back into the sea. Several Members of Parliament, Mrs Lodders, Mrs Dik and Mr Dijkgraaf, have expressed their concerns about this. Let me first say that there is a good reason for the new obligation. So far, fishermen are throwing the unwanted catch overboard. That could go up to 40% of the catch. These are fish that are too small to be marketed, but also species that produce less and that the fisherman does not want to take to the mainland. Let me give you an example: in sole fishing, plaice and scare are also caught. We Dutch are quite a fan of that, but they bring much less to the market. Plaice and dab are then thrown back, while in itself they are very useful fish. The obligation to land is intended to make fishing more selective so that this type of catch of unwanted fish by the fisherman is avoided as much as possible. I am aware of the enormous consequences of this change in European policy. It is very important that we make the implementation practical and that we find room for this within the existing frameworks. Like my predecessors, I take that up with the sector. Things have been achieved. A phased, step-by-step introduction has now been agreed for the period 2016 to 2018. The sector will therefore have time to adapt. For example, plaice does not have to be landed as from 1 January, but only in 2018. This gives the sector the opportunity to carry out scientific research into the survival of discarded plaice, small sole or scar. If this survival is sufficient, an exception may be made for this species in the specific fisheries. The Netherlands has also received a de minimis exception for small undersized sole in the targeted sole fishing with the beam trawl, because it is practically very difficult to sort out undersized tongues. There is also a de minimis exception for undersized lobsters. In addition, the Netherlands has made a successful effort to ensure that other problem species, such as cod, are brought under the landing obligation as late as possible. Because of the tight quotas, these species could otherwise ensure that mixed fisheries are closed prematurely. This has made the implementation of the landing obligation for 2016 much more practical than was feared. We'll keep our finger on the pulse and keep talking to the sector about things he's running into. Mrs Dik-Faber has asked how we are going to maintain. Europe lays down minimum requirements for monitoring at sea and on land. The practical implementation of the audit is a national competence. This also applies to the whole of the common fisheries policy and, therefore, to the obligation to land. A level playing field is very important in this respect. The NVWA therefore consults intensively with the other Member States in the regional groups on the enforcement of the landing obligation. The audit agencies shall draw up a joint opinion for a harmonised audit. The first important step was to discuss how fishermen should register their by-catches on board. Fishermen indicate that they are particularly concerned that they cannot convince foreign inspectors who come on board that they are registering according to Dutch rules. The NVWA has therefore promised that all fishermen will receive a letter indicating in four languages the Dutch method of registration, which is aligned with the other countries and with the European Commission. Mr Dijkgraaf asked if we could postpone the landing obligation for six months. That's not possible. It is a question of European legislation, which must also be complied with by the Netherlands. I don't think there's any question of delay either. I know fishermen still have concerns about the registration of the undersized fish. I also understand these concerns, but I do not share the view that the registration is not in order. Indeed, ICT systems still need to be adapted, but in the meantime, the NVWA is working with a system approved by Europe in which the by-catches can be recorded. The government can simply receive this data and can be reported on it to the European Union in Brussels, as the regulations also require from the Netherlands. This system already works and is already being used for the pelagic sector from January this year. In addition to working on a practical implementation of the landing obligation, I would also like to explore how we can ensure that the fish that must now be landed can produce a good price. This requires commitment from the sector, but also from retail and marketing. I'm willing to pick up that glove with the sector, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u93	Too bad. We had asked for a six-month delay, not to postpone it but to postpone it, including for the sector's support. The only reason for this is that the administrative systems are not yet in place by 1 January. I do not think that you can ask the sector to introduce the landing obligation by 1 January. Then the systems must be in order. That is why I call once again on the Secretary of State. We are not calling for a postponement, but for a postponement, so that it can be introduced when the system is in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u94	I have indicated that we are working with a system approved by Europe in which the by-catches can be recorded. So the systems are in order. ICT systems are still being adapted for the future, but the system as it operates now is functioning well. It can just be used. There's no reason to delay. I have already indicated that we have managed to achieve a much more important postponement. Schol as by-catch, for example, does not need to be landed between now and 2018. That gives time for further research into the survival of plaice. If this proves that survival rates are high enough, the European Commission could then be consulted on an exception to the existing rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u95	If you look at demersal fisheries, those systems are not in order. Demersal fish are fish that swim just above the bottom. Fishermen don't know what they're up to right now. Systems do not work and we ask for a postponement for this type of fishing. I hear the Secretary of State and we're gonna try a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u96	It's a European rule. Europe decides whether we have to comply with it. We have to comply with it on 1 January. Furthermore, I have indicated that the systems that are now being used are in order. The current systems have been approved by Europe. By-catches may be recorded. The government can receive this information and report on it to the European Union, as required by the Dutch regulations. This system already works and is already being used by the pelagic sector. It can therefore also be used in the demersal sector on 1 January. There is no good reason for the postponement, even if what Mr Dijkgraaf said is true, that ICT systems are being adapted for the future. The current system can comply with the obligations from 1 January. I would just like to stress that these are commitments which are less far-reaching than they were feared.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u97	However, there is always a difference between "can be met" and "are actually workable." One of the examples I have received in any case is that the NVWA does not know the bin "varia" on board. This would mean that for all different fish that there are more than two hands to count, a tray should be available. This is an example of executable versus workable. My question is about controls. I hear the Secretary of State say that all ships receive a letter in four languages which states what fishermen must comply with according to the inspection as it has been done in the Netherlands. What are the differences that require this letter if skippers get a foreign control?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u98	As I indicated, we have sought and gained scope in consultation with the European Commission. We register in our own way. We have just talked about the systems. It is important that foreign inspectors can also understand what the specific Dutch agreements are and how the Dutch registration works in order to verify that those rules are indeed complied with. That's why ships receive letters in multiple languages to explain to foreign inspectors how our system works.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u99	I ask the question because the Netherlands would not be the Netherlands if we did not make things a little more complicated. I have also indicated this in the first term. I ask the Secretary of State to clarify the difference between the different Member States. I can also imagine Dutch inspectors visiting foreign ships. I would like to receive an overview of the differences between an inspection by the Netherlands and other Member States in relation to what Europe is asking us to do. You don't have to do that now, but you're allowed to do it through a letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u100	We will have a general discussion next week on the December Council of the Agriculture and Fisheries Council. Fishing is very prominent on the agenda there, as the Chamber knows. I'll see if I can get that overview in there. It's an ambitious time schedule, but we're gonna try to make it work. That's how I got to the end of the second block. The third block is about better food. I have already indicated that our future is in quality. We were good at that, but we're getting better and better. We grow vegetables with more flavor. Look at our innovations in the field of tomatoes. We used to be criticized for that, now we have an example. Our meat distinguishes itself from meat elsewhere on the market. Dutch products are stronger on the international market if they distinguish themselves better. Innovation, the search for new solutions, plays an important role in this. I have already indicated that I saw in South Africa how strong our position is in this area. In this block, I come to speak about the role of green education in it, about export opportunities, about food patents, biotechnology, the regulatory burden, the future of the common agricultural policy and the transparency of subsidies. Several spokesmen have asked about green education, including members Van Gerven, Geurts and Dijkgraaf. The cabinet attaches great importance to the strength of the so-called golden triangle....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The government also attaches great importance, of course, to the quality of green education. In September, the Chamber received a letter in which two reports gave a vision of sector education. In it we read the strengths of our green education, which is characterized by the strong link between education and research. This leads to the flow of knowledge and its exploitation for the top sectors and society. It is highly practical, with learning and working in current business situations. It is also small-scale, because the human dimension is being used and we know a nationwide training offer. There is also a vertical education column, with continuous learning lines and cooperation between vo, mbo, hbo and wo. It is also strongly focused on internationalisation and significant for and often leading the way in promoting education and knowledge about sustainability. Knowledge and innovation are the driving forces behind the competitiveness and success of the Dutch agro-industry. A strategic multi-annual development agenda for 2015 to 2025 is of great importance for the future-proof positioning of the green education model within the system, as well as for the green knowledge system. Renewal will lead to structural improvements that will also enable the target of EUR 33 million to be met from 2016. We need to shape them together. I want to get to the table quickly with green education and business to get to work on this. This also applies to the Wageningen University, which the SP asked for in particular. With this university I will discuss the conditions and conditions within which qualitative and sustainable growth can take place. The motion-Van Meenen c.s. calls for preparations to be made for the transfer of green education to the Ministry of Education. Let me put it first: no matter what choices we make, I think it is particularly important that the achievements and qualities of green education are preserved. I will inform the Chamber as soon as possible, in consultation with my colleague from OCW, how the cabinet will follow up on the motion adopted. I now come to the international export opportunities. Internationally, the Dutch agro-sector is very well regarded. There are opportunities for distinctive products. I would very much like to join Mr Graus' call for "Made in Holland" to be used more strongly as a brand and to use quality labels. For example, pig farming says that we should have a more distinctive quality label for products from the Netherlands because this would help on the international market. The Dutch competitive position is particularly benefiting from open markets. Mr Graus asked how the government is going to profile these national interests. For example, we do this with missions to existing and potential markets. Our commitment is mainly to export knowledge and innovations about fairer, more natural and better food. I believe that this is where our future lies, as I have stressed a number of times. The higher quality standards will also distinguish our food in export from that of other players on the world market. This helps to further strengthen our agro-sector. It is the ambition of the cabinet to contribute to the eradication of hunger and malnutrition. The Netherlands is internationally leading in the field of food production. With knowledge, the Netherlands can contribute to major challenges, such as responding to climate change, both in terms of knowledge and innovation and in terms of sustainably produced food. For the next one and a half to two years, I will make every effort to do so. Finally, I would like to thank Mrs Thieme for the DVD Cowspiracy she has offered me. Unfortunately, I didn't get a chance to look at it last night. Mrs Thieme is not here, but Mr Wassenberg is listening. The film was programmed on 15 December in the department's largest hall. All employees are invited to watch the film.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u101	Is the DVD still in your gift register, or doesn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u102	If he meets the requirements, you will certainly see him in them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u103	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u104	I want to thank the Secretary of State. You don't just have to give acidic reactions, you also have to give a nice reaction once in a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u105	Every once in a while, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u106	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the commitment that we are going to promote "made in Holland" more. There are also more Frauen Antje. We need a lot more Frauen Antje. When I asked the MPs if they wanted more or less Frauen Antje, everyone said more. With the minister of State, Secretary of State Dijksma, I talked about the need for a Frau Antje academy to represent our country more. Frau Antje is the most famous Dutch person in Germany; she is more famous than Rudi Carrell, Linda de Mol and André Rieu. I know that a high-ranking official under the Secretary of State, Mr Hoogeveen, would like to lead academy in his old age. I'd like to recite it right here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u107	I'm sure he'd appreciate that. Without madness: Mr Graus wants us to stand out in exports. Yesterday he gave a number of examples. I found it typical that he mainly gave examples from Switzerland. He was talking about the Swiss watch. For example, the Netherlands is world famous for its cheese. I think that we should also consider in the future how we can help to make quality Dutch products internationally distinctive through branding and marketing. We can help to develop quality labels for that. Of course, this is primarily up to the sector itself, but we can always support it. We'd be happy to. However, I would like to emphasise that we are a very modern and progressive country and that we are looking for a distinction here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u108	I also mentioned Dutch products. I even said the Chinese are gonna knock each other's heads in for our milk powder. I gave the Swiss watch as an example. The Swiss put on everything: made in Switzerland. Everywhere you see the Swiss flag on it. They take advantage of that. When you buy a piece of cheese, you always see that little flag on it. We're not doing enough. That is what I was referring to with the Swiss example, but I could have given many Dutch examples. I could have gone on all night. If the chairman's gonna let me, I'm gonna be able to give you the whole thing, but I won't. I just wanted to explain why I mentioned the Swiss movement and the German automobile industry. The Swiss and Germans are much more proud of their products than we are of ours. I'm glad the Secretary of State is going to do something about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u109	I understand very well. The Swiss have, of course, long-term built up a very solid image that they can build on. We can also build on past achievements and on the quality we are known for. That's what I'd be happy to do. I think there are many more opportunities for the future. I would like to thank Mr Graus for the work he has done in this respect in his term. That's what we're gonna do. I will deal with the questions that have been asked about biotechnology. That is always a somewhat precarious subject, because on the one hand it offers opportunities, but on the other hand it always leads to social concerns. Whatever happens, it must always be safe for humans, animals and the environment. We see that in genetic modification of plants, among other things. The Netherlands has a "yes, if safe" policy on genetically modified plants because of the opportunity that biotechnology can offer for food security, food quality and sustainability. Mrs Lodders mentioned the University of Wageningen's programme for sustainable resistance to phytophtora, in which potatoes are made resistant to this potato disease through cisgenesis. This is an example of such an application under Dutch policy. She asked what my agenda is on this point. It won't be much different from my predecessor's. The status of new processing techniques such as cisgenesis is unclear. The European Commission has announced that it will present a legal analysis of these techniques this year. I will, like my predecessor, support clarity in Europe about these techniques and for exemption from cisgenesis from genetic modification regulations. As I said, it offers opportunities, it can contribute to issues such as global food security and sustainability by providing crops that are resistant to disease, drought or severe rainfall. We must all take this into account in the context of climate change. Or it could be crops that offer consumer benefits, such as a longer shelf life of products. On the other hand, however, we also see that industry has linked this type of technology mainly to the sale of plant protection products and to the ownership of seeds and plants. That is a development that I do not always think is positive. That also means that there is a lot of debate about these kinds of developments. I think that a nuanced debate on this issue is important, and we are looking closely at the opportunities of this development and also taking seriously the concerns of society about it. I come to speak on the common agricultural policy. The new CAP period has just begun, and the first wishes for the next period are already there, and rightly so. Mrs Lodders kicked off this debate yesterday by calling the European agricultural policy bankrupt. That is, of course, a definite statement, but I assume it is intended to stimulate the debate. I agree with a number of comments made by Mrs Lodders. For example, I agree with the fact that the sector is very dependent on CAP money. We are also talking about large sums of money. This represents 40% of the EU budget. We can expect something in return for that, too. Several parties in the Chamber yesterday indicated that there was a desire, and perhaps the need, to change the common agricultural policy. I'd like to join in on that. I share Mrs Lodder's ambition, among others, to continue the transition from income support to support for innovation. Of course, this also includes sustainability. Innovation and sustainability can also help us to tackle the most pressing problems in the world. I call it feeding a growing world population, climate change and also scarcity of raw materials. I would therefore like to see in the coming period whether more money can not be invested on innovation, which will also give farmers more room to invest in order to make their businesses more future-proof. In any case, when I am President of the European Agriculture Council for the next six months, I will start discussing the future of the common agricultural policy. I would like to raise this subject at the informal Agriculture Council in May. We shall also consider the desirability of a mid-term review of the current common agricultural policy. So we are going to talk about this in the context of the Presidency and on the basis of the review of greening in 2017. I look forward to that debate, because I, like a majority of the Chamber, see that there are opportunities for improvement. I would also like to focus on a further greening of the CAP. It has been a major step towards linking a large proportion of income support to social value, but we still have to look at the effectiveness of this measure. The Dutch commitment to this greening was to fill it with ambition, a good balance between economy and ecology and no greenwashing of resources. Reports by the European Environment Agency, to which Mr Grashoff has also referred, are critical of the impact of the greening measure. I, too, see opportunities for improvement. That is why I supported a project last month that challenges the sector to come up with ideas that can enhance the ecological effectiveness of greening, both for the current CAP period and beyond. I would also like to say that I am also committed to the earlier decision of the House of Commons on the motion by Mrs Dik-Faber, which makes it possible to fill in ecological areas of concern with catch crops. I see that most of the entrepreneurs have chosen to do so, probably because the sowing of catch crops has already been done for compensation. In the Netherlands the greening is monitored. For the purpose of the review in 2017, this will be reported to the Court in the course of 2016. How it works in practice remains to be seen, but the expectations are not very optimistic. The possibilities offered by the Netherlands for completing the ecological focus areas can be adjusted annually. If it turns out that the present wording is not enough, then we must take action on it. Finally, a comment on the simplification of the common agricultural policy. It must ensure that the money actually ends up in the places for which it is intended. Steps have already been taken, as was the wish of the Chamber to make it easier to do so, but we are not yet there. Simplifying the whole is also a key issue during the presidency during the next six months. We must work towards a more modern CAP, but also a simpler CAP. I will draw attention to this during the informal Council. I hope that this will be a starting point, including within Europe, for further discussion on the common agricultural policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u110	I'll come back to the genetic engineering issue. The Secretary of State stated that a potato resistant to phytophthora was developed via genetech. Does he know that there is also a non-gentech variant that can produce the same property? So we really don't need genetech. Can the Secretary of State ever reflect on the position of Rijk Zwaan top of the bill in the Netherlands in the field of crop breeding which says that we do not need GMOs at all in order to achieve proper processing and optimum production?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u111	The question is not always whether it is necessary. I just talked about cisgenesis, which can help you develop properties that you could also realize in a natural way. The fact that it is not necessary is obvious, because that is inherent in cisgenesis. It's about whether it's allowed. It is allowed; we have a "yes, if safe" policy in the Netherlands. This is included.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u112	I'm gonna take it a little wider. I know, of course, that cisgenesis is allowed, but it is about which direction we should go. Should we continue with what we have traditionally been particularly good at, namely natural processing? Or should we go in the direction of gentech, so more the foreign or the American variant? We are now engaged in a first debate with the Secretary of State, also a somewhat fundamental debate. Can he reflect once again on the idea of one of our top entrepreneurs, who says that we don't really need genetech for the advancement, food production and feeding the world as well as possible? We can do very well with what we have, but we must do something about the plant variety right. Would the Secretary of State like to say a few words about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u113	I have just said that it has rightly been said that we do not need cisgenesis, because it is based on the natural properties present in a plant and which can be introduced more quickly into the crop by gene technology. However, this could also be achieved by means of processing techniques. Mr Van Gerven's concern, if I listen to him correctly, also has to do with the debate on plant variety rights versus patent law. I'm not in favour of patenting the natural properties of plants. I think that is also widely shared in the Chamber. During my presidency in the next six months, it will therefore be my commitment to continue the discussion at European level and to get more support for our position. Such examples of genetic engineering offer opportunities, but make use of something that we can also achieve naturally. The debate is more complicated when it comes to transgenesis. That is why the concerns are much greater.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u114	I would like to return to the common agricultural policy, not only at Dutch level, but also at European level. Sustainability and innovation are the two key concepts used by the State Secretary. I want this not only to be done at Dutch level, but also at European level and in relation to the subsidy we receive from Europe. This should be directly linked to it. I understand that this is not enough in the common European agricultural policy. My second question is: is there transparency? You'll get to that in a minute. I will wait patiently for that, but my first question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u115	Transparency is my next topic. I've kept this apart for a while, although it's interrelated. The first question, if I may summarize it, is whether European subsidies are sufficiently focused on innovation. No, and of course that has everything to do with where the policy comes from. The European common agricultural policy was, of course, originally intended to promote production and guarantee farmers' incomes. For many years we have been discussing whether we can move this towards sustainability, greening and promoting innovation. The new common agricultural policy has, of course, taken a step in this direction. This is evident, for example, from the point of view that income support is no longer related to production but to the number of hectares you have. This is an advantage for extensive companies and a disadvantage for intensive companies. There is also the obligation to greening, which is part of the basic package, but also the rural development programme POP3, with both greening and innovation as an objective. In this context, Europe also provides scope for more focused budgets. We are partly making use of this opportunity. This could be done more on the basis of European rules, and less on the basis of European rules. I think it is right that, in the course of next year, we should continue this discussion, for example, in the context of the informal Agriculture Council, because it is also my ambition to bring this discussion to an end at that Agriculture Council, especially in the direction you, as well as Mrs Lodders, have pointed out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u116	It is a good thing that this debate is taking place, but I would also like to see it as a condition in the European common agricultural policy, because then you will be able to control the objectives. We can't do that for now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u117	"As a condition," I see as a substantive ambition, given D66's views on how Europe should develop. I never saw that we would be in a position to make conditions. That would seem like a luxury position to me. I assume you mean that we have to go that way in substance. Now, of course, greening is a condition to some extent. I have just said that there is a possibility of discussing the extent to which it actually achieves the objectives that have been set.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u118	I'm sure you know the term "getting the currants out of the porridge," just taking out the tastiest things. That feeling creeps me a little bit in the reaction of the Secretary of State; I hope I am wrong about that. Why the currants from the porridge? I have indicated, in particular in order to open the debate, that the common agricultural policy is bankrupt. I wholeheartedly share what Mrs Koşer Kaya said. I also indicated that in my first term. In the 1980s, French farmers were stuck and compensated for this. At the same time, I mentioned the example of Dutch farmers: a farmer who is not allowed to use 5% of his country for the cultivation of his crops. The Secretary of State can see as one of the currants that we need to focus more on innovation. We share that, but it cannot be the case that farmers receive less income support if such bizarre examples are not removed from the rules. I missed that in the Secretary of State's speech. I would like to get some clarity, vision, direction on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u119	Mrs. Lodders suggests that that is regulation. That's not true. It is a condition of eligibility. You get money, tax money, from the EU, and in exchange for that tax money, the EU says: "Then we expect you to cooperate in achieving a number of societal goals. One of these societal goals is greening. If you cooperate, you can achieve this by using at least 5% of your land for this purpose." That's not necessary; that's not an obligation. If one does not want a subsidy, one does not have to meet it, but then one should not apply for a subsidy. It's a condition for subsidy. It is also logical that if you receive subsidies, a number of social demands will be made. As far as I am concerned, these social expectations of sustainability and greening are beyond question. I believe that we are also making more progress on the part of stimulating innovation, which is in the interests of the individual farmer as well as of us as a country, and certainly for the European Union as a whole, if we are to succeed. I see that there is also the possibility of further strengthening the CAP.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u120	Then my concern becomes a little reality: it cannot be that you get the restriction from Brussels that you can no longer use 5% of your country. I think it is perfectly normal that there should be compensation for this. As far as the VVD is concerned, we're gonna substantially recalibrate that budget. We do not want this kind of ridicule to be imposed on farmers. Let us make a real commitment to innovation after we have substantially adjusted the budget. French farmers, as well as Spanish and Italian farmers, have plenty of hills where nothing is happening to promote biodiversity or sustainability. They are then introduced as the 5% of arable land that is being used for sustainability, with 0.0 results, while we are going to withdraw highly productive agricultural land from the production of crops. I wanna get rid of that. I wanna get rid of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u121	That was clear to me, but I thought: at least I am taking over part of Mrs Lodder's speech. The objectives pursued by the common agricultural policy have, in part, shifted from just income support to social objectives, to greening and sustainability. Promoting innovation is also one of the possibilities, albeit limited. Mrs Lodder rightly criticises the fact that it is much easier for farmers in some other countries to meet the greening conditions for this subsidy, because there are by nature elements in the landscape that cannot actually be used and which can then be included in the commitment to greening. For Dutch farmers it is sometimes more difficult to meet the conditions. Mrs Lodders presents it as if you have to abide by the rules and be compensated for them. It's the other way around. You get money from the EU and in return the EU says that you have to meet a number of conditions regarding greening. You can also get subsidies for sustainability and innovation. I want to further promote the direction that has been taken, as the direction of the CAP is changing towards greater commitment to social goals and greater commitment to innovation. We will be discussing this with each other sometime in the spring.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u122	I wholeheartedly agree with the Secretary of State that flat income support has had its longest time and that we must get rid of it, that we must go to compensation for a certain achievement, a performance that has social added value. That is, after all, the only justification for spending social money on it. So far. This has now been achieved for a small part through the greening component in the first pillar. It has been established at European level that it is almost completely ineffective. There is not yet a one-on-one conclusion about the Netherlands, but it does not seem as if we are the white raven in this. Can the Secretary of State explain to me whether the greening part of the first pillar is now being applied effectively in the Netherlands? Does he expect it to actually contribute to the restoration of biodiversity?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u123	I have just said that a motion has been adopted in the Netherlands by Mrs Dik-Faber that the greening could be used by sowing catch crops and that these were actually things that were already taking place before the introduction of the new CAP. So the CAP has not necessarily led to a change, although it was, of course, the intention of the new European policy to achieve an improvement. Of course we can discuss this. Let us enter into this discussion with each other when we talk about the evaluation, in which we see whether we are achieving what we wanted to achieve. What I said was also the discussion about a future CAP period. The first discussion we will have on this is in spring, in preparation for the informal Council. Then we are not all discussing how we can proceed with sustainability and greening, but also, as far as I am concerned, about further strengthening innovation in the sector. It would be a good thing if we also used the money to support farmers who want to strengthen their business operations, who want to be at the forefront of innovation. That is what resources are already being used for. This can then lead to further discussion as to whether everyone is satisfied with this. I am thinking here of manure processing or manure fermentation. Of course, there are other forms of innovation that can help Dutch farmers to take the step towards the future and strengthen their business operations. I would like to focus on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u124	That seems fine for the new CAP period, but that is not my focus right now. I would be sorry to let a complete CAP period slip through our fingers. Does the Secretary of State see the possibility of using the flexibility that exists in the first pillar of the greening section more effectively for greening purposes, read biodiversity? If so, how soon can we do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u125	In Europe or in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u126	In the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u127	Mrs Lodders has made it clear that some countries need to make much less effort. There will be another evaluation and we will discuss this further. Then it is up to the Chamber to hold the debate. In the past, it has also had debates on how to implement this. Mrs Koşer Kaya asked whether the transparency of subsidies could be increased. I can tell her that I think that's important, too. The Netherlands has been a pioneer in the debate on the disclosure of agricultural subsidies for a long time. As early as 2005, we started publishing the agricultural subsidies paid from the European agricultural funds. We do this on the basis of the Public Participation Act. Since 2007, all Member States have been obliged to disclose the beneficiaries of agricultural subsidies. According to current rules, names, addresses and residences are published, as well as the amounts received and the arrangements under which the grant was paid. This already ensures the necessary transparency. At the same time, the rules on the protection of personal data must also be respected. The government can't just publish everything. It is government policy to disclose grant information as much as possible, unless privacy legislation opposes it. At present, everyone can gain digital insight into the European agricultural and fisheries subsidies provided free of charge. What I also want to see is whether I can make public the control data on the use of RVO and NVWA or the European Commission. I'll inform you about that before the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u128	For a moment I thought it was going to be the same straw as before, but I understand that a step is being taken now. Can the objectives to be achieved with these subsidies also be included? If that's the case, I'll wait for that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u129	We are, of course, taking that with us. Mrs Koşer Kaya says that a step has been taken. I'll see if it's possible to disclose the control data. I'll inform you about that before the summer. Of course, we do not do this if we do not intend to do it if we can. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u130	That sounds so minimal again, when I was so happy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u131	I'm trying to keep you from getting too much expectations. We're gonna see if we can do it. The intention is to do it if possible. I'll inform you about that before the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u132	I wasn't finished with my interruption, but I'll come back to this in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u133	Concerns have been expressed about the regulatory burden. The cabinet encourages a healthy business environment in agriculture and horticulture, including by reducing regulatory pressure and by pursuing a level playing field in the European context. Mrs Lodders and Mr Geurts have asked me how I look at the burden burden on the sectors and what steps I am going to take to comply with the agreements of the agri-industry government agreement. I shall begin by saying that the cabinet attaches great importance to reducing the regulatory burden on citizens and businesses. An amount of EUR 2.5 billion has been earmarked for this purpose. The cabinet reports twice a year to the House of Representatives. Part of the progress report is an annex containing an overview of measures that have an impact on the control pressure. In the 2015 Spring Report, concrete measures totalling 2.37 billion were presented. From the completed reduction, 1.35 billion has actually been realized until 1 April 2015: 777 million for companies and 572 million for citizens and professionals. These figures are currently being updated. This will be addressed in the autumn report. This will be sent to the Chamber before Christmas. In general, the Cabinet encourages a healthy business environment in agriculture and horticulture by reducing regulatory pressure and by seeking a level playing field in the European context. In the agro-industry, in cooperation with the sector, a tailor-made approach is being developed to reduce the regulatory burden on areas that are perceived as hindering themselves. This approach also serves to implement Mrs Lodder's motion on rules. My predecessor briefed the Chamber in spring on the content of and steps taken within the agri-suitable approach. We are currently working with industry on the implementation of the bottlenecks identified. The first of these has been solved, such as the one on sand-gravel tearing and the sowing of tagetes, which is allowed earlier in the season, so that lily cultivation can take place. In early 2016, together with the business community, it will be explored whether a new inventory round is needed. In this context, I would like to point out that rules also benefit our entrepreneurs, for example the conditions for exports of agricultural products in the veterinary and plant health fields. This is very important for our position in the world as the second exporter. That sometimes gives us credit abroad. It also reflects the desire of industry itself to deviate from European regulations and to make more tailor-made work possible for the Dutch situation. I would like to give an example of the derogation from manure policy, which allows us to use more manure than is required by the European directive. This is also the case with the identification and registration of clubs, where the reporting period is shorter than the European one.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u134	The Secretary of State gives a reflection on the figures in response to the ambition in the government agreement, the 2.5 billion. Can he tell us how much of the 1.35 billion that has been made available to the agricultural sector?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u135	No, I can't do that. I knew I was gonna be interviewed today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u136	I asked the question yesterday. I'll help the Secretary of State. In my view, the conclusion is that, at the end of this year, if we are reported or informed by the Minister, the agricultural sector or the whole of the LNV branch has performed the worst. So we're a long way from here. My question to the Secretary of State is to send an immediate reflection on the actualization that we get and to specify the regulatory pressure from Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u137	I can't promise right now. If Mrs Lodder asks if I would like to do so in the course of 2016, a reflection on what has been achieved and what is still in the pipeline, I can promise.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u138	The first quarter of 2016 seems like a great deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u139	Let's do that. Try it. It's gonna be crowded in that first quarter of 2016. Then I come to nature policy, the fourth block: a greener Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u140	Excuse me, Secretary of State. Mrs. Fat, what can I do for you?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u141	Mr President, I apologize. I waited all the way to the end of the block because I failed to ask about the aocs in green education. I have listened carefully to the way in which the motion is being carried out. Yes, he'll be back in the Chamber. That's what I'm waiting for with interest. I would also like to hear what the Secretary of State thinks about the cuts in the aocs as included in the coalition agreement. It seems to be about innovation money, but this affects the basic cost. It really yields up to over €1,000 difference with the funding of the regular MBO. My group does not really think that we should explain this. I'm very curious to see how the Secretary of State looks at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u142	My predecessor sent a letter to the Chamber in September which addressed the various investigations into the level of funding. The Court concluded that the level of funding for green education was comparable to that of the regular MBO, after this task. That letter also states that we want to establish a multi-annual development agenda for green education. I have just said that I would like to table this development agenda with green education and business as soon as possible to see how we can complete it. I believe that it is possible to achieve the savings contained in the government agreement and thus in the multiannual budget. That is the financial framework that we are assuming.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u143	Of course, it sounds nice that a development agenda is being worked on. In addition, a motion was adopted in the Chamber to bring green education under OCW. Those are all promising perspectives. However, the discount will start next year. The Secretary of State says that this does not make any difference, but I have some calculations in my mailbox. It compares, for example, training at the aocs with training as a street maker. This results in a difference of €1,500 per training spot. A comparison between training at an aoc and training as assistant veterinary surgeons results in a difference of €1,700. So these are substantial differences. I just can't explain that next year the aocs, so our green education that we're very proud of, will be sent out with that big discount. So there are nice perspectives and there is movement...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u144	It's clear, Mrs. Fat.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u145	... but next year that discount will go in. That needs to be solved.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u146	No, that discount needs to be filled in. That discount has been in the budget for a number of years, and next year it will go into effect. Of course, there are always differences of funding between different types of training. They are always there, and that applies to the whole field of education. In the letter of September, however, Mrs Dik was able to read the conclusion that the AOCs are on average at the same level of funding per pupil as is usual in the MBO. That is the starting point. Together, with green education and business, we will look at how we can also fulfil this task in the context of the development agenda. I do not think that is the case with the motion tabled by Mrs Dik-Faber together with Mr Van Meenen and Mrs Lucas. I will return to that motion, along with the Minister of Education. If it were the ambition of the Chamber to transfer green education at any point in time, then we should consider how we can at least guarantee the preservation of the benefits of today's green education. Institutional discussions are often held. I believe, however, that we should focus on the question of what exactly this green education has given such a strong position. And what has the Dutch agro-industry, working with this green education, given such a strong position? Why is this cross-pollination working so well? In any case, we will have to look at how we can ensure that that position remains so strong, no matter how you resolve it institutionally. I would like to point out, for example, the small scale of the aocs. How can we guarantee it? I am also discussing this with my colleague, the Minister for Education. On the basis of these discussions, we will return to the Chamber to clarify how we are going to follow up on the motion that has been tabled. However, this is independent of the targets to be fulfilled next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u147	We're going to the fourth block, Mr Secretary of State. It's 4:40 now. I'm still sending in a round of the first deadline at 5.30 p.m. The votes scheduled for then will take about two hours. It would be worth a lot to me if we could have completed the first deadline before we vote. So I hope that we can keep it short and pointy on both sides.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u148	That should work, I'm guessing. Nature policy has literally been designed in recent years. My predecessor has identified over 100 natural areas in the last three years. I'm gonna keep pointing that out. That's gonna get the basics straightened out. That basis must be sufficiently solid to be able to build with society nature that matters. It must also be nature that we can experience, for example in the national parks, but also outside. It must be nature that we can use and as a result want to protect. The nature vision found that the nature policy that has been pursued for many years has not proved effective enough to achieve the biodiversity targets. Mr Wassenberg asked me what responsibility I take on. I want to continue the approach chosen in the nature vision. On the one hand, I am working on a solid foundation of, among other things, a National Nature Network and effective nature legislation. About the realization of such a National Nature Network agreements have been made with the provinces in the Nature Pact. I regularly discuss the progress of this with the provinces. Cooperation with the provinces is going well. That's why I don't think there's a need for a stronger direction. In fact, I believe that this would also be considered undesirable by the provinces. On the other hand, more than before, I am contributing to an improvement in biodiversity, through, among other things, promoting green entrepreneurship and nature in conjunction with, for example, health, water policy and energy policy. The crux of the new approach is that responsibility for a better nature must be a shared responsibility. Yesterday Mr Van Gerven went to the microphone several times to notice that the surface of nature is declining in the Netherlands. The first progress report of the provinces on the implementation of the Natural Pact, which I recently received from the IPO, shows a clear increase in the acquired and equipped nature network between 2011 and 2014. During this period about 11,500 hectares have been acquired and 25,294 hectares have been furnished. There is therefore an increase in the Dutch Nature Network. This means that the implementation is well on track to achieve at least 80,000 hectares of extra nature in 2027. What Mr Van Gerven could refer to is the seventh progress report of the major project EHS for 2014, which seems to indicate a decrease in the acquired surface nature network. However, there are different definitions. I will consult with provinces in order to arrive at a uniform system. I believe that Mr Grashoff asked for this in order to clarify this matter to the House at a glance. Before the summer, I come with a letter to the Chamber in which it will become clear. In 2016 we will start with a new system for agricultural nature management. Central to this is a focus on promising areas and implementation by collectives of farmers. It is becoming more effective and should also be more effective. We do this through cooperation between farmers, through more room for local expertise in the implementation of management and through a concentration of resources where they can have effect. It also becomes more efficient: we go back in the number of grant relationships from 14,000 to 40. A great deal of work has been done in recent years by collectives, provinces and implementation organisations to make the new system possible. We have been able to interest the European Commission in these approaches. The Commission has adapted its own rules for this purpose. The farmers in the collectives, in particular, have made a big change. Self-employed entrepreneurs have started thinking and working together in the common interest. Civil society organisations are increasingly involved in collective plans. The collectives have done a great deal, but the system is new to everyone: for farmers, for collectives and for governments. Everyone has to learn how to work with it and how to get the best out of the system. I agree with Mr Grashoff, who said that resources should be used effectively and asked if there could be an ex-ante evaluation. Area applications are tested against the targets in the provincial nature management plans to ensure effectiveness. On the basis of the grant decision, the collectives draw up their management plans, setting out the concrete management measures by individual farmers. In early 2015, Alterra analysed the extent to which the provincial design nature management plans contribute to the effectiveness of the new system. As a follow-up, in consultation with provinces, Stichting Collectief Agrarisch Natuurbeheer and civil society organisations, a targeted ex-ante evaluation will be carried out on the expected effects of the management plans submitted. With these conclusions and experience, we will continue to improve the system and its effectiveness. We call that learning management. When we encounter collective problems, they can count on them to find a listening ear and a helping hand in provinces and empire. Mr Wassenberg asked me why I was cutting back on nature, but spending more money on nature subsidies to farmers. We're not cutting back on nature. This period has been an additional investment in nature. An important goal of nature policy is to protect our beautiful landscapes, our unique nature and our vulnerable animals. Some of the species for which the Netherlands has an international obligation are mainly found outside Natura 2000 and the Nature Network Netherlands and depend on agricultural areas. Think of the meadowbirds, about which I come to speak separately, and the fieldbirds. In order to create the good living conditions for these species, management by farmers is necessary. In order to carry out that management, they receive natural grants. Mr. Chairman. I am here to talk about the meadow birds, but in view of the positions taken here in front of me, it may not be wise to do so immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u149	I have asked if the Secretary of State agrees with the government agreement, which is expressed by the Prime Minister that we will fully implement the main ecological structure. Does the Secretary of State still support that? He says that I have come up with figures showing that the amount of nature is decreasing and that he himself has figures showing that it is increasing. I don't want to fall into a well-nuke game. There has to be clarity about it, because Natural Monuments also ring the bell at this point. In addition, the seventh progress report indicates a decrease. I would like to know what is happening and whether the Secretary of State wishes to achieve the main ecological structure with 728 500 hectares.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u150	Those are different questions at once. Mr Van Gerven asks if I agree with the coalition agreement. Of course. He asks about the main ecological structure and what we are doing now. Mr Van Gerven knows this: that is the realization of the Dutch Nature Network. I said that before the summer we would clarify the figures and that we would consult with the provinces on clear definitions, which would make it more comparable. The figures show that the amount of nature is increasing, while from the report I mentioned, you could deduce that it is decreasing. This probably has to do with a difference in definitions. We are going to deal with this and come back to it before the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u151	Then I assume that the full plan, which was formulated in 2012, is called "Ecological Main Structure" or "Nature Network The Netherlands," as far as the State Secretary is concerned, will be implemented with the help of the provinces.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u152	The Netherlands Nature Network is something to which the provinces and I are committed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u153	I have a few questions about the last block. This is due to the speed with which the Secretary of State marches through the subjects.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u154	I try to slow him down all the time, but there's no keeping him.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u155	I am very encouraged to do so by the President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u156	We also spoke yesterday about biodiversity. A number of reports have been published which show that things are going badly and that the Netherlands is lagging behind in drafting all kinds of European rules. The identification of Natura 2000 sites has been slow. What has also been slow and still slow is the connection of nature reserves, which is very important. On a number of nature reserves that lie as separate stamps scattered throughout the country, you don't have much. They need to be connected, otherwise plant and animal species will die out. The connection is really crucial. Nature policy stands or falls with that. I also asked for a strong leadership role from the Secretary of State. This has to do, among other things, with the fact that nature reserves are often located in other provinces. That's what the government has to send on. The Programmatic Approach Nitrogen started on 1 July 2015. In June North Brabant prepared a number of rules to impose strict rules on livestock industries in certain cases. This has been done in the deepest secrecy to prevent all kinds of requests from being made. Well, that's a preventative one, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u157	Are you heading for a question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u158	Yeah, now I'm gonna go to my question. In the end, North Brabant has set strict rules. The space that was created was immediately filled by Limburg companies that were in the same border area and that have filled the development space. What was won in Noord-Brabant was immediately destroyed in Limburg. Is there not a need for stricter coordination and direction of the government?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u159	That was a long question, which contained several questions. I hope I succeed in doing them all right. Mr Wassenberg felt that the designation of natural areas was slow. I believe that we are working very hard on it. I will continue the line of my predecessor. There are certainly still natural areas to be identified, but great steps have already been taken. Furthermore, Mr Wassenberg says that separate nature reserves are of no use to you. I wouldn't say that. They are good for nature and people have a lot of fun in it. He's right to say it's okay if they're connected. That is the ambition of the Dutch Nature Network. We are trying to achieve this together with the provinces. I have already said that we are all very committed to this. Mr Wassenberg asks for a strong direction. That's not how we organized it. Provinces and Empire work together. That cooperation was excellent among my predecessor, and I certainly intend to continue in this way, precisely because we need each other to realize the ambitions that Mr Wassenberg is talking about. He also referred to the PAS. This type of development is taken into account in the PAS. If space is created in one place, it can be filled in in another place. That's the idea. It is up to each of the provinces to agree on this, if one considers that the activities of the other have too much effect on the activities of the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u160	Yeah, but the PAS is also meant to reduce nitrogen, right? If one province says it wants to reduce nitrogen, while the other province thinks it has room to add extra nitrogen, then the area is not making any progress at all. That's what the PAS was for, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u161	The PAS is meant to achieve two things side by side, namely the protection of nature and the prevention of overfertilisation by the precipitation of nitrogen, but also to create room for economic development. Let me give you an example: cars are becoming cleaner and less nitrogen oxide is being emitted. This can create room for other economic activities. The PAS is also meant to prevent our country from closing, because we only look with the eyes of nature conservation. The intention is precisely to make both nature and economic activities possible, so that nature protection can go hand in hand with creating space for economic activity. That is the objective of the PAS.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u162	The Secretary of State has responded neatly to the agricultural nature management and the control in the provinces. I can imagine how such an answer would come about. That will undoubtedly be true in a strictly formal sense. And yet serious signals reach me that there are provinces, but that doesn't apply to all the provinces that run the risk. That's pretty simple, 'cause those collectives are new. If there's only one nice plan of these collectives, we'll say yes very quickly and then we'll issue a permit soon. Then there is the assessment of the provincial nature plan, but that is a document that is written on the main lines, not a very fine plan. When it comes to what exactly you are doing about agricultural nature management, you cannot or hardly can seriously weigh that, so that is very soon good. I think we have a parallel interest. The Secretary of State will not enjoy it if within a year the criticism of the brand new agricultural nature policy is the same as on the previous one. It's not easy to get it effective. I don't have a ready-made solution, but I'm asking the Secretary of State to consider what kind of way you're gonna get a hold of this. I fear that in a year's time we will find that the effect is too small.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u163	Mr Grashoff also asked for an ex-ante evaluation. I have already said that this is the stake and that it is being worked on. I think it is too early for criticism, because we are now moving to a new system. This ex ante evaluation is intended to be part of the assessment of plans. That could take Mr Grashoff's concern a little away in advance. Let's face it, the new system will start on 1 January. It is perhaps premature to criticize a system that has yet to enter into force. Let's see if that's gonna work. I have faith in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u164	I'm not early, but I'm seeing something going on right now. This planning is now taking place. The system will start on 1 January, but there are provinces that have already granted permits. The Secretary of State says that an ex-ante evaluation will be part of the process, but then the first year is lost. We're going to start a new growing season from March. Then it'll be relevant, but we've missed that. I think it is a huge missed chance that this test is not already part of the procedure. I would ask you to ensure that it is inserted into the procedures in good time for next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u165	I understand that, but I think the Provincial States are also the place to have this kind of debate. If Mr Grashoff thinks that the ambitions of some provinces are too weak, then there must be fellow party members in Provincial States who can discuss this. It's not my place to sit on every single province all the time. That is not the way we work together. We work together in the trust that we share our ambitions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u166	I would like to ask a follow-up question about this. Yesterday I asked a particular question about the possibility for provinces to adjust in the meantime. In the written answers I read: "Years the province and collectively discuss the progress in implementation. On this basis, it is possible to adjust management within the framework of the grant decision issued.' I imagine that the grant decision at least includes the possibility that the Provincial States of the Republic of the Republic or the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Slovenia will be able to adjust the implementing act if its effectiveness is not what it should be.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u167	That seems to me to be the case, but I do not quite understand what Mr Leender is asking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u168	Perhaps the Secretary of State could, in his discussion with the provinces on this subject, consider whether the grant decision offers sufficient scope to include such adjustment options. Indeed, the replies state "within the framework of the grant decision'. The grant decision is therefore very important in giving control to the provinces.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u169	Of course. If you have issued a grant decision and you want to adjust it in the meantime, you must have indicated it in advance, otherwise you have no legal basis for it. If Mr Leenders asks me if I want to bring this to the attention of the province, I say that I can always do so. I suspect the provinces are also listening to this debate. They'll be reminded of that. We can always do that again, as I say to Mr Leenders. The meadow birds are an integral part of our beautiful meadow landscape. It was not for nothing that I thought about that in my introduction. Not only does Marsman think back to the Netherlands when he was abroad for a while, but many think of the Netherlands: the green meadow landscapes, the water between them and the cows in the meadow. The meadowbirds are part of that. However, their numbers have been falling sharply for years. In fact, that reduction is so severe that we have to worry. Together with farmers, nature organisations, provinces and other interested parties, I would therefore like to make every effort to reverse this trend. Therefore, a broad-based plan of action should be prepared for the summer of 2016 in which the next steps will come back. 1. The effectiveness of current management needs to be increased. I therefore ask Alterra to identify in the short term what you should do for a healthy population of meadow birds and what ambition is feasible. 2. We must bet on farmers of tomorrow. This also imposes requirements on the organisation of the business. More attention should be paid to agriculture and nature in the curricula of green training. Together with the province of Friesland I finance the setting up of a lecture on meadow birds by the Hogeschool Van Hall Larenstein. We need to look for system innovation. It is necessary to give action prospects to farmers who want to do grazing bird management, so that it becomes attractive to integrate grazing bird management into management. Mr Grashoff asked how I would be able to finance grazing birds out of the 30 million that the Netherlands received from Brussels in the context of the dairy farming situation. This 30 million is used by the Netherlands according to the three traces of sustainability dairy farming, vitalisation of pig farming and manure processing. Discussions on the concrete implementation of these links with the sector and the European Commission are still ongoing. It is my commitment to include grazing bird management in the package. Mr Grashoff's question as to whether the European Commission will approve the use of these funds for grazing birds, I can certainly answer yes. The Commission has now confirmed this. Production that also focuses on public support, such as grazing bird management, strengthens the market for such a product. The management of grazing birds thus fits within the framework established by the European Commission. I've now arrived at the Fitness Check of the Birds and Habitats Directive.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u170	I was walking fast to the interrupting microphone, because I thought, "It's not gonna happen to me again that I'm late." I wanted to go further on the meadow birds, also because they have everything to do with the block on agricultural nature management. The Secretary of State says there's gonna be a plan and we're gonna see what we're gonna do. But I think we should start by determining why the meadow bird is so bad. All the reports, including the recent report Living Planet of the World Wildlife Fund, show that we have a very intensive mowing policy here with three times a year. Furthermore, we have a monoculture of grassland, where there are few flowers and herbs and therefore no insects and no food for the meadow birds either. We've got a lot of poison in here. We have an intensive livestock farm. This is also cited by the World Wildlife Fund, where the WNF says that everything here is covered by nitrogen, which reduces species wealth and therefore the number of meadow birds. I would like to hear a response from the Secretary of State to the question of whether we can protect these meadow birds if we do not change the whole agricultural policy in a rigorous manner.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u171	It strikes me in this debate that the response of the Animal Party is always that the whole agricultural sector needs to be organized in a completely different way. That's not always an equally promising perspective. You need to see if you can integrate the protection of meadow birds into the management of agricultural holdings. In my letter I indicated that this will not be easy and that there are no simple answers for protecting the meadow birds. That is why I am using the approach that has been adopted and I would like to support it in the budget, also using EU funds. However, we have not found the egg of Columbus. So I ask Alterra for a reason to show what a healthy population of meadow birds could look like in the Netherlands. I don't think we'll be able to go back to the numbers we once had, but I do want the size of that population to be healthy. I do think that we should turn the tide, in any case because of the intrinsic nature value of meadow birds, but also because they belong to the Netherlands. I therefore believe that we should be ambitious in this. Mr Van Wassenberg is right that these ambitions are difficult to achieve, but if he says that a completely different agricultural system is the only way to do that, it does not seem realistic to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u172	This is a bit of a you-bowl, because it's not just the Party for Animals calling out. All experts say that too much is being mowed, that too much poison is being used, that there are too many monocultures and that the place is suffocated by nitrogen. Those four points change, I call a rigorous approach. It is very faint to say that only the Party for the Animals wants to change that. No, these are expert advice. They say we're gonna have to do that if we're gonna help those meadow birds and nature. This also applies to agricultural nature management. That can be fine, but as long as we use our land in such an intensive way, it makes very little sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u173	Yes, but I would point out that there are also experts who point to the predator population, which has increased in recent years and has an impact on the status of meadow birds. There is therefore more to be involved than the influence of agriculture. For this reason, we ask Alterra to present a picture of what a healthy population is and what measures would be needed, and possibly, because you have to look at it. Of course, this also means something for the way farmers deal with their country. Farmers have the special position in our society that they not only run a business, but also manage our landscape, which we all enjoy. We've already had the discussion on this. We are also funding them for this role, partly from European funds. There are opportunities to strengthen funding in this area, also because this entails changes in the management of farms: mowing at a different time, mowing differently, perhaps allowing part of the country to be used temporarily for grazing birds. All these options need to be presented and translated into existing practice, but I am not saying this for nothing to the farmers of tomorrow, the young people who are in training. This must therefore be anchored in green education. We do not just want to protect meadow birds for the next few years, but we want to preserve them for the future for our country.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u174	Although it is quite a complex issue, we should not make it more complicated than is necessary. There are excellent examples in which meadow bird management is integrated into existing agricultural operations. The Bird Protection works with about 100 meadowbird farmers. Fortunately, they are doing very well in this area. However, it is also a question of means. It's a good thing the Secretary of State has ambition. It's a good thing he's getting Alterra to do some more concrete work. However, bird protection experts also say that you must have a core area of about 70,000 hectares for grazing birds. By the way, there could be cows there. This means, however, that we farmers will at least have to pay for the loss of crop yield. That will go hand in hand with it. With the farmers there is no rack to pay this out of their own wallet. That requires considerable resources. Is the Secretary of State prepared and able to steer very cleverly and effectively towards the CAP funds in particular, in order to ensure that enough money is spent on grazing birds in the coming years?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u175	Then, of course, it is always the question of what is sufficient. The commitment is to make substantial use of European money for this purpose, precisely because it strengthens the farms concerned. Farmers must always take account of the environment, nature, society's wishes for the landscape. They know best themselves. This also gives the opportunity to help farmers and to pay part of their costs. So I don't want to miss that opportunity. It is my intention to use some of the resources for this. We will talk to the sector about this. It's always the question how much you need if you want to do it right. Let's get a look at that through the investigation. For example, we work together with the province of Friesland in the financing of the lecturerate for a reason. This, too, is an effort that we must make together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u176	I welcome the answer and the ambition that it expresses. I assume we'll talk again when the plan of action comes. I hope the Secretary of State is prepared not to wait until the end of June. Maybe he can say something about that. At the end of June it will also be within the first half of 2016, but I hope it will come sooner, so that we can talk about it earlier, at least before the summer recess. Furthermore, I am confident that we will get out, possibly with some support in our backs. I have already announced an amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u177	It is the most beautiful in itself when we can talk about it in the months in which the meadow birds are most visible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u178	Indeed, I think it is very good that the Secretary of State is quickly considering the request made by GroenLinks. I think we'll get a lot of requests from the individual grutto for a GPS system to find that 70,000 hectare meadow. Let's not fool around, before we take action, we need to do some research. That is crucial. I sprinted forward, because again I think that the focus is very much on the nature part and too little on all kinds of other aspects. I ask the Secretary of State to state that there will be a balanced investigation, including the various predators and wildlife plans and so on. I'm asking him to include all these things before money is actually spent.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u179	That's two different things. That research is indeed so wide-ranging. That's the idea. The aim is to visualise what a healthy population looks like and what it takes to reach and maintain that healthy population size. It is inescapable that resources are needed for this. If we get funds from the European Union that we can use for this, that benefit farmers and that help us to achieve this ambition, we would be crazy not to take advantage of that opportunity. That's what we're talking to the sector about. As soon as we have more clarity, we will inform the Chamber. That is our common ambition.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u180	Those are indeed two different routes. The Secretary of State is now talking about the means to resolve the crisis in livestock farming. When a farmer has to buy a GPS system for a nest, that will never be 100% subsidised. So he will have to contribute himself, and that will increase the cost. At least there's that element in there. I would like to pay particular attention to this. Some of the spending of money from Europe, the national envelopes of 30 million, is very good, depending on what I hear in the media, but the money really has to be used to resolve the crisis in livestock farming.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u181	As I indicated in the commitment to the European Agriculture Council, it is not our intention, unlike that of a number of European countries, to spend the money, because that will ultimately yield nothing in structural terms, but rather to contribute to the structural strengthening of the sectors. This is also evident from the use of resources: part for dairy farming, part for pig farming and part for manure processing. The aim is to support developments that strengthen the sectors. One of these developments applies to dairy farming. There is continuous social attention to meadow grazing that is part of the conversations as well as for nature management, landscape and meadow birds. On the contrary, it gives us the opportunity to support dairy farming in playing that role. The ambitions we have for the meadow birds can indeed cost farmers money. Mrs Lodders is right to say this. We now have the opportunity to make use of at least part of it from Europe. I think it's a good idea. We will discuss this further, and as soon as the talks are concluded, the Chamber will hear from me. Then I come to the Birds and Habitats Directives. In our drive to protect nature as well as possible, we in Europe have so focused on conservation that there is hardly any room for changing natural values. We are in danger of losing sight of the bigger picture of the environment that is a healthy, natural environment for humans, animals and plants..................................................................................................................................................................... It doesn't benefit nature. That is why I will ask for a more flexible and future-proof implementation at the Fitness Check of the Birds and Habitats Directive. Achieving the nature goals is my priority and is not under discussion. It is necessary to improve implementation through flexibilisation, taking into account the different circumstances in the Member States. I aim to optimise the implementation of nature policy within the existing directives. That's the goal. Mr Leenders asked me to sign the letter sent to the European Commission by several European colleagues. That letter states that the directive must remain exactly as it is. Our aim is to find flexibility within the existing directive. However, to say that no adjustment should be made at this stage would anticipate the conclusions of the European Commission on the fitness check and that would not be appropriate to the evaluation process. I would add that the Netherlands will be President of the European Council for the next six months and that it would not do our Presidency any good if we committed ourselves in advance to the outcome of this process. Our intention is to do this. I've already said this... flexibilisation. As far as we are concerned, the protection targets are not under discussion. It's just about the implementation, and more flexibility could help. We strive to remain within the current directive, but we do not exclude it. The final report is expected in January 2016 and the working document containing the Committee's conclusions in the second quarter of 2016. The Netherlands is organising an international conference during the Presidency on strengthening implementation with greater flexibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u182	So far I have been very satisfied with the answers given by the Secretary of State, but I am a little less so. He stated in his written reply that the objectives were not in question and that improvements should be sought in the implementation. We fully agree with that. What we want even more, however, is for these directives to remain in place themselves, including the 18 and 23 articles respectively. We want this because it is precisely these directives that have proved to be the problem, not the problem, but its implementation. Nine Member States asked in a letter to maintain those directives and to look for improvements in implementation. Seven of the nine European groups have done so. We are left behind as a Member State, while we are already the worst boy in the class in achieving European nature goals.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u183	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u184	If we are not able to sign that letter or write and sign such a letter, then we're gonna smash it, will we, Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u185	I don't agree that we're the worst boy in the class. I will also remember for another debate in which Mr Leenders asks for an evaluation, which is his view that I must say in advance that no matter what comes out of the evaluation, we will not change the policy. I do not think that is the way to deal with an evaluation. The evaluation report has yet to be published, in January. I find it strange to anticipate the conclusions by now. I have indicated that we also have substantive reasons to talk about the way in which the directives sometimes work out in the national situation. Our commitment is to resolve this within the existing directive, namely at implementation level, but I think it is appropriate to await the outcome of the evaluation. Then we can discuss this. Certainly from the role played by the Netherlands as President, it seems to me to be a decent position, even in relation to all the other Member States. That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u186	There is a lot of unrest in Dutch society, especially in field-managed organisations that stand at the bar to take on the implementation. They want to continue with that and want to do so with a lot of passion. They feel uncertain about this and would very much like us as a Member State to give the signal that we do not want to interfere with these directives. This does not lead to any obligation for the European Commission; it can still do what it wants. I note that seven out of the nine groups in the European Parliament do. I find it strange that the Netherlands does not want to go along with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u187	Those nine Member States will not be Presidents for the next six months. That gives them a slightly different position in this kind of discussion. There's no need for uncertainty. I have made it clear that the protection objectives are beyond us and that we will not interfere with them. The level of protection will therefore certainly not deteriorate as a result of the outcome of this evaluation. Mr Leenders says that parties are concerned about this, but they really do not have to worry about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u188	It seems that the Secretary of State is calling the Birds and Habitats Directives into question. The previous Secretary of State made it quite clear to me that I do not now have the quotation that the directives would not be affected, but that the effects should be improved. Does the Secretary of State support the line his predecessor drew?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u189	I do not have the quote with me either, but what I said is almost literally what my predecessor said: the commitment is to do it within the existing text of the directive and to make improvements at implementation level.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u190	Does the Secretary of State say that the directives, together with the annexes, remain in place, but that matters in the drafting are dealt with differently? Did I get that correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u191	Yeah, that's the bet. The discussion just now was about whether I would like to sign the statement that no word of the directive should be changed, but that goes too far. The commitment is clear: we want to leave the directive intact and make improvements at implementation level. We are waiting for the evaluation and we will have a proper debate on this within Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u192	Yesterday, in my first term, I referred to the report by my European colleague Annie Schreijer, entitled Land in de knel. Will the Secretary of State undertake to respond in writing?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u193	I thought we might have a debate on this, but if Mr Geurts would like a written response, I will send it to the Chamber. That's more convenient in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u194	We've got two more dots to go.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u195	Yeah, I'm getting to the point of nature volunteers. Mr Geurts and Mr Leenders have asked if I am prepared to make a transitional arrangement for nature volunteers. My commitment, as also laid down in the National Nature Vision, is to work together on nature and landscape. The use of volunteers is very important. Supporting volunteers and voluntary organisations is now being done by both the Empire and a number of provinces. I believe that it is in line with the nature pact to make the direction of this more and as much as possible with the provinces and I am in consultation with the voluntary organisations and the provinces. I would first like to wait and see if a transitional provision is desirable and necessary. My final point is about the project Marker Wadden. Mr Geurts asked whether the Marker Wadden project could be used for a transition to a sustainable energy supply. The project Marker Wadden is primarily a nature project for the cabinet. I welcome, however, the combination with other functions. An initiator for reed cultivation as a transition to sustainable energy supply can address the initiator of the Marker Wadden, namely Natuurmonumenten, and the manager of the Markermeer, namely Rijkswaterstaat. I am prepared to consider this as an innovative solution that also offers opportunities for the export of natural inclusive solutions. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to the end of my fourth block. Do you think it is desirable that I now respond to the amendments, or do you want me to do so in the second term? I can then give that reaction at the same time as my reaction to the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u196	It is customary to do so in the first term. You'd be doing us a great service if you could.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u197	Then you cross the 5:30 clock.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u198	Yeah, but we're gonna be okay. I know you can do that very quickly. First of all, there is a question from Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u199	I don't remember the Secretary of State talking about the veterinary forensic team I asked for. I went to get a stuffed cake all the time, so I may have missed it. The previous Secretary of State, Mrs Dijksma, has promised that she would take it, but I have never heard of it again. I'd like to have a reaction to that. I have also tabled an amendment on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u200	I would like to come back to that in the second term. I believe that this issue is more in the area of security and justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u201	That's good, but I'd like to give you an explanation. That subject isn't with V and J. The Dutch Forensic Institute, which is indeed subject to V and J, no longer does anything for animals. That's why I'm asking you to support the NVWA, the Animal Police and the National Inspection Service for Animal Protection. Take the horse executioner now. If they're gonna get caught, there's gonna be forensics. There is currently a veterinarian and a pathologist who volunteer to do so, but they want to work structuralally. That really requires the support of the Ministry of EZ.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u202	I understand the question. I wrote it down, too. I'll get back to you in second term. I come to the amendments. Several amendments have been tabled from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u203	We count fifteen, some of which have been renumbered. So we have to be careful that we have the right songs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u204	With these amendments, several Members of the House are putting together several tens of millions within the Agriculture and Nature budget. With a single exception, coverage is taken from the non-legally compulsory part of budget Articles 16 and 18. Let me be clear: at least that is not so big to cover all these amendments. Technically, it's possible. I note, however, that the amendments generally provide for general coverage. It is said that you only find it within the non-legally compulsory part. I also think it is very strong when it is indicated from the Chamber where that non-legally compulsory part is located. What activities should then be deleted? In view of the tight and increasingly declining budget budgets, it simply means that painful choices must be made and that, if this House adopts such amendments, existing policies on which there are expectations in the sector or on which some administrative agreements have already been made will be undermined. It could, for example, be at the expense of encouraging sustainable stables and a post on Article 16. It could be at the expense of animal health and animal welfare. That's also a post on Article 16. It could be at the expense of achieving a nature vision, a post on article 18. Or it could be at the expense of natural enterprise and green deals. If you write down 'you can cover it from the non-legally compulsory parts of Article 16 or Article 18', this is not without consequences and I hope you yourself have those consequences in mind. It is good that we realise that. I shall begin with Amendment No Dik-Faber/Slob in part No. 68, about green education. This is accompanied by an amendment to the budget of OCW, in part No. 18. This last amendment was strongly discouraged by the Minister of OCW. I do not recommend the amendment to item No. 68 to this budget on the basis of the same considerations, but you will not be surprised. The financing of the green MBO, as we discussed earlier in the debate, is similar to the funding by OCW of secondary vocational training. As I mentioned earlier, the strategic development agenda we announced in the letter of 15 September offers sufficient scope to cope with the loss of resources through structural improvements. I am convinced that this development agenda will ultimately contribute to strengthening the green MBO. On 26 October, the Chamber received a report on funding from my predecessor and the Minister of OCW. This validates the calculations made by Berenschot on behalf of the AOC Council on the financing of green MBO. I told you, the basic cost of the green mbo is almost equal to that of the ordinary mbo. I therefore reject the amendment. The Van Gerven amendment to item No. 70 is about the Member. The contribution of EZ to the Member has already been substantially increased in recent years, from €300,000 in 2011 to 1.6 million structuralally now. In addition, the police have seconded three agents to the Member to relieve the member temporarily. This is funded by the Ministry of Security and Justice. Work is currently under way on the establishment of a new animal enforcement agreement, setting out the cooperation arrangements between NVWA, Member and police. To this end, the current agreements are now being evaluated. It is only when the new agreements have been made that it can be seen whether this will have consequences and, if so, which ones. That is why I believe that a further increase in the Member's budget is premature at the moment. That is why I do not recommend the amendment. The Van Gerven amendments to item No. No 72 and No 72 respectively. 73 I accept together, because both amendments have the same content and purpose. The change in nature policy is laid down in the nature vision. It's widely endorsed by the Chamber. The result of the nature vision is that provinces have been given a greater role in nature management and that many responsibilities have been transferred to the provinces. The role of the government has thus been reduced. Another important component of the new nature policy is the space available to citizens and businesses for initiatives. Just outside nature reserves and on a smaller scale, there is still progress to be made. This policy, included in the "nature vision" and "natural enterprise and Green Deals" posts, focuses specifically on stimulating natural entrepreneurship. These are natural initiatives by citizens and businesses, sometimes together with the government, which are jointly financed. On the other hand, the aim of the amendment is to launch and finance large, cross-border nature projects from the government. This is contrary to the view of nature adopted by the Chamber itself. I attach importance to sticking to this new course. So I see the amendment as a step backwards, which undermines the basis of that new course. That is why I do not recommend the amendment. The Van Gerven amendment to item No. 76 deals with animal testing-free alternatives. The Chamber received from my predecessor on 1 November the progress report Plan of approach animal testing and alternatives. As her reaction shows, we support the idea of the think tank for the creation of a fund of experimental animal-free innovations. It indicated that it was willing to bear the start-up costs of this fund, provided that private parties and public-private parties will also commit financial resources. I'll take that for granted. These other parties are now on the move. I will talk to these stakeholders, such as the research laboratories, the universities and the health funds. The resources in the budgetary reserves, in which you want to find cover, I say to Mr Van Gerven, are reserved for specific purposes. These are reserves that have been specifically held for expenditure whose precise timing is difficult to predict, but whose size may be significant. Examples include compensation for agricultural guarantee schemes and financial corrections from the EU. For example, on 30 October 2015, the Chamber was informed of a correction proposal of EUR 52 million for fruit and vegetables from the European Commission. It is precisely for this purpose that such guarantees are intended, i.e. on the basis of both content and coverage that I recommend this amendment. Then I come to the amendment to item No. 83 of Mr Wassenberg and Mr Thieme. It's also about animal testing. The Minister for Economic Affairs has set up the Top consortia for Knowledge and Innovation (TKIs). The Minister of EZ signed the 2016 and 2017 innovation contracts with the top sectors on 5 October. It is up to these TKIs to make the best use of the TKI payment scheme in public-private cooperation projects. In doing so, it is essential that the TKIs be free to use the funds of the supplement scheme within the approved programmes. If you now, as this amendment seeks to replace, reduce and refine animal testing in advance, you are hindering the top sector to make its own programme. It is up to the Top Sector Life sciences & health to determine how these resources are used. The top sector has now explicitly included the topic of animal-free innovation in the knowledge and innovation agenda. Since the amendment is therefore contrary to the system of the TKIs, I do not recommend the amendment, but it is not excluded that the top sector itself should take such an initiative. It's already in the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u205	Mrs Thieme, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u206	Because both the cabinet and this Chamber have regularly indicated that we need to make real progress in replacing animal testing, we would very much like this not to remain non-binding, but that the top sectors are really working on this. Hence this amendment. I would like to explain that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u207	I told you, this is what the top sector is working on. This also happens without this amendment, Mrs Thieme. You are amending a budget which has been agreed with the top sector that it itself is making plans for it. That's what the top sector is doing. The subject of animal-free innovations is already part of that plan. I think that you are being served by the top sector yourself, but taking away the top sector's budget is really not appropriate and it goes against the agreements made with the top sectors, so I stand by it: I do not recommend the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u208	It's not stolen, it's ear tags. We have followed industry top policy in recent years, and we have seen too little investment in replacing and refining animal testing. That is why we believe it is important that these resources should now be earmarked so that we can really speed things up. It's not being picked up enough from the sector itself. This is also evident from all kinds of research reports.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u209	I had already seen Mrs Thieme's arguments in the amendment, so this does not change my opinion. I continue to advise against the amendment. I shall now turn to the Amendment No 1, tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Mr Van Gerven, on the fight against wildlife crime. I agree with Mr Van Gerven that the fight against wildlife crime is crucial for the preservation of a population of special species in the wild in Africa, such as elephants, nose horns and lions, which are threatened by organized crime gangs, among others. I happened to have another conversation with some rangers when I was in South Africa. That is why, in my budget for the cabinet period from 2014 to 2017, I also made a total of EUR 4 million available for the fight against wildlife crime. In this way, I am also giving an extra boost to expose and solve this global problem. We are committed to activities to combat wildlife crime such as combating poaching, strengthening the enforcement and detection of wildlife crime and limiting the demand for products such as ivory and rhinoceros. In addition, I provide annual contributions to organisations that are committed to the international approach to illegal trafficking such as Cites. I also informed the Chamber that I am organising an international conference on the fight against wildlife crime in March 2016. This should lead to an international approach, which also brings together international resources. It is not a problem that we, as the Netherlands, can solve alone. I wish. In addition, with the Smaling/Empty Amendment adopted in 2014, EUR 2 million was made available in the External Trade and Development Cooperation budget to combat wildlife crime. Its use shall be carried out in close cooperation with EZ. The use of more resources to combat wildlife crime would be at the expense of the very limited budget needed to implement the policy set out in the National Nature Vision. That is why I reject this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u210	You are not the author of this amendment, Mrs Lodders.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u211	I have a question on the amendment to item No. 88, replacing the amendment which has been printed on item No. 85, which I believe is part of the EZ budget. It was tabled by Mr Dijkgraaf, who is not in the Chamber right now. I would ask the Secretary of State to give an opinion on this in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u212	I'll see if it's there already. If that is not the case, I shall return to it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u213	We are not aware of that amendment. If the Secretary of State doesn't have it either...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u214	I've got it. I'll get back to you in this term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u215	Even in this period. Well, Mrs. Lodders. Mr Van Gerven, briefly. We really need to move on to those votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u216	My question to the Secretary of State is whether he is dissuading the amendment simply because of its coverage or also its content.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u217	The coverage is content, because it is at the expense of other activities. We have just debated this extensively, I think for an hour, and it has been said how important we all think it is. If you save on that, you do less in Dutch nature. As far as wildlife crime is concerned, you can of course count on me, just as you could on my predecessor. I'm very passionate about that. However, this does not mean that only more Dutch money is needed. I have already said that we also want to address this internationally, that we are organising an international conference for this. We hope to be able to use international resources for this. That also puts a bit more weight on the dike. Of course, the purpose you are concerned with is at my heart. However, in the way you do so, it is really at the expense of other activities. Besides, it's not necessarily necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u218	Short, pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u219	The Secretary of State has problems with the coverage from the Rijksnatuurvisie. If I come up with another cover, could the verdict be positive?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u220	I don't think that's a very good chance. I have already said that I am not necessarily jumping for more Dutch money for this at the moment. We want to play a leading role. We've already made quite a bit of a budget available for this purpose. More money doesn't necessarily mean that we can do a lot more now than we do now. The most important thing is that we are able to bring parties together internationally for this and that they are able to come up with additional resources. That puts a lot more weight on the dike than if we now in the Netherlands free up some extra money for it. So I don't think it would really change my judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u221	Then there is the amendment to item No. 90.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u222	This concerns the Stichting Forenisch Dieronderzoek. The Netherlands Forensic Institute, which is covered by V and J, can already use forensic veterinary expertise if necessary, in collaboration with the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine. Therefore, I do not see any reason at the moment to reserve additional resources for a pilot. In addition, during the VAO Animal Welfare of 22 September last. by my predecessor agreed to enter into the conversation about a forensic centre of expertise with these organizations. I await their proposal. The author, Mr Graus, seeks cover in the legally non-compulsory part of the budget of Article 12. There is no relationship between a strong capacity for innovation, for which that money is intended, and the promotion of forensic expertise in the field of animals. So I do not really see a link between the destination of the money and the coverage. For this reason, too, I do not recommend the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u223	Shortly, Mr. Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u224	The point is that it has indeed been promised and that these people have never heard anything again. Of course, that's very embarrassing. I'm also a bit of a joker, apart from the fact that I've been promised. Those people themselves contacted the Ministry of EZ and the official said: I know nothing about it. That is, of course, completely scandalous, because it has been promised by a Secretary of State. So there's a lot of communication problems about it. What matters, however, is that it is not true what the Secretary of State said. It's not true: the NFI isn't doing anything about forensic animal research anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u225	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u226	There are currently two people active, two.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u227	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u228	They're asking for financial support. They're doing it with their own money now. It can't be. That's no way we're gonna catch those horsemen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u229	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u230	They're gonna commit crimes against people, and we're gonna be late. I think that those horses are important enough, let us be clear about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u231	Mr Graus can, of course, debate the deployment of the NFI with the Minister for Security and Justice. There may be a lack of clarity in communication. The picture with me is that we are waiting for a proposal from the initiators to proceed with the discussion. That proposal should be put forward, but perhaps in the contact between the initiators and the department we can clarify who is waiting for who. I think that might be useful. But that does not alter the fact that I still reject the amendment, Mr Graus. I have just taken up the issue of the protection of grasslands. The decline in pasture bird status must be stopped. That's my ambition. I also sent a letter on this subject. The new system of collective agricultural nature management can strengthen this. In the nature vision, strengthening the connection between agriculture and nature is also included as a theme. This amendment on meadow birds fits in with that line. The use of non-compulsory resources for this purpose is possible. So there's cover. At the same time, I would point out that we are talking to the sector about how we are spending the EUR 30 million European envelope. It is allocated to the Netherlands by the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development. The Chamber has therefore heard from me that it is my commitment to freeing up funds for this. I leave the opinion on this amendment to the Chamber, because the coverage is sound. I come to the amendment to item No. 92. It's about a temporary task force on food surpluses and food banks. For this, Mrs Dik-Faber would like to pay €200,000. I said earlier that I have added value with Food Banks Netherlands, the Alliance Sustainability Food and my colleague from Social Affairs research or a task force. I do not think that any additional resources are necessary at the moment. That is why I do not recommend this amendment. The amendment in part No. 97 is about a fund for nature management in the Caribbean Netherlands. I agree with the authors, Mrs Thieme and Mrs Koşer Kaya, that nature management in the Caribbean part of the Kingdom is of great importance, because of the intrinsic value of nature, but of course also for the economy of the islands. That is where tourism and nature tourism must also be used. In recent years, the Ministry of the Interior and Kingdom Relations has provided EUR 1 million annually for a fund for the Dutch Caribbean Nature Alliance to support the management of nature parks in the six islands of the Antilles. They finance nature development projects. These resources are adequate. So I do not think that raising is necessary. That is why I do not recommend the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u232	I'm a dead man. I've spoken to the people of the Dutch Caribbean Nature Alliance who are about that. They say: we have now started it nicely, also thanks to the Netherlands, because the BES islands themselves are doing nothing. They don't have any money for that. Those islands cannot get money from the World Bank because they are part of the Kingdom of the Netherlands. People at DCNA say we're in the middle of nowhere. However, this is very important. It would be a shame if what has been built up over the past ten years falls into the water because it cannot be continued. I would therefore ask the Secretary of State once again to look at it. Otherwise, all these investments would have been for nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u233	I know the vulnerable position of nature, including in the Caribbean Netherlands. However, I have just given the Court my opinion that the existing resources are adequate at the moment. If there is any reason in the future to look at this in a different way, we will come back to it. However, I would like to say that I do not recommend this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u234	Why, according to the Secretary of State, is it adequate? My colleague Koşer Kaya just whispered that to me. How does the Secretary of State find that the funds are adequate? I'm told we don't have any money.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u235	Of course, there is always the desire to have more money available to protect nature better. I get that wish. However, I have already said that the Minister of the Interior has made the budget available for ten years.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u236	Mrs Koşer Kaya also wishes to comment on this. Please be very brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u237	Then there must also be evidence that the resources are adequate. I don't hear that kind of argument. Why are the resources adequate?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u238	Because, in my view, the funding meets the ambitions that lie ahead. There's already funding. But if I cannot convince Mrs Koşer Kaya of this, she will undoubtedly come back to it in the second term, and I will respond again in my second term. It seems to me that it is best to do so now for the progress of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u239	The point is that there is no adequate funding. If the Secretary of State says that the funding is adequate, then I would like to support it, perhaps in writing, before we keep the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u240	If Mrs Koşer Kaya does not agree with my opinion, then I will hear it in her contribution in second term and I will come back to it in my second term speech. The Van Gerven/Dik-Faber amendment to item No. 98 is about the foundation Zorg om Boer en Tuinder (ZOB). I greatly appreciate the volunteers of the foundation and the help they offer to farmers in difficult times. The work of this foundation has long been financed by the Ministry through the project Kans and the successor Boerenkans. That project was completed in 2013. This also brought an end to the financing of the foundation by Economic Affairs. Special attention has been paid to the completion of the Boerenkans project through expert meetings, in which the ZOB foundation was also present. The conclusion was at the time and is still that the various interest groups are able to find each other and that they are able to join together farmers who want to stop. That is also the way we have dealt with it in other sectors. I don't see any specific role for EZ. In this case, there is no reason to treat the agricultural sector differently from, for example, the retail sector, where entrepreneurs can sometimes use help in difficult times. That is why I do not recommend this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u241	There used to be such an arrangement. That's because it was such a special sector. Farms stop every day. That is extremely much compared to other sectors. That is why we have tabled an amendment. I would ask the Secretary of State to respond to that argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u242	I believe that Mr Van Gerven is wronging other sectors. I don't know if he knows what the situation in retail is right now and how small retailers stand. There many are forced to end their business. This is certainly accompanied by personal concerns and personal problems. I believe that it is up to the interbranch organisations that do so, and they can do so too, in order to organise solidarity among themselves, so that they can provide assistance. It is not a task for the government and EZ to do so. Then we should do so in all those sectors. I don't want to. I think you should also be able to count on solidarity in the sector itself. Given the amount involved, the sector can do so itself. Mr. Chairman. In Amendment No 6, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, the Committee on the I have already indicated in my letter of 30 November that I would like first of all to check the efficiency of the NVWA and to review the task package in order to clarify the financial perspective. In that letter, I promised that I would inform the Chamber of the results of the screening and review as well as the progress of the implementation of the plan of approach in spring 2016 and that, if necessary, I would come to the Spring paper with additional measures. Against that background, I would advise against the amendment. The Dik-Faber/Van Gerven amendment to item No. 100 is about the Foundation Rare Pets. Before the summer, Bureau Bartels produced the evaluation of the rare pet variety scheme. In the short term, I will send this evaluation report and my response to it to the Chamber. I shall also mention the financial resources. Therefore, I do not think it is appropriate to commit additional resources at this time. That is why I do not recommend this amendment. The Dijkgraaf/Geurts amendment No. 101 is also about extra money for the NVWA. I would advise against this amendment. I have the same argument for this as for the Thieme amendment in part No. 99. I think we should first go along the route as I mentioned in my letter of 30 November. We will talk about this in more detail in the spring. In addition, the coverage of this amendment is not sound because the proposers cover it in a place that is not related to the spending targets. That is another reason to discourage it, but in itself the argument I put forward in Mrs Thieme's argument was more than sufficient.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u243	It seems to me that we have had all the amendments with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u244	I still have the Dijkgraaf amendment c.s. in piece No. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). I would also like to take it with me so that the Chamber can take it into consideration. They do not relate to my part of the budget, but to the EZ budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u245	If you can do that, we appreciate it very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u246	I liked the last line of reasoning. The coalition has tabled an amendment to cover a culture gap with coverage from the ETS funds. Apparently, the cabinet can do the same. I would like information from the cabinet where the unity of government policy has remained.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u247	For this purpose, I don't think it's a good cover. You can discuss this with me. You may discuss other purposes with other rulers. In addition, I also have a substantive reason to discourage your amendment. I think we should do the screening and re-examination first. We report on this in the next progress report. If necessary, I will return to the spring note with further measures. This isn't the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u248	I note that the government thinks it is a good idea to transfer money from the EZ budget to the culture budget, but that it is not a good plan if it is spent within the EZ budget. That promises something for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u249	I take note of that. Then I come to the amendment to item No. 88, as promised, the fees for registration of marifons. I would advise against that amendment. Contrary to the amendment, the abolition of the fee in 2008 was not intended to increase water safety. This was part of a state-wide package to simplify permits. Some well-paid registrations are not reimbursed, while other frequency users pay for the work done. The fee is relatively low and therefore it is unlikely that this will have an effect on the use of the radio and that it will reduce safety. In addition, the use of the marine radio for inland waterway vessels is an international obligation. The remuneration is in line with the principle of "the profit-payer pays." The costs are charged to the market in accordance with the government policy. The fee shall cover the costs of the work carried out by the Agency specifically for registration holders, radiophone owners and radio broadcasting amateurs. If the 2.25 million is to be paid out of the budget in Article 11 from 2016, this would mean a significant structural reduction of 35% of the funds for, for example, frequencies and safety. This money is needed for, among other things, the planned extension of radio licences and the re-release of frequencies for public and commercial TV. That is why I do not recommend that amendment. I come to the amendments to the Nos. 64 and 95 by Mr Öztürk. The Empire conducts general economic policies to strengthen the economy, top sectors policy and business policy. Regional economic policy is decentralised. The Empire has no responsibilities for investment at district level. That is primarily to municipalities themselves. For those who have missed it, Mr Öztürk proposes to make money available from different budgets for the economy of the neighbourhood. Through the Agenda City, the cabinet supports cities in the task they face. The focus is on growth, innovation and viability. The cabinet aims to make better use of the economic potential of cities. The 60 million for district economy is not necessary and the intended coverage runs counter to government policy. I therefore reject the amendments. Then there are Amendments Nos 21 and 96, including those tabled by Mr Öztürk, in order to make money available for the craft economy. I should also advise against these amendments. There is no need to make extra money available for this either. Sector plans are an important tool in tackling labour market bottlenecks for the technical sectors and also for the craft industries. The use of resources for the sectoral plans has already been agreed with the social partners. One of the facilities is the use of demand-oriented training vouchers to compensate for direct training for promising occupations. The training courses must be trained into a recognised diploma or a partial certificate. The vouchers can also be used for retraining to a craft profession. During yesterday's discussion of the SZW budget in the Chamber, the Minister of SZW discussed the lack of coverage. That is why we both do not recommend that amendment. The same applies to Mr Öztürk's amendments to item Nos. 19 and 93 on business transfers. Its coverage is inadequate, as the Minister of SZW said yesterday. Here too, there is no need to strengthen the budget. This brings me to the end of all the amendments which I would still be providing with an opinion, including those which did not relate directly to this part of the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-8.u250	A little extra service. It took you 4 minutes and 48 seconds, including interruptions. I'll suspend until 6:15 and then we'll vote. That's gonna take a little less than two hours. I understand that the Secretary of State is kind enough to spend that time in trade union K. He's denying that now, but that's a matter for the Registry, I think. After those votes, which are going to take a little less than two hours, I say again, we will continue with the second deadline and then you can table motions and so on.
