ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u1	This is a special part of the Chamber meeting. We say goodbye to our Registrar, Mrs Jacqueline Biesheuvel-Vermeijden, in connection with reaching retirement age. I would like to welcome everyone in the Chamber: MPs, staff, Prime Minister, Minister for the Interior, former Chamber Chairmen Jeltje van Nieuwenhoven, Frans Weisglas, Gerdi Verbeet, and the predecessor of the current Registrar, Willem-Hendrik de Beaufort. Jacqueline, in particular, I welcome you, of course, as do your family and your friends. I call the Registrar of the First Chamber and the United Assembly, Mr Geert Jan Hamilton. Then I will address the Registrar myself on behalf of all of us. For the first time, I think, but certainly for the last time, the Registrar has the last word.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u2	Madam President. Thank you very much. It is a special privilege for me to speak in your Chamber on the occasion of the farewell of my esteemed and dear colleague, Jacqueline Biesheuvel-Vermeerden. On 22 July 1581 the United States General decided to renounce the Spanish King Philip II as their sovereign prince. They asked their Registrar, Jan van Asseliers, to write down on the basis of the deliberations. Asseliers took up the goose feather and came back four days later with a manuscript that entered history as Plaktkaat van Verlatinghe, and declaration of independence of the Netherlands. After reading it, he was given an immediate mandate to sign the document on behalf of the States General. During the first centuries, two demands were made to the Registrars, who did not yet apply to delegates: to read and write.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u3	Since 1815, the Constitution now provides in Article 61, second paragraph, that each of the Chambers shall appoint a Registrar. By doing so, the Registry of the Chambers, unlike, for example, top officials of ministries, are explicitly mentioned constitutional officers. Among the Republic of the United Netherlands, the United States General has known eleven Warriors, including five members of the family Fagel for 125 years in quasi-inheritance. The House of Representatives recently appointed its 14th Registrar. The 14th Warrior of the First Chamber stands before you. The thirteenth Registrar of the House of Representatives, Jacqueline Biesheuvel-Vermeijden, is the first woman in the long series of Registrars and therefore she will continue to occupy a special position in the political history of our country. Her name will appear in the list of first female constitutional ministers, of whom I mention, besides of course Queen Wilhelmina, here: Suze Groeneweg, Carry Pothuis-Smit, Marga Klompé, Liesbeth Ribbius Peletier, Jeltje van Nieuwenhoven and Yvonne Timmerman-Buck. We are still waiting, as we know, for the first female Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u4	As a Registrar, Jacqueline has, in my opinion, always acted completely politically neutrally. It is difficult to deny that it comes from one of the pillars that had strongly supported Dutch society in the last century, the philosophical movement where Abraham Kuyper's principle of "sovereignty in his own circle" was a high priority. Jacqueline Biesheuvel-Vermeijden, well-known names from that circle, is of Protestant House and met many prominent members of the former Anti-Revolutionary Party in her youth. Nevertheless, she spent her childhood partly in the Catholic South. In the fifties she and I must have passed each other on the Berg and Dalseweg in Nijmegen frequently on the step and by bike. In her own circle Jacqueline goes to the Reformed Gymnasium in Amsterdam, she studies law at the Vrije Universiteit van Amsterdam and becomes a scientific assistant at Professor Job de Ruiter. She meets the man of her life, Pieter Jan Biesheuvel, with whom she married 42 years ago. In Christian circles, she performs numerous administrative functions: housing, secondary special education, rural women, trade union movement, scientific education, care. Where her mother was previously a member of the Dutch Christian Women's Union, an important emancipatory movement for Christian women, Jacqueline became a member in 1989 and later vice-president of the Emancipation Council, a secular organization. Like her husband, she's becoming politically active. I will not mention the name of her party, because she leaves the active politics behind when she moves to the Lower House in 2000, where she becomes a Registrar in 2004. The official organization "Upper House" is called the "Griffine" as the back office of parliament. The core tasks of the Registry have not changed substantially over the centuries. The Instruction for the Registrar of 1842, which I received at the time of my arrival, is of remarkable topicality, although Article 5, which requires the Registrar to submit all the documents to the Chamber for a meeting, would not now fit in well with the procedure. What has only increased in the last 15 years is the media coverage under which Parliament is doing its job. Numerous television channels, news sites and social media follow what is happening. The international and European dimension has also been greatly widened. The central point between 150 political leaders and the supporting official organisation is the Registrar. If something has gone wrong somewhere in the mind of one or more people, the eyes are logical internally often directed at the Registrar for an explanation and a solution. Sometimes it is inevitable that the Registrar should explain with the emotion of a fish in cold water how the procedures set out by Parliament itself are put together. From the flank I have often seen Jacqueline operate with admiration in the fields of strength and tension in which she was found: sober, self-conscious, laconic, serviceable, resting, solution-oriented and often effective. I believe that Jacqueline has shown that he has the sthenic breast that the office requires. Jacqueline and I have often met when it comes to the interface between the work of the two chambers, the common activities, with the necessary coordination: receipts, visits, memorials, events and travels, and the work of the United Assembly of the States-General. The Netherlands has the second oldest bicameral parliamentary system in Europe. The Constitutionalist believed that the quality of legislation would benefit from two chambers dealing with legislative proposals. Quality takes time and time is scarce. In the struggle for time and in the planning of the many work that has to be done, the interests of both Chambers do not always run in parallel. On the breach for our own Room Jacqueline and I had to become equally functionally angry with each other. But that anger never lasted long, especially if we quickly found a practical solution, and it never disturbed the personal relationship. It is precisely because the Netherlands has such a long parliamentary tradition that many parliaments are interested in young democracies how the parliamentary work in our country is organised and carried out. An important state school and platform for the exchange of best practices is the Association of Secretariats General of Parliaments (ASGP), an organisation operating in the margins of the Inter-Parliamentary Union, but with the approximately 120 Registrars participating, can often go much deeper into matters than the large interparliamentary meeting. Jacqueline was undoubtedly authoritative in that circle and through her many contributions has honored the reputation of the House of Representatives in the world. Together, with film footage supported, we once gave a presentation about "the King in Parliament." Unfortunately, due to circumstances, Jacqueline could not be present at the last meeting. At that time I was allowed to take over her speech, which was about the new procedure of cabinet formation in our country, which has now been evaluated. Apart from the text, I could elaborate on the position of the Upper House in that whole, and above all I could emphasise that the former President of the Second Chamber, Gerdi Verbeet, and Jacqueline Biesheuvel for the organisation and elaboration of the new process of cabinet formation in 2013 together received a prestigious prize: the Prinsjes Prize. Many colleagues have asked me to send my warmest regards and best wishes to Jacqueline. My dear colleague, dear Jacqueline, Now that your registrarship of the Second Chamber is coming to an end, I would like to thank you greatly for your warmth, helpfulness and collegiality in a series of years. The line between us was short, we knew how to find each other quickly, if necessary. Few words were enough. The trust in each other was great. I think over the years we've formed a rather solid invisible axis in the Binnenhof. We have often been able to quickly solve problems behind the scenes and sometimes do damage control. Our official organisations have worked well together in many areas and the First Chamber, as a small working organisation, has liked to use services of the Second Chamber such as security, technical ICT support, Report and Editorial and Interparliamentary Relations. That cooperation also went well in the preparation of the King's grand project Inauguration in the States General in 2013. It was a wonderful experience and a big party. You're entering a new phase of your life. Your family and grandchildren will see you more in real life and less on television. There will be more time for music and culture, great passions of yours. From my wife Ineke, who hears some things in life before me, I understood that among other things you intend to build a large dollhouse. Undoubtedly that will be inspired by the political environment in which you have worked with so much pleasure and so successfully. I wish you good luck!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u5	Thank you, Mr Hamilton, for your warm words! Jacqueline, I'm gonna turn my chair a little bit so I can look at you. I will take you all back to 2004, to a room in the Novotel across the street, where the application committee chaired by former Chamber Chairman Frans Weisglas was waiting for the next applicant. The committee waited, waited and waited. Eventually, one of the deputy griffins, also member of the application committee, picked up the phone. "Jacqueline," he said, "you suspected it: this anecdote is about her "where are you blíjf?" To make a long story short: Jacqueline, who assumed that the conversation would take place a day later, hurried to the other side and made a crushing impression. The rest is history. It can happen to the best of us: put an appointment wrong on the agenda. Why I'm bringing it up now is because it runs counter to how we met you, Jacqueline. The word "griffin" comes from Latin and means "writer." In that sense, your job is written all over you. We never see you without your notebook, which captures exactly what you see, hears and discusses. You're one of the most accurate, punctual people I know. Even though you were a little out of breath while you were on the job interview, it's not surprising that you got the job. You feel traditionally and from home involved in parliamentary work. Your grandfather, Jan Terpstra, was MP, Vice-President and Minister, and also your husband, Pieter Jan, was a popular representative for many years. You yourself started on 1 March 2000 in the Chamber, as director of the Constitutional Process. The interview you ran to in 2004 was a logical follow-up. You've locked the House of Representatives in your heart. And as we are going to miss you, it will be difficult for you to stop cycling to the Room every day, due to weather and wind. With us in this house, with all of us, "the Warrior" is a concept, but outside it sometimes needs some explanation. "What's with the woman sitting next to you in the meeting?" It's a question I often get. Then I can explain that the Warrior has three roles. First of all, you are the head of the official organisation and you are in charge of the 600 employees of the House of Representatives. I think you know almost all of them by name. Over the years, you have attended countless clerks' and or-meetings, led your reorganisations and transitions, gave you courses on state law and talked to all the new employees. The best part is getting on the staff getaway when your whole club's together and you're happy dancing along. At moments like this, you shine and the pride of it splashes off. You're the one who's showing that pettyness and warmth aren't at odds. As a supervisor, you can be both above the organisation and part of it. There are a lot of people you have worked closely with, especially at the Registry Plenair and the Registry Commissions. But the people who really know everything about you are the employees of your secretariat. They have your phone's puk codes, know your computer's login and iPad's and iPad's login, and that's not unimportant. You know exactly what to do when a technical crisis breaks out. "Mandy, Suzanne, help, my screen is blue again!" I hear it screaming all the time down the halls. They always know how to solve it quickly. The Registrar also has a representative role. You represent the Chamber at home and abroad, during work visits, congresses, celebrations and commemorations. Group Chairmen traveled on the islands in the Caribbean part of the Kingdom, in Tanzania and Suriname, and as a participant in the biennial clerk conferences you travelled from Manila to Quito. You don't like to sit on your hands during travels like this. You're curious about everything you see and you're an active interlocutor. Wherever you can, you're proud to tell me about the way your parliament works. You also know exactly which delegations you like best to sit with.The Scandinavians score high and in your own diplomatic way you know how to wheel and deal with all those foreign colleagues. Often you were accompanied by the Warrior of the First Chamber, who has nice memories of it. Last but not least, as a Registrar, you are the President's first advisor, the Bureau and, in fact, the entire Chamber. At the farewell of the previous Registrar, reference was made to the statement of the politician Green of Prinster that you can only be impartial when you have chosen a party. That goes for you, too. Everyone knows your political colour. After all, you were a city council member and even party chairman of the CDA here in The Hague, but we never noticed any of that. Your political sensitivity is mainly expressed in the absence of politics. You think and reason purely from our constitution, from existing laws and regulations and agreements we have made with each other. You can clearly see this in the many Bureau notes you wrote and in the way you advise during debates. I think I also speak on behalf of the former Chamber Chairmen when I say that the link between President and Registrar is an extra special one. You were more than just a right hand. I'd almost say a whole right arm. I've come to know you as someone with a big heart, not only for your immediate surroundings, your family, but also for society as a whole. You are actively committed to the world around you. For example, you were a member of the National Committee 4 and 5 May, a member of the Board of the Stichting Zorgverlening's Heeren Loo and the Hogeschool Leiden, and a member of the Supervisory Board of the Anne Frank House. It's striking that if you join a club, you'll be a board member in no time. But it fits well with that other ambition of yours, putting women on the map. In view of your role in the CDA Women's Council and especially the Emancipation Board, it's extraordinary that you are one of the few female Guardians in the world. And although it's not a subject for you, I think you're secretly enjoying that tradition being continued and that your successor is a woman again. For more than ten years, you were a Warrior. It takes too long to dwell on all your successes from the different roles I've just mentioned. But I would like to highlight three of them, starting with the process of parliamentary self-reflection in connection with the Schinkelshoek motion. from 2008. You were clerk of a heavy political steering committee, who had the task of keeping the Chamber's position, reputation and working methods under review; a keg to your hand. It was at the heart of our parliamentary democracy, the balance between our co-legislative and controlling task. You have interfered intensively with the implementation of the steering committee's recommendations. To this day this sounds in the Chamber, for example with the State of the Chamber or in the future and research agenda. In addition, there was the cabinet formation of 2012. Not long before that, in March 2012, the House of Representatives decided to amend Rule 139a of the Rules of Procedure and bring the direction in the formation to its attention. As a Registrar, you were a constant factor and you had a key role in the elaboration of that motion. In detail, you figured it all out. Your roadmap made sure that the Chamber knew exactly what was to happen at what point, and if there was a gap, you quickly tied up. The biggest compliment is that the Chamber managed to bring that cabinet formation to a successful conclusion itself. A scientific committee led by Professor Bovend'Eert recently confirmed that it is thanks to your care in the process, and of course also thanks to the Chamber, that this motion has been successfully carried out. We're proud of that and we're grateful for it. With this cabinet formation, you've been involved in parliamentary history. And then, of course, there was the throne change. Together with Geert Jan, whom we heard earlier, you were responsible for the constitutional side, the organisation of the united assembly. You made sure everything was arranged with him, right up to the bus. And you looked beautiful that day. And what a gift it was to be able to experience such an event at such close range. You fully realized that as you always realize how unique it is to be a part of this world. Jacqueline, You're leaving on the eve of a big change. As of January 2016, we are dealing with a whole new management team. The top structure is changing and there will be another director of the Constitutional Process. It especially shows that the work of a Warrior is never finished. With you, I firmly believe in our parliamentary democracy, in the strength of this institution, and also that change is sometimes necessary to keep Parliament contemporary. There's two centuries behind us, and we're gonna go on for at least that long. All these years there has been a Registrar, and it will remain so: as head of the official organization, as ambassador and as advisor. Your name goes into the books, as the person whose eyes are shining at the moment a complex constitutional or legal problem comes on her way, who in difficult situations soberly says that it will be evening again and that every time so nicely runs back to her place after she has accompanied a new MP into the room to be sworn in. If you're not in the Chamber, you still have a passion: music. I haven't been able to enjoy it myself, unfortunately, but I've heard that there are people standing in front of your house when you play the piano, and sometimes even ring the bell and tell them they like it so much. And now time comes: time for music, to play for yourself and to listen. That's why you get a subscription to the Concertgebouw on behalf of the Room, or actually two subscriptions, because Pieter Jan has to come along. But I'm not done yet. Because you will not only enter our history books, you will also be included in the books of the Dutch Chapter for the Civil Order. It is with great pride and pleasure that I may tell you that His Majesty has pleased the King to appoint you Officer of the Order of Orange-Nassau for all your merits in the Chamber and beyond. May I ask you to stand in front of the rostrum, so I can pin down the decorations that are part of this appointment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u6	After all this emotion I give the last word in this particular part of the meeting to our Registrar, Jacqueline Biesheuvel-Vermeijden.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u7	Mr. Chairman. That was a surprise. I hadn't prepared this piece. I begin by thanking His Majesty the King most sincerely for this honorable award. Of course, I would also like to thank those who drew his attention to this. Now I come to the prepared part. Mr President, honourable Members, Prime Minister, Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations, dear relatives and friends, ladies and gentlemen. 60 years ago, I first met the House of Representatives and the Binnenhof. That was in my grandfather's study, Mr. Jan Terpstra, at Sweelinckplein in The Hague. He was a member of the Lower House of the Anti-Revolutionary Party (ARP) from 9 May 1933 to 13 December 1952, the day of his death. Jan Terpstra served as Minister of Education, Arts and Sciences in the third Ruijs de Beerenbrouck cabinet from 1929 to 1933. In the hall of the Ministry of Education, Culture and Science hangs a life-size painted portrait of my grandfather. He is not only recognizable by the very beautiful, tailor-made ministerial costume, but especially by the bottle of school milk that stands right in front of him. After all, he had imported the school milk. Although I was very fascinated by the pictures on the Sweelinckplein, I could not have sworn 60 years ago that I would follow the trail of my grandfather in The Hague from the Sweelinckstraat to the Binnenhof. In the Chamber we regularly receive students who have a social internship. At the end of the internship I hand out the certificates to these new ambassadors of the House of Representatives. As the President has just said, they ask me questions. Why did you become a Warrior? What does a Warrior do anyway? Well, why did I become a Warrior? At least I never dreamed of it, not during my high school days or during my student days, a time that I am happy to remember. No, looking back, the choice for the Registry has to do with my roots, my reformed upbringing: using the talents you've been given and standing up for the weak in society. This is how my interest in public interest and politics arose, especially during my student days in Amsterdam. For example, in the doctoral phase of my law studies, I left the choice of state law, administrative law and parliamentary history purely out of curiosity and interest. My graduation thesis was about the Parliamentary Survey Act. This beautiful instrument of the Chamber had become obsolete. The teacher who accompanied me strongly advised me not to write a thesis on this subject. But that didn't stop me. However, I brought in the Ombudsman's institution. This already existed in Sweden, but not yet in the Netherlands. After graduating, in addition to certain legal activities, I increasingly focused on the public and political domain and so I ended up in the Lower House in 2000 as director of the Constitutional Process. In fact, it was the previous Registrar, Willem-Hendrik de Beaufort, who gave me the key to choosing this beautiful office and in particular the way in which he gave effect to his task as advisor: calm, wise and always friendly. What does a Warrior do anyway? You will not be surprised that a lot of people think and say that I write a lot and that I make all the reports of all the meetings. Fortunately, that is done by others, by very expert staff. Of what I do as a Registrar, I would like to emphasise one aspect. The Registry is a constitutional function. This is not only very special because how many people can say that their function is laid down in the Constitution? But this also creates obligations. The Registrar monitors the constitutional frameworks and advises the Court on them. A good example of this is the amendment of the Rules of Procedure in 2012 which led the House of Representatives to take the lead in the formation. I have to confess to you that I have had sleepless nights after accepting this amendment by the Chamber. It was not only a question of the practical effects of this amendment of the Rules of Procedure within the Chamber, but also outside the Chamber that it had to be changed to the highest level. Together with the then President, Gerdi Verbeet, we have started to peel the issue off and we have developed a sort of roadmap for practice. I found it honorable to be the first Warrior to be involved in this new M.O. Tomorrow, after the votes, the Court of Auditors completed its evaluation of the formation in 2012. That leaves me with the task of turning the aforementioned roadmap into a practical roadmap. I am happy to take on this task, but with this note: no rights can be derived from the results obtained in the past. Another fine example, it has already been mentioned, was the inauguration of the new Head of State on 30 April 2013. The Registrar of the First Chamber and I, from our joint responsibility for the united assembly, have been in close consultation with all other parties from the announcement of the intended resignation until the inauguration. It goes without saying that we have constantly kept a close watch on the state-law situation. However, my job is not just to give advice. The Registrar is also the link between the political part of the Chamber and the administration. For example, the Rules of Procedure of the Second Chamber state that the Registrar is in charge of the administrative organisation, consisting of some 600 dedicated women and men, who find it an honor to work for the Chamber or, rather, for MPs: 150 women and men, not only with different views, but also with different wishes, even when it comes to work organisation. That's not always easy. Members of parliament are naturally, as a government auditor, looking for things that are not in order. That also sometimes translates into our organization. As a parliamentary official, you have to be able to take criticism, but the criticism is not always justified. As a Registrar, you have a double task in this: to prevent people from getting between hammer and anvil and to ensure that the matter gets around again, that there is a solution that is practical and feasible. Fortunately, the Rules of Procedure also provide for two directors to ease this matter. Looking back I am grateful for the good collaboration with former Griffier Willem-Hendrik de Beaufort and with the directors Henk Bakker, Peter Branger and recently Frank Ossewaard. Also outside the Lower House is cooperation and networking the creed. For example, the Registry of the First Chamber has a literal mark, not only in protocol but above all in the common interest of serving Parliament with coordinated advice and solutions to any conceivable problem. I thank Chris Baljé, Leendert Klaassen and Geert Jan Hamilton for their good cooperation. Apart from the First Chamber, there have been many contacts with the other High Colleges of State, not only in order to be able to align with each other in times of austerity, but above all to work together where possible. ICT, security and mobility of our employees are good examples of this. The House of Representatives is a beautiful organization, where people work for the Chamber. Serviceability and flexibility are paramount. Every effort is being made to support Members as effectively as possible, to enable Members to carry out the core tasks of the Chamber, control and co-legislative, as effectively as possible, to ensure that the Chamber is a true parliament. This also means always moving along with developments in society, not least in technical terms. For example, I remember visiting the attic of the Justice Building as Director of the Constitutional Process shortly after I took office in 2000. The Press and Magazine Documentation department was located there. At a real yellow table they also called "the yellow table". Every day the newspapers and magazines were checked for articles that could be of interest to the members. With some cut-and-paste work, the cutting newspaper and Parliamentaria were put together there. In particular, the magazine Parliamentaria, with the latest facts and small scandals, found eager deduction from the residents of the Chamber, unfortunately. The Press and Magazine Documentation department was merged into the Information Service shortly after, with a front office and a back office. This change of organisation is exemplary for the many, many organisational changes that the Chamber has undergone in recent years. This will also be the case in the coming years. At the moment, the ABDTOPConsult report is the guiding principle for this. I welcome these changes. I believe that a professional organisation should keep moving and constantly ask itself: are we doing the things we need to do and are doing them right? Sometimes your own mirror is enough to know the answer to these questions. Sometimes it takes someone else. It is precisely the use of the other that bears witness to courage and professionalism. I'll come to a conclusion. First of all, I wish the new Registrar, Mrs Renata Voss, every success in her new position. It is a special function in which not a day is the same, a function that sometimes requires a lot of you but also gives a lot of energy, an honorable function in the heart of our democracy. I would like to thank the House of Representatives for the trust she has placed in me. I have always experienced it as a very great privilege to be able to perform this function in your midst and thus make a small contribution to the history of our parliamentary democracy, if only because, as my colleague said, I am the first female Registrar. I have been able to work intensively with the Presidents Van Nieuwenhoven, Weisglas, Verbeet and Van Miltenburg. They have undoubtedly left a strong mark on the way in which I have carried out my duties. I would like to thank them all for that. They have co-formed and inspired me, so I have done things as I have done them. Finally, I would like to highlight all the staff of the Chamber. I would like to thank them for their loyalty and dedication, especially those who do not work directly in the political front line. As I pointed out, the role of Registrar is not easy but interesting and stimulating at the same time. Together we have only one goal: to support the members of parliament professionally and engaged in all chamber activities. Finally, a heartfelt word of thanks to my closest friends, family and friends. They are and remain my associates in love, sorrow and joy. Mr. Chairman. I will certainly miss direct contact with the Chamber, but I also think with joy and gratitude back to the more than fifteen years in which I was allowed to use my talents in this Chamber for the sake of our parliamentary democracy. Good luck to you all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u8	Thank you, dear Jacqueline, for these beautiful and wise words. I invite all the members, family and friends of the Warrior to come with me to the Smoking Salon. There you can personally say goodbye to Jacqueline.
