ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u1	A warm word of welcome to the Minister for National Service and Living. We have six speakers from the Chamber. The first speaker is going to make his maiden speech. That may well be the reason why there are many members of the CDA Group present, as I estimate with my fine political feeling. In order to increase the joy of celebration, we also found the police willing to make some background noises, so that Mr.H.A.G.'s maiden speech. Ronnes will not pass without commotion. I call Mr Ronnes... then you must come here, Mr Ronnes. We all know how things are: Mr Ronnes cannot be interrupted. We wish him every success. He has three minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. "When I walk to my hotel after a dark day, I feel my house key deep in my pocket." Music lovers will be able to bring this text home. I will come back to this at the end of my contribution. What a privilege it is to stand here and speak on behalf of the CDA Group. Traditionally I too, in this case one day after my swearing in, hold my maiden speech twenty hours to be precise. The road here wasn't a planned career. In addition to my day-to-day job at multinational Xerox I was there working in logistics, ICT and finance functions I was looking for ways to contribute to society. After a twelve-year council membership and an aldermanship of more than five years in the municipality of Boxmeer, Land van Cuijk region, I am in an honorable position to work as a representative from Brabant on a better Netherlands, a challenge that I like to address. You will not be surprised that as a right-minded CDA, my motives and motivation for the office of MP are to be traced back to the four core values of the CDA: shared responsibility, solidarity, public justice and stewardship. One jumps out for me: stewardship. Former MP Peter van Wijmen sometimes described the concept of stewardship as follows: stewardship deals with the integrity and intact transfer to future generations of what is available, earth, creation, environment and landscape, and also with the just distribution of all that the earth produces. In other words, how do you pass the earth on to a next generation and deal with your environment? By this I mean not only the natural environment, but also the handling of gifts and talents in the fields of science, technology, division of labour, economy, culture and our values. Does this mean you don't have to change anything? No, on the contrary. In my view, we must be prepared to go along in the changing world, while preserving our values. For example, I see my children growing up with the new state of technology, and citizens taking the initiative to develop their own energy supply or new forms of financing. Change should not scare but offer opportunities. What is the moral of this story? Give the earth, so also the Netherlands, a good way to pass on to a next generation, but don't be afraid to take new paths. New times call for new ways, taking into account the four core values. That is what I stand for, perfectly fitting within the seven principles of the CDA Group, specifically by the seventh principle, that of the future of our children. From my role as alderman, I often sat at the table with citizens and businesses in my previous position. They wanted to move forward: not bureaucratic freaks, but to develop and realise plans. In my first debate, we run into one of those seemingly freaks: the energy label. Complicated procedures, especially for older people who are not useful in the digital world, wrong data, additional costs and questions about the quality of the final energy label results: in January, the annoyance over the energy label was enormous. The issue was chaotic and gave rise to this debate. In the meantime, it seems to be largely resolved, but is that correct? Have all the problems been solved? How could it happen that the start was so difficult? The Ministry saw this coming, didn't it? It couldn't have been a surprise. In addition to the difficult start, there are still some irritations with the CDA fraction. House owners are confronted with labels that are deliberately and knowingly judged to be negative by the government. People are being put on the wrong foot. We conclude this from the responses we are allowed to receive from citizens. In a rural morning newspaper, I read that this is done to encourage homeowners to isolate their homes better. The spokesperson of the Minister responsible for Housing, Minister Blok, admits to knowingly assessing energy labels on the conservative side: we do not want people to sit back when it comes to energy saving, because we want them to be insulated in double glazing or in floor insulation; that is also good for construction. The question that comes to mind first is the following. Is this the new liberal way of stimulating the economy? The conservative assessment raises the following questions for our group. Is this some kind of deception? Is there deliberately wrong information given by a government body? Did Minister Blok know about this? If so, does he order the provision of misleading information? If not, why didn't he know? He should have known that in our eyes. On 17 March, the partners of the Spring Agreement sent a letter to the Minister about the major start-up problems in applying for a final energy label for new buildings. They point to another problem, namely that a final energy label will only become available after six weeks rather than after a few days. As a result, builders and developers cannot or cannot hand over a final energy label to the buyer in time for delivery. The financial damage caused to developers and builders by the improper introduction of the energy label is increasing. That is the opposite of what this sector needs. As an alternative, the four industry associations of the Spring Agreement propose that all new buildings be automatically awarded a final energy label A. It is unthinkable that a new building house will be delivered in 2015 which will score a lower final energy label, they argue. We are therefore curious to see what the Minister thinks of this suggestion. Another question that lives is: do we now meet European requirements with our so-called wet finger label? We have been pointed out from several quarters that it now seems that the European directives are not yet being complied with. Is there sufficient certainty that Brussels will approve the Dutch method? There seems to be some doubt in Brussels about the quality of the labels as no independent expert visits the home owner, but everything is handled via the Internet. Does the Netherlands have a wet finger label? How is this settled in other countries? Does this lead the Netherlands or not? Is the message that the Netherlands will receive two months to comply with the obligation? Otherwise, can Brussels decide to take the Netherlands to court with a possible fine? It wasn't properly arranged around the fine. It was only after the new law on the revision that institutions admitted to housing had passed through the First Chamber that an administrative fine could actually be imposed. Until then, according to lawyers, a penalty could not be imposed but a so-called penalty payment could be applied. Is that right? Have these problems been resolved by now? Is it true that the proposed fine of €405 cannot be implemented in the absence of an energy label at the time of the transfer? Mr President, so much for my first contribution to this Chamber. For those who have not yet been able to bring the introductory sentence home, I still have a final rule: "And then I think of Brabant, because there is still light".
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u3	Thank you. You immediately inserted a Brabants quarter of an hour into your speech. Compliments for your lovely story. This should be a maiden speech: a personal story and a few nice hard political points. We're dealing with a professional. You immediately converted your maiden speech into a filibuster, because you had three minutes of speaking time and you made it eight minutes. If there's a real president here, you've got a big problem, but we're gonna get rid of the fact that you shut up the police outside. So we're not making a big deal about it. I can congratulate you first and then there are others who want to do the same. Big compliments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u4	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I congratulate Mr Ronnes on his maiden speech. When I was listening, I was wondering how he was going to make the transition from a personal story to the energy label, but he succeeded. It was a good input, congratulations! Hopefully we will meet in this house many times and work well together. Mr. Chairman. Since this year, all houses must have an energy label when selling or renting. If you make such a demand, the quality of the energy label must of course be good. The label needs to predict the energy consumption of the house you're going to buy. The quality of the process must also be good. Unfortunately, both points have been strongly criticised from the outset, not only from SP angle, but also by environmental organisations, experts and property owners. The introduction of the energy label has become a mess. In 12 days, 10,000 complaints came in. And even the European Commission is unhappy. How does the Minister himself feel about the trial going? Are the 'child diseases', as they were mentioned in January, already out of the system? Are all property owners now provided with a provisional label? I cannot imagine the Minister looking back is completely satisfied, for example with the quality of the labels. How many wrong energy labels have been issued? How much money have homeowners had to spend so far to get a good label? The SP Group believes that homeowners should not pay for the mistakes the government makes. Can the Minister answer that? Is he willing to meet people? If so, how can a property owner prove that the mistake lies with the government? The European Commission states that the quality of the label is inadequate. The government has deliberately chosen the light variant of the energy label, while my group's previous spokesman on this subject, Mr Jansen, has warned about this on several occasions. Can the fact that the quality of the energy label has been classified as inadequate have legal consequences? Can this also generate additional costs for the Netherlands? What does a possible change mean for homeowners who already have a definitive energy label? Do they have to pull the wallet again? If so, who is going to pay for these costs? The SP Group is dissatisfied with the way things are going. This could have been better. I therefore ask the Minister to look back and learn from this. Can he indicate how he's going to improve the system?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u5	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Ronnes of the CDA. Welcome to this house. I hope that his next contributions to the debate will be as good and sharp as these, but a little shorter. However, I liked the story. Thank you for that! It is always nice to hear which way a colleague has gone to the Chamber and what he wants to achieve. Mr. Chairman. First we had a cabinet that was weak in policy and so D66 helped the cabinet in 2013. Now the Court of Auditors considers the cabinet to be weak in its implementation, but that will really have to be resolved by the cabinet itself. The energy labels we are talking about today are a symbol of this weak implementation. People get labels that don't add up. The website is stalled and the information is contradictory or incomplete. Franz Kafka could have written a book about this bureaucratic chaos. If I have to put a label on this, I choose the label G of messing up, messing up, messing up and messing up. My party is in favour of energy labels, let me make that clear to people in order to save energy for all of us climate and for their own wallet. But these labels must be reliable, workable and affordable. However, that reliability is far from satisfactory. In fact, the government has decided to deliberately distribute unfavourable energy labels. The fact that the labels are not correct is therefore not a mistake, but a deliberate intent. Hunting people by deliberately giving them wrong information; how silly can you be? Fraud is also lurking because buyers can control double glazing much less easily than roof insulation, but it is also very difficult for the experts to determine the correct value. When does the Minister come up with labels that do indicate the real energy value of a house? How will it increase the reliability of the labels?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u6	I was surprised that the CDA requested this debate and I am surprised that the D66 spokesperson is now rejecting this story. After all, both parties decided in November 2012 to vote away the bill that regulated a good and sound energy label. How does this relate to each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u7	That is right, in 2012 we voted firmly against the law as it was at the time, for the simple reason that people were unnecessarily chased at a cost when selling their house. At that time, we had in the time before D66 came to the aid, concluded the housing agreement, and the housing market got back on track, faced with a very fragile housing market. The last thing we wanted, and with us many parties and a majority in this Chamber, was to make it even more difficult for people to sell their house through a bureaucratic clumsy label. D66 is a party that says at such a time: we are very much in favour of the idea of energy saving, but we do not do that with an instrument that does not work. That is why we voted against it. Now there is another approach to the cabinet that does not work and that is what we are critical of.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u8	I have read these considerations back in the report of that consultation. It was also possible to amend the bill, wasn't it? Surely it was to be expected that the price would fall enormously if the label were to be introduced on a larger scale and people would ask for it more collectively? We took the trouble to probe this and then it turned out that this would be for €40 or €50 per house. I have the impression that the Chamber rejected the bill because of all kinds of anti-EU sentiments. Did they live with D66 when she rejected this bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u9	I've been accused of a lot of things in the last five years of being a Member of Parliament, but this is one of the most far-reaching. How can Mr De Vries accuse D66 of anti-EU sentiments? D66 is a pro-European party, but that means that we are also critical of European policy. We simply do not support all kinds of weird red tape rules from Europe. That is why we now have Mr Timmermans in Europe, who must put an end to this. I wouldn't be too afraid of it. It's very simple: come up with a good plan to make these energy labels workable for households. The Labour Party will find D66 by its side, but we will not probe or amend if there is a bad plan. Then we'll be against it and there'll be a better plan. The cabinet really needs to solve its lack of execution. Here's a good opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u10	That's good. You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u11	Yes, I will. The labels take far too much effort and many mistakes are made. For example, it is extremely painful when someone gets a label in the name of a deceased parent or husband, but that happens. When is the system gonna be okay? When do people who are penalised by the mistakes in the system receive remission of the fine? Another point is that the final label cannot be changed anymore, whereas it is sometimes necessary. Will the Minister change this? People are misled on websites by cheap offers from supposedly recognised experts, after which they still have to pay multiples. Will the Minister put an end to these abuses? Not everyone can arrange the label over the internet, but the paper route is much more complicated. How will the Minister simplify it? Now the government collects data from people. With what guarantees does the Minister ensure that this data is not misused? The question remains, of course, whether the completion of the label in the Netherlands is sufficient for the European Union. I am very interested to know whether the Minister will be able to give a ruling on the European Union's opinion. Otherwise, we have the problem that it is no longer feasible at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u12	Indeed, there may be a fine from the EU, from Brussels, because the Netherlands has created this chaos and has not properly introduced this label. Mr Verhoeven says he is critical of Brussels. We have a Commissioner, Timmermans, who would deal with this kind of misery. Brussels has made a mess of things. I refer to the abuses in Greece, Romania and Bulgaria. Surely it would be too crazy for words if the Netherlands were to be ticked on its fingers because of this label or even have to pay a fine? How does D66 feel about that? Does Mr Verhoeven find such a fine, such a threat from Brussels, acceptable?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u13	I find a threat with a fine acceptable because we have a European Union in which we have agreed whether or not to comply with agreements. If a country does not honour an agreement properly, and that is certainly the case with the Netherlands, then it is perfectly logical for Europe to say that there will be a fine. I think that is a bit the point that anti-European parties always make: they are very angry when other countries are not doing well; they need to be dealt with very hard, but if the Netherlands does not do something exactly according to the agreement, then a blind eye must be turned. I understand that the European Union is also critical of the Netherlands. I'm glad. That is the mutual criticism you have in a good relationship, but I do think that the cabinet should do everything in its power to ensure that that fine is not necessary. We should not, by definition, say that it is wrong for the Netherlands to be attacked once. It's coming from both sides.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u14	France hasn't lived up to its commitments for years. Greece has never met its commitments. Half of Europe does not abide by agreements, and there has never been a single fine for this. The Netherlands receives post-taxation after post-taxation and is always ready to pay, and now a threat of a fine. Mr Verhoeven says: when it comes, pay. That can't be true, can it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u15	I do not think I said that we should pay. I just said it's perfectly normal for you to look at a fine system from both sides. If we are critical of other countries, we must also be critical of ourselves. What the PVV always does a little bit is very much point to others and say what they all do wrong. The examples are always in the mouth of Mr Madlener and his colleagues. I think that the Netherlands should perform well. The Netherlands should not get worse because others perform worse. I believe that the Minister should ensure that the Netherlands performs sufficiently in order not to be fined. He's responsible for that. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u16	Mr. Chairman. It's a mess around the introduction of the energy label. We'd already predicted that. By the way, nobody is waiting for the energy label, because it does not actually have any added value for the consumer. I've been a realtor for years, and I've sold maybe a thousand properties. I've never seen anyone look at the isolation of a place. It's also a very short list: double glazing, wall insulation, roof insulation, the central heating boiler and then you're almost there. It is therefore quite easy for consumers to assess for themselves the energy performance of a home. Real estate agents will also always provide insight into the heating costs incurred by previous residents. That makes this energy label redundant from the start. So it should never have been there. The reason it's here now is because I hear that it's time and again that Brussels has to do it. It can't be true that we have to do things here because of Brussels that have no added value at all, that cost people and that are also difficult in terms of implementation. I would therefore like to start by asking what Mr Timmermans is going to do about this. Timmermans went to Brussels with a lot of poeha. He'd take on all those unnecessary rules. But I have nothing, but nothing, seen what was withdrawn or removed from the table by Mr Timmermans. I would therefore like to begin by asking whether the Minister is prepared to get into Brussels today like a hare and to see Mr Timmermans to get rid of this stupid demand from Brussels.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u17	That is a fair question from Mr Madlener. But here's what I'm gonna do. Mr Madlener now puts his hopes in the hands of Commissioner Timmermans. Suppose he manages to reverse or delete some of those unnecessary European rules that are certainly there. Does the PVV's confidence grow in Europe, in the European Union and in the European Commission? Is the PVV going to say: yes, something is being done; our confidence in Europe is growing? Or do they remain devoid of euros and climate skeptics?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u18	On that last point, we will certainly remain Eurosceptical, because the whole European project was doomed from the start, and those ideas were wrong and outdated. I refer in particular to an electoral pledge from Mr Timmermans and to the poeha he went to Brussels with. He'd be dealing with these unnecessary rules. That is what I want to hold this cabinet to, and that is why I am addressing Mr Timmermans. As a result, I will not revise my vision of the whole failed European Union project, but at least I will keep Mr Timmermans' commitment to his election.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u19	I think it is wonderful that Mr Madlener, from a national parliament, wants to try to keep a European Commissioner to his promise. I wish him every success in that. I would like to say that Mr Madlener always pretends to be very far away from Brussels, but he also has a number of colleagues there. What are his PVV colleagues doing in Brussels to ensure that Mr Timmermans does his job well there and that the PVV's confidence in Europe can be greatly increased?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u20	I can guarantee to Mr Verhoeven that my colleagues in Brussels fight and fight every day against all these unnecessary European rules. Those are quite a few, because the European project was already redundant and failed in the beginning. So that's all my colleagues do. But Mr Timmermans is not just sitting there: he is sitting there because this government has sent him there. He went there with the promise to deal with unnecessary rules. Here we have such a typical Brussels requirement: we have to introduce such an energy label, which has little added value for people and which entails a great deal of cost. I therefore ask the government to live up to the Commissioner's own electoral promise. That seems very reasonable to me. I am glad that D66 will at least support us in that, when I hear Mr Verhoeven like that. Mr. Chairman. I have already said that the energy label has very little value for people in the beginning, because they themselves are able to assess the energy performance of a home. The introduction has also become a mess on top of that. So I ask the Minister to put an end to the energy label. I shall also table a motion for that. Despite Brussels' obligation, I think that Minister Blok has met him in Brussels once in a while; he knows where it is... is perfectly capable of getting in his car today and, together with Mr Timmermans, getting rid of these insane, bureaucratic demands from Brussels and stopping the energy label.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u21	First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Ronnes on his maiden speech. We're gonna meet a lot of times, I think! Mr. Chairman. The minister was sent out in November 2012, as it turns out, with an almost impossible job. A majority of the House then wiped off the bill that would regulate the energy label. We were in favour because it is important that buyers and tenants, and later step by step all users of homes, have a reliable picture of the energy performance of their homes. This is important because energy performance increasingly determines the housing costs and can therefore also be important for determining the maximum mortgage or for deciding whether to buy or not to rent a house.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u22	That's where we're right on the problem, which is that the PvdA thinks that people are not able to judge how their home is isolated. Now I haven't heard anyone say, "God, is that double or single glass?" I don't know that whole problem. People do not need this label at all and certainly not the administrative chaos and costs that it entails. So can the PvdA explain again why it thinks that people are not able to judge something as an isolation of a home?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u23	Of course, the people who lived in the house know how high the energy bill is. There's a lot of behavior in that energy bill, too. The energy label is intended for buyers; they need to know what they buy and what housing costs they have when they buy that house. The same applies to the tenants as this energy label is also important to them. It is also important for mortgage providers to determine how high the mortgage should be. That must be objectively established. There shouldn't be any fuss about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u24	No fuss about being: there's just fuss now, just because of your energy label. Again, in practice people ask the previous residents what their monthly expenses were and are also very well able to assess whether there is double glass and whether or not the central heating boiler is ready for replacement. It's really about pretty simple things. I think you underestimate people tremendously and put them on a label that no one is waiting for. Again, can you explain to me the purpose or usefulness of the label as a principle? Because I still don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u25	First of all, I would like to say that your party is also partly guilty of the fact that a proper label that was reliable has been voted off. Then the question of why a label is needed. Of course you can look at the boiler and the double glass, but there are also all kinds of insulation measures that you cannot see. It is really important to know the precise energy consumption of a house, so that you know what the burdens are and whether you are doing wisely to take energy-saving measures. You really need such a label for that; you can't just observe that with the naked eye. The Minister has presented a creative alternative plan, the so-called do-it-yourself label. Creative but in our opinion a far too global methodology. A methodology that gives high probability of error and is therefore unreliable and is problematic because not all homes have the necessary data available. Moreover, this methodology is susceptible to fraud when applying for a definitive label. 'Cause who's to say that photo or offset is from your house or the neighbor's house? It is a label with so much uncertainty and discussion that this is not a real trigger for energy saving. We cannot imagine that mortgage providers will find it a reliable basis and that it is justified to determine rents on this basis. Saving is not well stimulated by the DIY label, and there is much to achieve: 40% of Europe's energy is consumed in buildings. Of course, the fact that the very rapid introduction would be accompanied by chaos was not surprising. The majority who rejected the bill has a great responsibility and was also a bit naive. Of course, rejecting the legislative proposal did not prevent the European directive from being rejected. On 16 December 2014, the Minister said to my oral questions that his DIY label is reliable and that it is his conviction that it will be possible to comply with the European directive and that he is not afraid that the possible penalty of 95 million a year will be imposed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u26	Suppose a very bad directive is being made in Europe and the Netherlands is being asked to implement it. What if the PvdA also thinks that this is a very bad directive? Does Mr De Vries say with his group in all cases of this directive: it has to be from Europe, so let's do it? That's the story he keeps here, blind, in the atmosphere of: it comes at us from above, so let's do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u27	Perhaps I should remind Mr Verhoeven that this directive was drawn up at the initiative of the Netherlands. We have ourselves taken the initiative to come to such an assessment of energy efficiency. Of course not every directive deserves a 10, but Mr Verhoeven is a democrat, I understand. Then you have to implement that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u28	I am a Democrat indeed. This means that we as a party are free to vote in a national parliament for or against a law or motion tabled there. We voted against it with conviction at the time. We had a bad housing market. People were forced to have a label around which there were a lot of uncertainties before they could sell their house. We didn't think that was a good idea. I believe there were more than 100 Members in this Chamber who didn't think that was a good idea either. The PvdA thought that was a good idea and now says to all parties who felt that we should not collapse the housing market at once that it is the fault of the parties who have aligned a bad plan that we now have an even worse plan, with even more chaos. Is that the PvdA's reasoning? Is this the defense line of the Labour Party to save anything from this cabinet's wrangling with energy labels?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u29	Mr Verhoeven sees it right that we blame the majority of the House for referring a proper instrument to the trash can. A sound instrument is really needed to comply with that directive. We're taking all kinds of risks now with a chance of a fine and a lot of hassle. Mr Verhoeven, you yourself mentioned a whole line of them. We had a proper remedy, and that's what killed you. On 18 May, the Minister sent a letter stating that the European Commission does not think that the Netherlands is in good shape. He writes that he can respond to part of the European Commission's criticism by explaining it all again and by making some adjustments if necessary. What changes does the Minister intend to make? For another part, the Minister wants more insight into the criticism. Apparently, that criticism is not clear. That's what he's talking about. Can the Minister state what elements the discussion will be about? Is the Minister still convinced that it will be possible for the Netherlands to comply with the directive in this way? Is the Minister still convinced that this massive sanction of 95 million a year can be averted? Is there also a plan B in case the European Commission does not agree? For example, according to the principle: better in half than in complete error? So back to a system where the on-the-spot label is set for €50 to €60 by an expert and advice is given immediately on what savings measures are worthwhile? The latter remains the key question for us. How does the Netherlands quickly get out of the back in terms of energy savings in buildings? We are curious about the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u30	Mr. Chairman. There are people in this parliament who wave off without ever having made a maiden speech. I think the CDA did not want to take that risk with Mr Ronnes. I congratulate him on his maiden speech. It was, of course, right that the House of Representatives should intervene in 2012 in the roll-out of the European Energy Performance of Buildings Directive. With the motion by Visser and Van Toorenburg we have prevented that energy label from becoming a bureaucratic monstrosity. Last summer, when we visited Denmark, we were confirmed. It costs €7,000 to €8,000 per house to get a label and for that you get a piece of paper. No joules, no watts, no calories saved. Compared to that, this minister has delivered a piece of music. The whole of the Netherlands has an indicative label for free. For less than a tenner, you can make that official for selling your house. Your realtor can get you that, too. That's an administrative success, but now the question. Does the nice gentleman who lives down the street with me have anything to do with that? Because it still feels patronized. The government interferes with his house, restricts him in the free disposal of his property, gives his property a report figure that he doesn't like and then wants to look behind the front door to see if that report figure can possibly be raised a bit. This is not a problem of implementation, but it is the result of European legislation. Hence our fresh reluctance. It's the best option for now, but it doesn't make you happy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u31	I congratulate Mr Van der Linde on his attempt to label the energy as an administrative piece, but I am glad that he also wants to look at the human side. What does the VVD Group think about the government's choice to knowingly send wrong information to households with a label that is far too unfavourable, arguing "at least that will get people moving"? What does Mr. Van der Linde think of that piece of music?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u32	I think we should just ask the Minister. My first impression was that it was mainly clumsy communication at the time the question was put. Do you think it's okay if we just put that question to the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u33	I would also like Mr Van der Linde to answer that. He's using the same terminology as me, which is "clumsy." I see that the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats also finds the intervention of the cabinet to be clumsy. We can ask the Minister to speak in detail in a moment, but now Mr Van der Linde is on the floor. Perhaps it is time for the VVD Group to give an honest answer to a question from a colleague. What does the VVD think about the government knowingly sending a label to households with a letter stating that it is incorrect, that the label is adversely affected and that it should be corrected itself? What does the VVD think of this approach?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u34	I think there's one thing that's gone wrong in communication. That letter should have said, "If you're not going to sell your house, you won't have to do anything for the time being." Where did it go wrong? People got that letter and thought, "Oh, I have to get to work right away." They are massively calling helpdesk, they have gone on the Internet massively and everything has crashed there. That wasn't so convenient.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u35	I have a question for Mr Van der Linde.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u36	I don't think you're allowed to interrupt or was it different?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u37	This will be Mr Ronnes' maiden interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u38	I'd like to see if my surprise is correct. Is it true that the VVD believes that the provision of the labels is more important than its quality? According to signals we receive, the current method ensures that the quality of the labels raises some questions. Does the VVD consider the issue of labels more important than whether good quality information is provided? There's really something wrong with the information in those labels. It is not in line with reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u39	This is the point where I would have liked to interrupt you, but I couldn't. I think it was a motion from CDA and VVD jointly to torpedo that old plan. We have to do something about Brussels. I agree with Mr Madlener that it does not make us happy, but 'the moth does'. I don't like those energy labels. My best energy label is the bill I get from Eneco every month. I don't care.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u40	I just understood from you that you complimented the Cabinet on the way it handled this. That's not the CDA's opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u41	Yeah, because it's practically free for each other. You can hardly charge, you can use your indicative label for less than a tenner.I just heard that it can convert €4 into an official label. Then you can sell your house. I think that's a hell of a piece.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u42	Last remark: because it costs relatively little, you do agree that the certificate should be issued. We believe that the label, the certificate, should be of sufficient quality. And that is absolutely not the issue at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u43	I'll get back to you in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u44	I am listening to this debate with increasing amazement. I hear the VVD doesn't want this at all. The VVD also thinks the label is nonsensical. Eneco's energy bill says Mr Van der Linde enough about the energy performance of a house. I agree with him. But then there is the question of what the VVD is going to do about nonsensical regulations from Brussels, knowing that the VVD has just sent a Commissioner to Brussels, Mr Timmermans, who wants to delete unnecessary regulations. I would ask the VVD Group to agree with me that we should send Mr Blok to Brussels today to fight with Mr Timmermans in Europe to get this label off the table. Do we stop the introduction of this label now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u45	Europe's meddling does indeed have no boundaries. The Minister sent us a letter on Monday on the reasoned opinion; Mr Verhoeven knows what I am talking about. So there is still something waiting for us, because if it is Brussels, it will have to be even more detailed and there will have to be more demands and fines. If it comes to an intergroup procedure, I hope the Minister will take a firm stand against it. Is that an answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u46	I would like a more concrete answer. Mr Timmermans is sitting with your support in Brussels to abolish rules there. You want to abolish this and say: Mr Blok, the introduction is not going well. It seems logical to me that Mr Blok is getting in the car today for a visit to Mr Timmermans to get him to work together in Europe to get this directive off the table. I hear that the VVD Group agrees, but I would also like to get butter on the fish. Will you, together with the PVV Group, ensure that Mr Blok goes to Brussels today to take Mr Timmermans out of this directive?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u47	Whether the Minister is going to Brussels today is up to him. I had the question in my text, and I will come to that in a moment, whether this subject belongs to Commissioner Timmermans' shooting list. As far as I'm concerned, that's where it belongs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u48	I'm a little surprised about the position of the VVD. Apart from Poland and Italy, the Netherlands is the only country that cannot comply with this directive. All these other countries can do that and they would all find it normal. I'm curious to hear how the VVD sees that. Mr Van der Linde says: the Dutch have received a free label. He knows better than I do that free doesn't exist. Surely there have been enormous costs incurred by the Empire to get this system off the ground? How does he look at that? The old label did indeed pay the one who benefited from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u49	Indeed, but that is not close to the €7,000 or €8,000 we have seen in Denmark. That's what I'd like to save people. The same people also have to pay €7,000 or €8,000 more for their new building house, because the PvdA wanted to have that EPC standard accelerated down.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u50	We are not talking about €7,000 or €8,000 in the Netherlands, but about €50 or €60. That is the amount needed to establish a reliable label. Hunting on charges? There's a lot of energy savings. If you're really isolating your house well, that means your living expenses are going down dramatically. So if we can trigger people, they're not gonna pay more, they're gonna pay less.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u51	I have a cooler room at home where I can put 2,000 bottles of wine. Unfortunately I don't have one, but it also takes little effort to think that I'd better pull the plug out of that thing and use that space better as a shed. I do, and to think of that, I don't need an energy label, do I? Mr. Chairman. I still have some questions about the situation in Europe. What is the situation in these other EU Member States?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u52	Mr De Vries, we have heard you twice, but well...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u53	That's right, but if I ask you anything, I'd like an answer. I also asked a question about costs. What exactly does Mr Van der Linde mean by "free"?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u54	Of course, you are absolutely right: there is no free entry, but there are no additional costs. I should have said that; I guess I didn't express myself exactly enough. Mr. Chairman. Procedures are currently under way against the Czech Republic, Italy, the Netherlands, Poland and Austria, but what is the situation in Belgium, Germany and France? Has the directive been put in place to the full satisfaction of the Commission, or is it going to be dealt with in the near future? This, of course, leads to the following follow-up question: which European countries were genuine supporters of this arrangement? Was this a hobby of a few Dutch officials or was there broad support for this? Could it have slipped through by accident? Finally, the question that Mr Madlener is so eager to hear me ask: does the Minister think that this subject belongs on the list of Commissioner Timmermans? I said earlier that the energy label in the light of housing with zero on the meter is a rear-guard fight. We are making spectacular progress in sustainable new construction. Existing construction is being preserved at a high rate through Power Acceleration and other initiatives. If the promise of the Tesla battery in your basement is fulfilled, we'll have homes completely disconnected from the power grid in five years' time. Let us fight that rearguard fight with Brussels and take the label for those few years for granted. It'll be okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u55	After a brief suspension, we are going to listen to the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u56	Mr. Chairman. I shall begin by congratulating Mr Ronnes on his fine maiden speech. It is good to hear that there is a new MP with broad experience, both in business and in local government, as I have heard. A maiden speech reminds everyone of his or her own maiden speech. My maiden speech as a Member of Parliament has been behind me for a while. Ministers do not have a formal maiden speech, but they do have a first time standing here as minister. It can't be a coincidence: for me it was then about the energy label. A number of Members pointed out that there was a rather exciting debate at the time. I followed, quite frankly, in the footsteps of two fellow parties of Mr Ronnes, the Ministers Donner and Spies, who had prepared a law to comply with the EU directive. This implied that a house could only be transferred to the notary if there was an energy label. I also defended that law, but it was not to benefit; he did not make it. A motion was tabled by the CDA and the VVD, which was widely supported. In this motion I was asked to come up with a simpler label, which would remain within the framework of the European directive. On this basis, I consulted the Commissioner responsible, as well as with all kinds of people involved in the housing market, such as the Eigen Huis Association, energy experts and brokers. I also informed the Chamber about the steps I wanted to take and finally opted for an instrument that, as far as I am concerned, fits in perfectly with this time, which is based on an Internet application. The instrument is therefore easily applicable, the costs can be limited and everyone can use it. This indicative energy label has also become part of the Energy Agreement, an agreement which has received broad support in this Chamber. A lot of the parties to this agreement, whether from the employers' and workers' angle or from the environmental angle, indicated that this is not only important for the environment but can also boost housing isolation and hence employment. At the same time, therefore, there was broad support for this instrument. This means that not only is it an instrument inspired by the European directive, which is, moreover, an obligation in the Netherlands, we adhere to laws and a directive has the force of law for a Member State, but it has also been worn a broad in the energy agreement and, as the energy agreement has been widely worn in the Chamber, it has also become an instrument worn in the Chamber. The implementation took place from 1 January; I discussed it earlier in the Chamber. A number of childhood diseases have certainly occurred. As responsible minister, I regret that. I am, of course, responsible for the proper functioning of all the instruments and policies I am dealing with. Of course, it was a very large, far-reaching operation. Millions of households had to be approached and automated files had to be linked. Then, of course, there is always a great chance that there will be children's diseases. That does not alter the fact that it will be my responsibility to deal with it as soon as possible. We have done so by delivering releases every two weeks in which we process the signals we have received. We still do. We are now seeing a number of signals in practice. By now, some 150,000 final labels have been registered. That is more than the number of houses sold: the housing market attracts, but we have not sold 150,000 houses this year. So this indicates that people are actively using it. I had a research report from Bureau Veldkamp put on the Internet, which I also referred to in the letter. Bureau Veldkamp has checked with homeowners how they found the practical applicability. This study shows that the vast majority, around 70%, consider the conversion to a final energy label to be workable. So the image that emerges from the report is that people can use it well. We are happy to see the desired economic impact taking place here and there. Initiatives are now being launched in a number of places. There are municipalities that start working after the energy labels have been provided and which have organised information evenings, often also with local entrepreneurs. There are also business organisations that have been involved in this. When people got the energy label on the mat, it was a good time for local installation and construction companies to approach people with an offer. We have seen this happen here and there. A number of interest groups such as environmental organisations, which have also approached the Chamber, the Dutch Association of Real Estate Agents and the Eigen Huis (Vereniging Eigen Huis), now also stress that we must continue with this form of energy label. They say that the energy label has a long and complicated history, but the step has now been taken; there have been childhood diseases and there is still improvement, but do not throw the child away with the bath water. That's the spirit I want to get to work on. After this general outline, I would like to answer the questions in three categories.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u57	Before the Minister continues with the more substantive blocks, I would like to comment on his earlier words. He talks about "child diseases" all the time. That's a term that's always used to make you feel like it's not that bad, that it's a little clumsy, but that it's beyond that. So I think that's rather light of words for what happened here. Millions of households have received a letter containing all kinds of incorrect information. They'd better fix it themselves. Is that, in the Minister's view, a childhood disease or is that simply an error of assessment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u58	Mr Verhoeven's description is not correct. He talks about "incorrect information," but households have been given an indicative label. That is also explained in detail in the letter, as in this Chamber. Fortunately, the government doesn't exactly keep track of who put double glazing in his house or isolated the floor or roof. However, we can see the type of house and year of construction on the basis of records of the land register. On this basis, we can make an assessment of the energy quality. We also indicate that this is an assessment and that the actual situation will be different if someone has taken additional measures themselves in the meantime. That is why the final label requires an additional step; that is the step via the Internet route. The final is also really needed at the time of rental or sale of the property.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u59	I know, because I got a letter like that myself. You get a letter with an indication based on the criteria mentioned by the minister, but that indication does give people a certain feeling. They think: this is wrong, because I have a much lower label, a much lower letter and a much more energy efficient house. Why did the Minister consciously choose to piss people off and stir them up by sending them a letter saying: we think you have this label, but if it isn't true, you need to act yourself to make sure that we have the right information? That's an error of assessment, isn't it? That's not a childhood disease, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u60	The Chamber has requested a light version of the label. If you want to make a final assessment of a house, you should indeed check whether there is double glazing in it and whether there is floor insulation and/or roof insulation. Once again, fortunately we do not have a central registration of that. If Mr Verhoeven wishes that the label that someone gets is immediately complete and good, then that calls for an inspection. But that would cost a lot more, because that would be an actual visit to the house, and that was precisely what the Chamber wanted to avoid.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u61	I'd like to continue with that. Actually, for this time I agree with D66: a year of construction doesn't say anything about the insulation of a house. After all, most people with an old house have long put double glazing in it and used floor and roof insulation. What percentage of indicative labels are true for older homes?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u62	I don't have any research data on that right now. But this goes back to the question of how to get people, without having to rush them out of their pockets, an ambition that Mr Madlener will be the first to endorse, giving an indication of the energy quality of the houses. In addition, an indication of the year of construction and the type of house. It matters very much whether it is a detached house or an apartment. The letter on indicative labels clearly indicates that those labels are drawn up on the basis of publicly known data.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u63	But your age doesn't say anything about someone's health, does it? You can't say you're 75 years old, so you have these ailments? That's what the Minister's doing now. That is not a childhood disease, but a mere deception of the consumer. However, I am pleased that the Minister knows that the PVV does not want to rush people into unnecessary costs. I just hope that the VVD agrees with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u64	I don't really hear a new question. I just indicated that I would like to answer the questions in three chapters. I shall begin with questions on the energy label, followed by questions on the reasoned opinion procedure, as it is called in fine Brussels jargon, and finally on enforcement and fraud. Mr Ronnes and Mr Bashir asked whether the problems surrounding the energy label have now been resolved. As I said, we do a release every two weeks. Some of the starting problems, I will not use the word 'child diseases' anymore; Mr Verhoeven looks so seriously at me, for example, lack of server capacity, has been solved. With each release we tackle a number of remaining problems. The research carried out by Bureau Veldkamp, from which I have just quoted, but also by the support of the organizations that have to work with it, such as the NVM, Mr Madlener's old friends, show that the system is now workable. In the end, those are the people who judge a lot of those labels. That is not an indication for me to sit back, because I think you should improve every time. This indicates that the biggest problems have been solved and that we can work well with them, but that we will continue to work to do it better and better. Mr Ronnes asked why the start-up problems were there. Again, not as a connoisseur, because I do think that people in the Netherlands can expect a good service, but when implementing a very big new system and linking files you think with many experts for a while and do a number of test runs. You show a number of test groups what screens and applications look like. Then you find out, if something really goes live, that some things aren't good enough. Again, there's no reason to say that it's all okay. I can see that a lot of starting problems have been solved by now. Mr Bashir asked how many wrong labels were issued. I can't really interpret the question. There may also be confusion about the indicative and final label. The indicative label is not wrong; it is based on the files present. The final label shall be assessed remotely by an expert, who shall ensure that the label registered as a final label is a proper label.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u65	In my opinion, it is quite easy to determine how many wrong labels have been issued by looking at how often a definitive label deviates from a provisional label. Then you know how many wrong labels have been issued and sent.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u66	Then the term "wrong" is really used very wrongly. It is an indicative label. There can be no doubt about that, not in the Chamber or in the communication in that letter. It is based on the public data and includes an invitation to the people to take that follow-up step, if they appreciate it. Apparently, 150,000 people, a large part of whom were not engaged in the sale of their house at the time, have that appreciated; it is mandatory for sale or rental. Then you can't say it's wrong. It's indicative.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u67	If the Minister can know in advance that the label does not correspond to reality, he will indeed send a wrong label to the people, even if he calls it an indicative label himself. If you only look at when a property is built and sends an F or G label based on it, it is clear that it probably does not correspond to reality. You don't just piss people off, you tell people wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u68	I would have misinformed you if I didn't put it in that letter that it was an indicative label or if I hadn't reported it here in the Chamber, but it was reported.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u69	I'm just gonna take a step in the Minister's words game. That indicative label has been clumsy; it has been a very clumsy way of working. However, let us agree with the Minister that it was not incorrect information, but information based on very limited quantities of criteria, which actually sent people: you have this label, but if you have done more, you should let us know. I still think this is a bad approach. Then we'll go to the final label. I am very curious how correct that final label is. Can the Minister see to what extent that is true in practice? The final label shall be established remotely by experts. I am curious to see the degree of accuracy of final labels of people who have sold their homes. I would like to know how correct the final label is. That's gotta be right. The Minister agrees with me, doesn't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u70	Sure. That's why you're not just authorized to set such a definitive label. That's why there's a quality assurance system around it. That is why samples are being drawn: can the indications given by this gentleman, this lady or this agency comply with the rules of art? At the moment, I have no indications that this is being tampered with.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u71	No indications? The Minister himself has just said that his own indication is not correct, so an indication is not enough for me. I would like an answer from the Minister to the following question. Can he indicate what he thinks the percentage of correct final labels is? If we were to ask 1,000 people who have just sold their house with a definitive label, would that label match the real energy value of that house, how many of the 1,000 final labels would the Minister say would correspond to the actual energy value of those 1,000 houses? What percentage does the Minister dare to give indicatively?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u72	This is, of course, a strange game of words, to stay in the terms of Mr Verhoeven. There is a quality assurance system for carrying out the title of energy expert. That never means it's flawless. Because it's still human work. However, Mr Verhoeven cannot expect me to go and say what the error rate of the work of experts is. That wouldn't be reasonable. Of course, such a quality system is regularly secured. It is the same kind of quality system that is used in all kinds of other places in society. This certainly does not include the fact that the Minister is going to call out for a moment how many human errors can still occur.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u73	I support the Minister's explanation of the indicative label. That is why we are so opposed to it. Because then someone gets something he can't really do anything with. My question concerns the final label. Mistakes are made; the Minister acknowledges this. What kind of rights do the seller and the buyer have if that final label, after being issued, turns out to be wrong? Is there a system of liability, is there a system of appeal? After all, people can be harmed by this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u74	In any case, there is a review committee that can also be accessed via the website. If people are harmed by an incorrect indication, then of course there is just civil law with liability.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u75	However, there is no provision for a second opinion or compensation in line with the damage actually suffered? In most cases, a consultant is obliged to pay damages up to his fee; that is very limited.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u76	Again, there is a light procedure with a dispute committee and otherwise the ordinary civil law always applies to disputes between the supplier and the customer. Mr Ronnes specifically addressed the label for new buildings. He asked whether they could not be labeled without the intervention of an external expert. It is annoying that the European directive does not allow this, because it obliges the use of an expert. We have also made this light for new buildings by doing it via the internet procedure, but we cannot do without that external expert. Mr Ronnes also asked whether too negative indicative labels were deliberately issued. When the first noises came to the press, I had an investigation conducted by the Nieman office. I shared that investigation with the Chamber and it shows that you cannot say that there are deliberately too negative or positive labels. For a reason, I have also had an external expert party look at this. Mr Madlener asked me to revise the energy label. He has already announced a motion on this subject, but I shall answer the question. The energy label is both a European directive and a national agreement in the energy agreement. So I'm not going to draw a line through this energy label.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u77	I think the Minister's words are such that he is unhappy with the Brussels directive. Perhaps I should ask the question again. Is he happy with the Brussels directive? If not, is he prepared to get this directive off the table together with Mr Timmermans?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u78	A directive has the force of law. In a state governed by the rule of law, you stick to it. Our membership of the European Union means that we are implementing directives. We do not ask each other all day whether we are happy with law X, Y or Z, but we stick to it. In addition, the cabinet has made the indicative energy label part of the energy agreement with many social parties and with broad support in the Chamber. I'll stick to that. Frankly, I see the positive effects that were hoped for then, namely initiatives by homeowners and initiatives from the construction sector that lead to both energy saving and employment. For that reason alone, it would be very unwise to throw that instrument overboard again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u79	A law is a law. A law from Brussels is a law, but there is now a Commissioner, Mr Timmermans, on behalf of the government parties, who has promised to deal with these unnecessary rules. However, I hear Mr Blok saying that he is not entirely happy with that directive either. He says: a law is a law. No, a law can also be amended, and it is up to the government to tackle unnecessary laws from Brussels or at least try to do so. So I ask Mr Blok once again. I know he might be a little stubborn and linear. Is he prepared to see the role of the government wider and say: bad laws from Brussels are we going to try to get rid of them, even if they are laws?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u80	I have not spoken at all about whether I am happy or unhappy. That is irrelevant to a directive. What I certainly support is that we adhere to directives. We're implementing it. If we stop complying with laws and directives, the rule of law will collapse. Also, the Energy Agreement no longer merely provides an energy label based on a European directive, but also a broad-based part of an energy agreement. The aim is both to achieve good environmental impacts and to create jobs. Now I see those first effects happening too. Wouldn't it be very unwise for you to cross that line now? I come to the questions on the procedure from Brussels, the reasoned opinion. Mr Ronnes asked whether it was true that the Netherlands had two months to comply. That is correct, so I will also use these months to clarify to Brussels the points where I think I read in the reasoned opinion that the implementation is simply not well understood in Brussels. It may also be that, for our part, we will adapt a number of parts, for example, of the Building Decision. However, I still have the confidence that, with a good explanation and, where necessary, adjustments to Dutch legislation, we will be able to comply with the European directive. Mr Bashir asked whether the Netherlands is now at the forefront. As I wrote in the letter, the EU Member States have generally implemented the directive, but there are still procedures in place against Austria and the Czech Republic. The way we implemented it, with remote assessments, has only been applied in Norway outside the Netherlands. I have previously sent the Chamber an overview of how the directive has been applied in other countries. Mr Van der Linde, for example, mentioned the variant of Denmark, which sounds rather thorough and expensive. For example, France opted for the variant that was in Donner and Spies' original law but didn't make it to the Chamber. It has therefore been implemented in several ways in Europe, but one cannot say that the Netherlands is the first. Well, you can say that we've really found a, in my opinion, customer-friendly way. The question about Mr Timmermans has just been asked in the event of an interruption. Mr De Vries asked if there was a plan B. I have already indicated that I will use the next two months to clarify the way we have implemented and to adapt legislation where necessary in Brussels. This will probably be mainly about the Building Decision. Then there were a number of questions about the risks of fraud.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u81	I asked the question about the situation in other EU countries. I understand that the Minister says that the directive is for him a given to which he has to deal. I am very curious to see how pleased the European Commission is now with the implementation in those other countries, because that is quite the colour of the way in which we are entering into a possible intergroup procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u82	There are two countries in which I am still saying that, from the outset, proceedings are still pending before the Court. That's the last, hardest step. I also believe that there are four countries which have received a reasoned opinion, but this is mentioned in the letter. The Netherlands is one of them. From this point of view, the European Commission has no reason for concern in other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u83	I now hear the Minister say again, I think, that he assumes that the chance that the Netherlands will be fined is nil. May I draw that conclusion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u84	I am convinced that, with the way we are implementing it now, we are doing this in a very good and civil-friendly way. I am going to use the next two months to convince the European Commission of this. In fact, we are in a procedure of asking questions. We weren't brought before the court. I am also prepared to adapt the Dutch regulations where necessary. In this way, I do indeed want to prevent us from being brought before the Court and faced with a fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u85	That's how I know the Minister. When he has gone down a path, he believes in it, and holds on to it. But if you argue, there are two possible outcomes. It may be that you see it well and that you can fix it. However, this is the third time that the Netherlands has received a clue. It is not entirely clear that the European Commission does not accept this. And the minister doesn't have a plan B. Is he still convinced that that fine will not be imposed?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u86	In a rule of law, anyone can go to court. The European Union is also a rule of law, so the European Commission can also do so. It would be wrong for me to say that she cannot do that. However, I am convinced that, perhaps with some adjustments in the way we implement in the Netherlands, it is not necessary to take that step. That is what my commitment will be for the next few months. Mr Ronnes asked about the possibility of imposing fines. The law currently offers the possibility to impose a penalty charge on a homeowner. The big advantage of this is that people will first receive a letter from the Inspection Environment and Transport stating that there is no label and that it can be restored. If we do not respond in good time, we shall still be given an announcement of the burden under penalty payment. Then there's still the opportunity to adjust it. Only when it hasn't happened will the penalty be paid. The administrative fine in the novelle on the Housing Act will indeed enter into force on 1 July. This is a fine that is necessary in case the external expert would cross the line, for example by issuing incorrect labels. That fine can indeed be applied from 1 July. I hope that I have also answered Mr Ronnes' question about how ILT will address property owners. Both Mr Verhoeven and Mr De Vries commented on the sensitivity to fraud at the time when a homeowner would provide incorrect data. First of all, of course, there is the external expert's control. However, people can be creative in taking photos, for example in another house without being able to see it right away. When entering the house by the new owner you do so on the morning that you go to the notary and otherwise after that it turns out of course immediately that the owner has been deceived. Then it comes under the type of deception that hopefully is minimal, but unfortunately more common around the purchase and sale of houses. This immediately leads to the possibility to claim compensation from the seller first between themselves, but if necessary through the courts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u87	I find this case very interesting, because normally a seller is obliged to report and a buyer is obliged to investigate. But this label is trusted, I suppose. The Minister guarantees a certain accuracy. The buyer might be inclined to abandon his obligation to investigate, because there is a label that the government has made mandatory and for which guarantee committees and I know what have been set up. So the buyer is going to rely a little on the label being correct. If the label is not correct, you can go to the seller. But the liability of the experts and of the government that set up this label, can't you also level out? After all, a kind of truth or certainty is sold with this label. That's what it's supposed to be, isn't it? How's the Minister handling that question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u88	The functioning of the rule of law is discussed several times in this debate. Fortunately, it is not the case that the government can be held liable as a house salesman knowingly and knowingly provide incorrect information. Then the seller of the house is quite rightly the liable party. It will also take no effort to force that liable party if it has to go to court for damages.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u89	If you deliberately cheat on the experts, I understand you're taking responsibility for yourself. But very often a mistake can occur and a wrong label is put on which the buyer relies. Afterwards, it turns out it wasn't correct after all. What about liability if the mistake was not made knowingly and knowingly, but was created by other causes? The PvdA has already asked this question, and rightly so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u90	The question I answered was, how do you deal with fraud? That is why, as an example, I mentioned the photos of double glazing in the neighbor's house that are being uploaded as if they were from his own house. That's really deliberate fraud. I am trying to summarize the case presented by Mr Madlener. The label was put on C by an outside expert, but he made a mistake. Where people work, people can occasionally make mistakes. I've indicated before that I can't rule that out. If this causes damage, it is first for the external expert to provide the correct label. I think it's reasonable that he doesn't charge for that. When two parties do business with each other and one party suffers damage from the actions of the other, in general, you first try to restore them. Fortunately, it usually does, but if that really doesn't work out, there's the way to the judge. That's not unique for this label. I hope I have answered the questions from the first time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u91	I was talking to the Minister at the beginning of the debate about the final energy labels and the real values. The Minister said that there are all kinds of safeguards as to whether or not to be expert in establishing that final label. Is the Minister prepared to examine, on the basis of a sample of a number of definitively supplied labels, to what extent they correspond to the real energy value of the houses in practice? I would still like it if we could somehow find a way out of this. I would also like the Minister to take his own approach. If we have some definitive labels at some point, we need to know how good they are. It is ultimately a question of the labels providing reliable information.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u92	I think this is a very reasonable question from Mr Verhoeven. He's actually asking to check if the system, if it works for a while, actually works the way we intended it. I think it is logical that we should do so a little later this year, because then we will have a larger sample. I will then have such an investigation done and share the results with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u93	That's nice. Perhaps, in his second term, the Minister could indicate what time limit he intends to link to it. So I am not talking about indicative labels; we have already talked about this. I said I thought that was a clumsy choice. I am concerned about the final labels that are provided, for example, because someone is selling his house and so needed that final label. After some time, but still this year, I want to know how reliable these labels are globally, what margin there is and how we can improve things.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u94	I understand. It is about the final labels and the question whether they really show what they need to show. That's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u95	I thank the Minister. I shall suspend the sitting until noon and then move on to the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u96	Mr. Chairman. We are pleased that the Minister acknowledges that the start was difficult and that there were the necessary problems. We are also pleased to hear him say that there is some improvement in this. I refer further to the deception and the explanation given to it. The Minister says that in the coming months it will be examined how quality can be better achieved and whether it is necessary to adapt the rules for this purpose. That's what we're waiting for. We hope that the reaction will be sent to the Chamber as soon as possible so that the necessary measures can be taken. One point remains for us, and that is the delay in new buildings because the energy label cannot be issued in time. In our view, it is undesirable for citizens and businesses to delay this process, which could cause them financial difficulties.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u97	Thank you. That's great. Is there anything else you'd like to say?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u98	Yes. I'd like to make a motion on this. Depending on the answer, I intend to hold or withdraw this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u99	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u100	May I read the motion? [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the introduction of the energy label is not flawless;]] [[noting that the provision of the final energy label to new buildings takes unnecessary time;]] [[noting that the builders and developers do not, or do not deliver a final energy label to the buyer in time for delivery, while it is inconceivable that new houses that are now delivered will score a lower final energy label;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how to automatically award a final energy label A in the event of the delivery of new buildings and to inform the Court of Justice of this fact as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Ronnes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30196-310]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u101	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u102	Mr. Chairman. In my first term, I indicated to the Minister that the SP was dissatisfied with the way the energy labels were issued. The SP is also dissatisfied with the quality of the energy labels, because they often do not say so much about the expectations for consumption. I have to say, I haven't gotten any happier with the Minister's answers. He says: we look every two weeks at the changes that are being passed on and we analyse them. But he cannot, for example, indicate how many energy labels have been wrongly issued in the provisional form. The same applies to the European Commission, which talks with the Minister. The Minister is willing to change the rules if necessary. This will, of course, have consequences, including the energy labels that have already been issued. As far as we are concerned, citizens should not be put back on the line because the negotiations between the Minister and Europe mean that energy labels need to be changed. My questions have not been answered. Will the Minister ensure that citizens are not put at a cost if the talks show that all energy labels need to be changed?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u103	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. In my first term, I described the way in which the energy labels were carried out by the cabinet, with the label G, 'clumsy, messed up and messed up'. I believe that the indicative label approach still deserves anything but a beauty prize, and that the term 'child disease' is too light for that. It did happen: all people got that letter and got to work. We are now at the stage of final labels. I am pleased that the Minister, as I have requested, is prepared to consider how we can properly examine the reliability of the final rules. I'm left with two other small points. The first is the explicit coulance. If someone who is disadvantaged by an error in the system is forgiven for fine, I ask the Minister. And how exactly is the interim adjustment option regulated when someone makes an extra investment or wants to correct a mistake? What are the possibilities for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u104	Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by congratulating Mr Ronnes on his maiden speech. I forgot that in my first term. I thought it was a wonderful story, too, that he put down with power. Then I would like to comment on the debate. There are many young people in the gallery who come here to see how democracy works in the Netherlands. We have heard that: it has to be because it has to be from Brussels. That, of course, is not the message we must give to the people of the country. Rules from Brussels are sometimes wrong. Mr Timmermans was sent out by the government parties to do something about it. In fact, it turns out that the government is absolutely not prepared to get that directive off the table. No, we are only talking to Brussels about whether we are doing well and whether we are going to be ready to pay the fine again if it is not good. That is not, of course, the intention of democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u105	This disappoints me, because it is precisely such a fine example of how democracy works. Two parties in the House of Representatives who are always opposed to each other, the PVV of Mr Madlener and D66 of mine, together, voted against the proposal to adopt a law of the European Union in no uncertain terms in 2012. I would like Mr Madlener to mention that example of democracy to the young people sitting here in the gallery. Otherwise they will get the false idea that democracy does not make sense and so they but I can say it now, because see that they are almost gone and should vote for the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u106	Indeed, they run fast now that they hear D66, and I understand that. After all, the House says in a large majority: we are not comfortable with the whole energy label and we are not comfortable with the directive either. But then what happens next? Nothing at all! I haven't heard anyone table a motion saying: "Block, go and raise that in Brussels." I have called for it and Mr Blok has said: I am not going to do that, because I am just going to talk about whether the Netherlands is doing well. So that is very slavish after Brussels, and that is not, of course, the example we should set.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u107	Beautiful, but then I'd say motion is motion. Are you going to read a motion yourself or do you not have one yourself?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u108	I'm gonna read it to you in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u109	Okay, great!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u110	Therefore, the Netherlands should not slavishly go after Brussels, but should get bad guidelines off the table. That was also the promise of the Commissioner who is now in Brussels. Unfortunately, however, the government is not prepared to do so, which disappoints me very much. What has been said about the implementation of the energy label is also wrong. That's why I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the energy label does not have any added value for consumers and only hunts them for costs;]] [[noting that the introduction of the energy label is accompanied by a lot of chaos and uncertainty;]] [[calls on the Government to abolish the mandatory energy label,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Madlener. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30196-311]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u111	Mr. Chairman. It has been discussed extensively in this Chamber that we need to make less use of the gas in Groningen and that we need to be more energy independent. I assume that the PVV has absolutely nothing with Mr Putin either. If you don't have that, you have to think about saving energy in the built environment where 40% of all our energy goes to. Now that this label is so half-baked, the PvdA wants to file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that in issuing final energy labels for housing, there is little attention paid to sound advice on the sustainability of the property in question by the EPA consultant;]] [[Whereas the objective of energy labelling and the energy agreement is to achieve energy savings in the built environment;]] [[noting that the current labels are insufficient to provide a basis for mortgage providers to allow owners to benefit from broader mortgage standards;]] [[calls on the Government to quickly present a proposal allowing any final energy label applicant, if he so wishes, to receive a tailor-made advice from the EPA consultant,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Albert de Vries. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30196-312]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u112	I also got my own energy label. The Minister says it says very clearly that it is an indicative label. Well, the word "indicative" doesn't say "for the time being." We should not make a word game of it, but it gives a slightly different impression, in the sense that a reasoned statement has been made. It also says that there are a number of things not known. In addition, my employee who lives in Amsterdam has not received a label at all. The point is that there is no data available from 2% to 3%. How are we gonna help these people? I have also heard the Minister say that he is extremely confident that he will come to an agreement with the EU. I didn't hear him say he'd rule out the fine. I find that disturbing, as well as the fact that there is no plan B. I call on the Minister to check, in accordance with Mr Van der Linde's request, how it is regulated in other countries and what the EU is content about and whether there are no examples there that can be better applied to the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u113	Mr. Chairman. There is no misunderstanding, the VVD considers energy saving to be of great importance and it is also of great importance to Europe, but that does not automatically mean that we are happy with an energy label imposed by Europe. We have to be realistic. This is the cheapest way we can comply with the rules. It has broad support, including from environmental organisations, and at the same time we can see that progress in construction is so fast that there is every reason to work on the directives. So until then, we're gonna have to do it. I'll stick with the fact that the best energy label is the bill I get from Eneco every month.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u114	Mr. Chairman. First of all, Mr Ronnes' motion on item No. 310 asking the government to investigate. My natural tendency when asked to conduct an investigation, whether that question comes from a coalition party or from an opposition party, is to do so reasonably. But what is being asked for here is really in breach of the European directive. It is explicitly stated that a final energy label is automatically granted. We already know the answer to that, because the European directive does not allow automation. For that reason, I must advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u115	If I were to formulate the motion in such a way that it is not the word "automatic" but to see how you can change the procedure so that the delay that is currently taking place can be removed? So can the Minister see whether the process can be simplified or otherwise arranged so that the delay does not occur for citizens and entrepreneurs?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u116	If it is possible to look at how the process can be simplified, I am happy to say so. But then perhaps we can do it in such a way that I promise the Chamber that my own will receive a letter within a month. Mr Ronnes does not have to table the motion. You can do that anytime. It's not up to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u117	Agreed. I can live with that promise.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u118	Then I'll give you that investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u119	What does that mean in practice? Are you holding the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u120	With the Minister's promise, we will withdraw the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u121	Since the Ronnes motion (No ) has been withdrawn, has ceased to be the subject of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u122	Mr Verhoeven answered the question when I could carry out research into the quality of the final energy labels. I actually wanted to do that research this autumn and present it to the Chamber before the end of this year. Mr Verhoeven also asked whether there could be coulance for property owners with problems. First of all, there is a helpdesk for practical solutions. In addition, the ILT will not confront people who run into technical problems with fines, because in such a case, of course, people are in default without fault. Mr Verhoeven further asked how it could be ensured that people could change the energy label in between. This is one of the new releases coming up. That is indeed the question at the top of the list: a final energy label has already been registered and people want to change it. This release is supposed to be available for the summer. Mr Madlener's motion for a resolution (Doc. 311 calls on the government to abolish the mandatory energy label. I have also indicated in the first time that I am not prepared to do so, both because of the European directive and because of the agreement we made in the energy agreement. Mr De Vries' motion for a resolution (Doc. 312 calls on the Government to present a proposal to allow any final energy label applicant to receive a customised advice from an EPA consultant automatically and at a low cost. That seems superfluous to me, because it is already the case that every applicant for a label can also go to such an advisor, so I consider the motion in this version superfluous.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u123	Does that also dissuade the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u124	Yeah, well, that also dissuade this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u125	The Minister is going to have talks with Europe to see how the Netherlands can still comply with the directive. In doing so, the Minister indicated that he was prepared to amend the law. I asked twice whether the Minister could promise that this would not entail additional costs for citizens. I fear that all labels will soon have to be re-adjusted. I haven't received a response to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u126	Mr Bashir is right. I only referred to the motions for resolutions, but he had indeed asked a supplementary question. I have indicated that, if necessary, I will amend the Building Decision, but I do not foresee that the whole system will need to be substantially adapted. I do not foresee that there will be high costs. I will inform the Chamber of the outcome of my discussions with Brussels.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u127	I asked about the category of people whose data are not known. How are they supposed to get a label?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u128	Mr De Vries is also right. It was even about his associate, that's how I understood it. I use the term as Mr De Vries advised me to use the provisional energy label: the municipal basic administration and the administration of the Land Registry. Of course, I assume that Mr De Vries' collaborator is duly registered at the address where he lives, but unfortunately a link of files depends on the quality of the data. By the way, I have unintentionally made a suggestion about Mr De Vries' colleague. I shouldn't have done that. It is also possible that people without making a mistake are not properly in files. It happens sometimes that a house is still in the name of a deceased person. That doesn't have to do with bad faith. It is possible, for example, that an inheritance has not yet been settled. The advantage of linking files is that the vast majority of people with very little load can provide information. The handicap is that those files still do not match at all somewhere. That will be the case here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u129	I had already thought of that myself, but I ask the Minister what the route is for these people to get an energy label when they want to sell the house.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u130	People can then apply for an energy label through the paper procedure. That's happening right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u131	Mr De Vries will pass on the employee's address during lunch so that the Minister can check it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u132	I thank the Minister for his presence. We shall vote on the remaining two motions for resolutions next Tuesday.
