ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u1	Minister Asscher, I invite you to begin your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u2	Mr. Chairman. It is a great pleasure for me to be able to discuss with the Chamber the Law's approach to bogus constructions. I would like to thank the House very much for the invitation to do so at such short notice and for the fact that it is a subject for plenary debate today. The core of the legislative proposal is that employees are given more opportunities to receive the wages they are entitled to. It has rightly been stated on all sides that a law in itself will never solve all the problems and that therefore much more must be done than the introduction of this law alone. The examination of the proposal provides a good opportunity to address the cabinet's ambitions for a broader approach to bogus constructions. In the social agreement in 2013, we agreed not only to look at labour law, the relationship between firm and flex and the right of dismissal, but also to tackle bogus structures. The reason was and is the increasing number of signals from the Inspection SZW and from collective bargaining practitioners about abuses in which all kinds of constructions led to underpayment. With the social partners, intensive discussions have been held on how to tackle bogus structures and the measures that can be taken against them, such as the introduction of chain liability for wages. The cabinet's commitment to dealing with bogus constructions includes much more than this new law. It is also about increased commitment to enforcement, better cooperation between public and private enforcers, agreements and cooperation with other Member States in the European Union and information. More is needed both at national and European level. That is why we are committed to a review of the WML. At the time, when the WML was being discussed everywhere, and also here, it was announced that this revision would be necessary, partly on the initiative of several members of this Chamber. The European debate on, for example, the Detaching Directive, the Enforcement Directive to be implemented in the Netherlands and the approach to bogus self-employment, which has been raised here by various groups, are a high priority for the cabinet. After answering a number of questions on this proposal, I will briefly mention them. The bill's approach to bogus constructions includes measures to counter underpayment and better enforce it. Firstly, these are measures to improve the enforcement of existing legal standards by the inspection. Payment of the statutory minimum wage can be maintained because requirements are imposed on the pay slip. Employers are obliged to pay the minimum wage. This makes it easy to determine whether or not payments are made and whether employees are given full access to the statutory minimum wage. The rules on set-off and retention, the prohibitions, also serve this purpose. Secondly, the legislative proposal contains measures to improve the compliance and enforcement of the collective agreement by private enforcers. The bill provides collective bargaining tools to prevent periods without a general binding declaration. This is important because the collective agreement cannot be maintained without such an agreement. With the chain liability for pay, there is an incentive to better comply with collective agreements and to address non-compliance. Thirdly, the draft law contains tools for public-private cooperation in enforcement. For example, the Inspection SZW will be able to pass on suspicions of non-compliance with the collective agreement to private collective bargaining officers. Existing inspection data may soon be included in the collective agreement compliance investigation which the inspection can carry out at the request of collective bargaining parties. With all these measures, the legislative proposal facilitates public and private enforcement of working conditions and public-private cooperation to that end. In addition to effectiveness, capacity is of course important. I've been able to provide additional resources temporarily, up to 35 fte's. The inspection has therefore had a special team for two years to deal with bogus constructions. In the latest progress report, which I sent to the Chamber in February, I reported on the results from that additional capacity. At that time, 76 investigations had been carried out into bogus structures and 27 requests from collective bargaining parties for collective compliance investigations to support private enforcement. I will give you the more recent figures that Mr Backer asked me for in the first term. GroenLinks asked if there were any possibilities to improve the further effectiveness and deployment of the inspectors.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u3	The Minister talks about a temporary reinforcement of enforcement by 35 FTEs. Can he answer the question of why this is temporary, how long this temporaryity lasts and what will happen afterwards?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u4	At that time, until 2017, resources were found for the reinforcement, precisely to give an incentive to the approach to false constructions. It will not surprise Mrs Strik that I expect that we will need this additional capacity afterward. Then, in the period when we were actually making extra cuts, extra money was found for 35 fte's and therefore some more inspectors. They now show that their work is very worthwhile. Then we have to look again at how we deal with the resources. I am convinced that this should remain a priority in the coming years. Mrs Strik also asked for opportunities to further improve effectiveness and commitment. That's very important. It is not just about absolute capacity in the total number of inspection workers, but also about how we deploy them. Just this year, we will continue to inspect information-driven and risk-oriented, thereby increasing the chances of getting to grips with abuses. This includes modern means of information and good arrangements for exchange, including with other state inspections and other enforcement services. As a result, we can leave the honest, bona fide entrepreneur much more alone and increase the chance of catching others. In this context, it is important that we continue to improve cooperation and the exchange of information with a number of other Member States. We have made bilateral agreements with Bulgaria, Romania and Poland, which we are now stepping up further. That makes it easier for our inspection to maintain. By adapting legislation and regulations so that better enforcement can be achieved, we are also increasing the effectiveness of the inspection. The use of criminal law is used as an ultimatum remedium. This means that it is always considered whether it has added value to other instruments, and whether application is possible. Through proper consultation with the Public Prosecutor's Office, you can sometimes send out a very powerful signal through the use of criminal law. However, it is not always the most effective choice. However, it is one of the things that we have in mind to achieve more with existing capacity. GroenLinks and D66 asked whether you should better enforce the existing laws rather than present this proposal now. The tone of Mr. Backer's introduction also raised this question: there are many good intentions, but first just implement the old law. I think it should be both. I think you need serious enforcement to deal with this problem and an inspection with teeth that does its job in a good and modern way. However, I believe that this issue also calls for a review of existing legislation. That's exactly what we did. That has led to this proposal. Additional attention is required for dummy constructions, because you can see that there are parties that are using and designing increasingly complex constructions. It is also necessary because the inspection of the existing legal framework is encountering fairly serious enforcement problems. This applies, for example, to the set-off. A number of inspection cases have been referred back by the judge and, on the basis of the current legislation, have ended up on the shelf, whereas we actually believe that the companies concerned, contrary to the intention of the law, did not pay the minimum wage through all kinds of set-offs. Both must therefore: adequate and modern enforcement, but also consider how the law can be improved. That's what this law's gonna do. The prohibition of deductions and netting makes it easier to establish, and also to prove to the court, whether the minimum wage has been paid or not. The mandatory specification of pay slip expenses and mandatory overnight payments serve the same purpose. I mentioned in my introduction the private enforcement, which can get signals from the inspection. It is all crucial, but that does not alter the self-righteous remark that the existing laws must also be enforced adequately and properly. D66 asked about the state of play regarding the number of inspections in the field of labour market fraud. The numbers have just been released. In 2014, the inspection carried out 5,054 inspections in the field of labour market fraud, with an enforcement rate of 18,6. In the annual plan for this year, the number of inspections to be carried out under the Foreign Labour Act, the WML and the WAADI has been set at 4,000 cases with a bandwidth of up to 5,000. This means that these things are often more complex and larger, precisely because we are tackling them risk-oriented, but we do think we can achieve a very strong number of things in this year. I sent the annual inspection report to the Chamber last week on 18 May, to be precise.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u5	The Minister needs to help me. How am I supposed to interpret that 18.6%?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u6	It concerns the number of inspections that have led to forms of enforcement. That could be a case, a fine or a warning. One in five inspections led to this. As that percentage increases, you can say that the inspection becomes more effective. 100% is not good either, because then you have the feeling that you miss a lot. The aim is to achieve an optimum level, and we must also realise that there is and will continue to be an arms race in part. One of the key elements of the first-term debate is the chain liability for wages. There has of course also been a lot of discussion about this in discussions with social partners and with the House of Representatives. The measure aims in particular at preventing underpayment in procurement chains. Workers will be given more opportunities to receive, in the event of underpayment, the wage to which they are entitled. This underlines the responsibility of clients for the correct compliance with working conditions in their chain. That responsibility is also obvious, because the work is done for clients. The bill, more specifically the risk of being held liable for underpayment, encourages clients to actively address that responsibility. Therefore, the legislative proposal in the explanatory memorandum also provides tools for clients. It is described how you can prevent underpayment in the chain. That is the preventive effect I referred to in the written procedure. That's exactly what the Cabinet wants. We want clients, with this law in hand, to ask themselves: have we arranged it properly, do we do enough, are our chains and our contracts organised so that people get paid what they are entitled to? Several sectors are already preparing for the opportunities offered by chain liability. This therefore encourages private agreements on working conditions to be respected and workers to receive the wage in force. The VVD and the Labour Party asked about the applicability of chain liability to the transport sector. If, in the transport sector, the client uses contract contracts or employment, the employee may use chain liability in similar ways as in other sectors. The usual forms of employment contract are eligible for this. The chain liability for wages is aimed at correct pay to employees and does not see the introduction of additional liability for carriers or those who transport or have them transported. For the time being, therefore, it has not been possible to allow liability to apply to transport or expedition agreements. In addition, we see that the complexity of situations in which the transport or shipping agreement is used consciously plays a role. Complicating factor is that an employee on a truck, ship, train or plane often carries out work for several principals at the same time. For example, a truck often contains loads from several clients. In a payment period of one month, for example, the employee often drives for a large number of clients. This leads to a multitude of chains, so it would go too far at the moment to hold every client liable. The advantage of these chains is that the employee is not dependent on one or a few clients for his income and less sensitive to downward price pressure. This reduces the risk of underpayment in such situations. The SP has asked whether the chain liability should not be more applicable than just on pay. It is not excluded in advance that we will do so in the future. We are now introducing chain liability for wages for the categories indicated here. We must allow practice to do its job. However, it is not excluded that the chain liability will be extended in the future. We are going to look at this, of course, as I also agreed under this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u7	Can the Minister indicate what would be the reason for extending this chain liability, whether there will be reports or an evaluation to the Chambers and what period of time this will take place?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u8	It is agreed to evaluate the law fairly quickly, even after a period of three years if I am not mistaken. Maybe someone can nod? Yeah, there's nodding. After three years, the law is already under review. In particular, you will see how the practice has developed and whether the objectives pursued by the cabinet in this legislative proposal have been achieved. You will therefore consider whether the assumptions underlying the choices we have now made have proved to be valid in relation to chain liability under the Expedition Agreement. At a time when there is still a major problem, the cabinet could consider extending chain liability. At present, we are making a conscious choice for the agreements which are mainly used for labour. We think we can achieve great added value. You should not rule out that it will be extended in the future, but I really think that is a subject for evaluation. I think you should be careful to add intermediate neck-over-head categories. Such a law should, in practice, be given an opportunity to prove its added value and achieve its intended effects.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u9	Does "expand" mean extending it to other types of agreements?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u10	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u11	He doesn't mean extending it to elements other than pay, for example?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u12	It could be. So you could have that discussion, but I was referring to other agreements following Mrs Sent's question. The Labour Party and other parties have asked whether the sectors have sufficient time to develop the sectoral mark in connection with the entry into force of the Act on 1 July. That is of course an important question, but it is also an incredibly important issue, because you want to introduce that law as soon as possible to deal with abuses. The bill requires employers and clients to behave as a decent employer or client. That is nothing new in itself, and it should be nothing new. Nor should the significance of the label be exaggerated in this light. The label is an option for clients or employers to shape the non-disclosure, the disapproval, and thus to give each other more clarity. However, even with that label, even with that form of clarity, an employer or a client, Mr Backer, still described that, in a possible course of law, he could still be held to be culpable. After all, if such a mark is only a paper tiger, if you don't act like it or if there are other circumstances that make a judge hold everything accountable to you, you can't hide behind such a mark. In the same way, before there is such a mark, it is possible not to be reproachable, to dissuade yourself if you have behaved properly as an employer or client and can show that. Moreover, precisely because it is important to bring the law into force quickly, information has already begun. There have been extensive discussions with different sectors. I'll give you an overview so that everyone knows what they can count on. I think that many employers and clients, when this law was adopted unanimously in the House of Representatives, have taken into account the possibility that the law might pass here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u13	The law is of course not passed by the law until this Chamber votes in favour. Only then will there be certainty for the employers. It concerns not only the introduction of a label, but also the whole list of handles which is very helpful in the explanatory memorandum. Is there enough time to process them all in the administrations to comply with the law as soon as it enters into force?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u14	That's true. In the case of chain liability in particular, we have a huge interest in bringing it into effect on 1 July. We did not opt for a later entry into force of the retention ban for nothing, because we realise that this can also have consequences in the administration. I am therefore very committed to ensuring that this chain liability is not dependent on the labels. However, if the Court states that it is concerned, in particular, about the administrative aspects of some of those handles relating to the technical processing of the statutory minimum wage, I would certainly like to look again at this to see whether those legal provisions are eligible for later entry into force. I heard the Chamber right about that. The political key point, the obligation to act as a decent employer and client, does not tolerate any delay. If I may take your speech in such a way that you are concerned about the technical processing of certain rules on pay slips and so on, I must admit that there is a certain degree of reasonableness in this. They also asked about the chain liability and the role of the government as the client. As a client, the government has a special responsibility, precisely because of its public function. All clients and government contractors, such as Rijkswaterstaat, are responsible for preventing or correcting abuses, such as underpayment in the procurement chain. In the case of liability, the public authority may also rely on non-disclaimability. If the government contractor makes sufficient efforts to stimulate bona fide behavior and deter malicious behavior, it will not be the case that the client will pay for shortcomings of an entrepreneur in the chain. But the law is meant for all clients, whether they belong to the public sector or not. The VVD asks how a distinction is made between an employee and azzp'er. A client may not always see whether he is dealing with an employee orzzp'er, Mrs Kneppers noted. Only employees can indeed make use of the chain liability for wages. That is at the heart of the proposed regulation. Only if there is a contract of employment and underpayment can it be held liable. Azzp'er can't do that. The nature of the employment relationship is still to be determined on the basis of the employment relationship declaration. If this system has been adapted, model agreements will be used. In doing so, the Tax Administration has a role, to which clients can have a hold. In fact, however, that is perhaps less important in Mrs Knippers' speech. It is the employee who makes an employer or client liable. The judge shall, where appropriate, give an opinion on the level of underpayment. If there is any doubt as to the nature of the employment relationship, the court may also rule on the nature of the employment relationship. The judge then looks at the specific circumstances of the case. This was also discussed in the oral consultation I had with the First Chamber. It is now possible that a lawyer may appeal to the court to suspect the existence of a contract of employment. If the court finds that there is an employment contract, that person may make use of the chain liability for remuneration. If the judge finds that there is self-employment, there are other ways available to collect not the salary but the rate or the take-up sum. For example, interested parties can insure themselves against paying clients or request part of the contract amount as an advance. GroenLinks asks how we can help employees who are underpaid. In the context of compliance monitoring, the inspection shall impose a penalty charge on underpayment in order to enforce post-payment. That's a pretty strong leverage to still pay. In addition, this legislative proposal makes it possible for collective bargaining officers to be given the name and place of business of the employer if information necessary for the monitoring of collective agreements is obtained. If our inspection finds that there is no payment in accordance with the collective agreement, we can pass on the name and back number to the responsible collective agreement enforcers, in order to ensure that pay is made there as well. The Wet approach also gives more possibilities to achieve your own justice. It concerns the bottom two links in the chain, directly through joint and several liability and then step by step. Trade unions can also play a role in this. I do not object to Mrs Sent's state-law interpretation. That's why I'm standing here today with fire defending this law. I realize and have experienced before I come up with the WML and the contract agreement that if a bill is not accepted here, it is not there either. Precisely because this serves such a great social interest and we have to take into account the possibility of the law making it, we have been informed through the website reichsoverheid.nl, the Entrepreneur's Square, a newsletter and social media. If the First Chamber agrees, it will be extended. The various sectors and trade associations have worked on a series of articles in trade journals, magazines of trade associations, home-to-home magazines and other relevant magazines. All this for the sake of cultivating a good understanding of the functioning of the law in order to promote its proper use.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u15	This Chamber may be prickly if information campaigns start before a law is passed. In consistency with my argument, I believe that the functioning of this law will have an effect mainly because it is known that the law is there and not so much because of its actual system. In this case, therefore, the Chamber should allow that to happen. That's different from the technical preparation of pay slips and all that more. After all, as I have just listened to the Minister, 80% of employers are bona fide, but 100% have to prepare it. In that light, apart from the preparatory work now, the date of 1 July is very tight.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u16	First of all, thank you for recognising the fact that in some cases some form of information can be obtained in order to increase the impact of a law. I agree with Mr Backer that this is certainly the issue here. That's not unique to this law either. Not for nothing have we forbidden theft in the law and we hope that people will abide by it. The article is really meant not only to punish the thief, but also to set a standard. Clients and employers also have to deal with a standard set by the legislator. There's nothing wrong with that. Furthermore, it is crucial that we make it clear on 1 July that that responsibility is there. In the interrupting debate with Mrs Sent, I indicated that I was sensitive to those parts of the law which indeed require a technical adjustment in the payroll administration. Secondly, I will make a more precise commitment to the Court on this point to remove that legitimate concern from the Chamber. Indeed, employers and clients should be able to prepare themselves for this, which does not affect the responsibility they actually already have to pose as a decent employer and client. Mrs Sent has a point with regard to salary administration. I am going to make this a little more precise later, so that I can make it clear to those concerned at once. However, it will amount to the entry into force of those provisions containing rules on the technical aspects of labour cost specifications around the WML as of 1 January instead of 1 July. I had not gotten to the ban on deductions, a much discussed subject, also because it looks very differently at what it will bring about in practice. That, of course, is seen on the one hand in insane, yes hideous examples of deductions we have seen, in which people paid for the wear and tear of the road they drove across and in which people paid crazy amounts for food that they were obliged to take. On the other hand, it has rightly been said that there are decent employers who want to arrange decent housing or decent health insurance for their employees. With this bill we want to ensure that at least the statutory minimum wage is paid. Therefore, there should be no uncertainty as to the amounts withheld. It is, of course, not acceptable to obtain financial benefits at the expense of employees by withholding unreasonable amounts or by withholding amounts on unreasonable grounds, while in fact reducing wages for an employee. Of course, employers can mediate in the development of health insurance. This is also possible because the employer agrees with the employee that the employee pays the cost of the premium per direct debit. The law provides the possibility to allow deductions on the minimum wage for AMvB. I have promised the House of Representatives to send a letter with the terms and the mares and the pros and cons before 1 June. I have also indicated the involvement of a number of elements in its assessment. What would be a maximum amount? What is the quality of the housing and health insurance you would like to record? How do you ensure transparency in order to prevent all kinds of things from happening that cannot stand the light of day? How can you guarantee that, for example, the housekeeper and the location are known so that they are also subject to supervision? A focus on the development is the recent European case law on pay to posted workers and the reimbursement of housing costs. The ruling of the European Court of Justice last February makes it clear once again that the employer may not include housing amounts on the minimum wage in respect of posted workers if he is obliged to reimburse such costs, for example under the collective agreement. On the one hand, this shows that the European Court of Justice, too, makes the worker's right to always receive the minimum wage heavy. On the other hand, it points to the complexity you face if you wanted to settle it in an AMvB. However, as stated by the VVD, it is also a risk if employees would be uninsured as the health insurance premium should no longer be withheld. If employers feel involved in the workers' stay and are helping them in a fair way in arranging health insurance, they may be expected to continue to do so. They can make clear agreements with employees on the payment of the premium, for example by collecting it by direct collection. In addition, there is the possibility to keep amounts above the minimum wage. This will in any case be the minimum holiday allowance, which is at least 8% of the wage. This is, in most cases, sufficient to cover sickness insurance contributions. However, this does not rule out the fact that in some cases the minimum holiday allowance is not sufficient to cover the premium, for example in the case of a number of youth workers or in the case of people who work very few hours. That is one of the reasons why I made the commitment to the Chamber. I am going to take this particular point into account. Of course, I will send that letter to the Chamber and I will do everything in my power to ensure that it is before the votes. I would also like to consider the outcome of this debate and the contribution of these groups to that letter so that it can be fully taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u17	In these sectors in particular, temporary work and temporary projects often occur. For example, if you work for six months, your holiday allowance is based on only six months. I guess you'll get in trouble soon because it's not enough. I imagine employers don't want to run that risk of default.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u18	That is why I indicated that it is not sufficient in all cases to be able to do it by deduction. It is important, however, to point out that deduction, at least of the holiday money, is possible and that not all but in many cases part of the debtor risk can be averted. But, once again, it is a legitimate argument that you can have a discussion, from the point of view of the insured employee, about whether or not to be withheld in that respect. Let me make another comment about this in connection with Mrs Knippers' interruption. There's no AMvB yet before the bill comes to the vote. That is also a point which Mrs Knippers pointed out in her speech. That's true. The legislative proposal allows for an AMvB to be created on this point, which contains certain commitments that could also be made by written authorisation. It should be noted that the substantive assessment of whether or not to make use of this possibility is separate from the legislative proposal under which deductions and adjustments with the WML are in principle no longer possible. So the law puts this as a principle. That's how this is now being recorded. However, he has an exception at AMvB. Before the vote, I would like to make it clear whether and in what way the AMvB will be used. If that is not yet satisfactory, the AMvB itself will certainly not be there yet, then it remains that this is the principle and that, in my opinion, we are now recording it for good reasons. Here's another thing. If we opted for an AMvB, we would still have enough time to make it possible for AMvB to enter into force, due to the later entry into force of this part of the law. After all, that is only on 1 January. Mrs Kneppers also pointed out that representatives of the temporary agency industry indicated that the ban on deductions would reduce their incentive to provide housing, precisely because of the risk of default. The WML is of course there to support employees and guarantee them that minimum income. It should be avoided that they are actually underpaid by unreasonable deductions and offsets. The employee must be given what he is entitled to. Surely that is the purpose of the Law's approach to bogus constructions. I find it curious that bona fide housevards would simply suspend their support in housing if they no longer have the deduction from the statutory minimum wage at their disposal. For example, they can secure rentals via direct debit. They can be helpful in ensuring that the employee pays the rent via collection to the landlord, because that is the most normal situation, even further in society. It is also true, of course, that migrant workers are quite willing to pay rent if that is a reasonable amount and it is about decent housing. They themselves have a very great interest in this. You sometimes see the right thing, I say with emphasis'sometimes'; the good things do not arise too much after speaking 'a dependency relationship' because one is dependent on an employer for both housing and work. You can't open your mouth to the employer, because then you'll lose not only your job but also your home and vice versa. We want to break that dependency. For the time being, therefore, I am not so afraid that employers on a large scale will deduct their hands from supporting workers in renting housing. Mrs Sent asked whether the exception to the obligation to pay in the case of house services could not lead to new constructions. The obligation to pay the minimum wage is intended to ensure that the minimum wage is paid better than is currently the case. However, we must bear in mind that this obligation remains proportionate in view of the relationship between employer and employee, the employment relationship. It is precisely the exception for home personal services that concerns natural persons who provide and take away these services. These are payments between individuals. For many years now it has been used and allowed to be done in cash. Think of the help in the housekeeping and the babysitter who comes in at night. In such situations, in my view, overnight payments are too complicated for those concerned. Such an obligation is also administratively to be implemented and cannot be properly enforced through supervision. However, in her speech, Mrs Sent anticipated possible consequences from the use of home-care services, for example around the pgb. There may be another issue. That's right. That is not for nothing one of the reasons why Secretary of State Van Rijn has announced that he might tighten up the legal provisions that he sees. Such structures should not be used to take away workers' rights or to give them less rights. I think it would go too far to allow the obligation to make overnight payments on all these other industrial relations to take account of the nanny, the worker and what is more they should apply, but we do take into account the risk that the spokesman of the Labour Party has just pointed out. An important issue also in relation to this bill is the approach to bogus self-employment. Many spokesmen have mentioned this subject. The bill's approach to bogus constructions is to encourage workers to receive valid wages. So they are not getting any more expensive, let me just say to those who have given rise to this suggestion. I therefore do not expect people to employ many more bogus self-employed as a result of this law. However, the pressure to engagezzp'ers in an improper way will be considered. In many areas we see that pressure exists. This legislative proposal does not contain any measures to address bogus self-employment as such. Apart from this legislative proposal, there are a number of routes which are also very important. For example, the legislative proposal to simplify and digitize V and J's procedural law will make it easier to invoke the legal presumption of the existence of a contract of employment in court. The replacement of the VAR removes an important disadvantage of the current system of safeguarding clients, which allows the Tax Administration to better maintain false self-employment. In the new system, clients can submit an agreement to the Tax Administration with the question whether it can be qualified as work outside the scope of the employment under case law. Such agreements can also be developed in a model form at sectoral level and assessed on enforcement and on compliance with the agreement. If that is the case, the contraaing authority shall be liable for the payment of wages, otherwise it shall not. In addition, the Tax Administration will carry out a review of market practices in the parcel services sector. That review will be used for the envisaged assessment of contracts in the context of whether or not they entail a deduction from the levy on wages and thus an independent entrepreneurship or an employment relationship. In addition, and perhaps in addition, the cabinet comes with a response to the ibo about zzp. It also looks at the difference in wage costs between employees andzzp'ers, also taking into account the tax facilities for the self-employed. This was also part of the SP's argument, pointing to the huge cost differences that you now see between self-employed and employees on the one hand. That's something we're going through in that ibozzp. That is not so much a question of false self-employment as simply a huge cost difference. This also makes it very difficult to demand in all cases from a work or client that he does not use it. It is very important that, in the short term, the cabinet brings forward proposals which, on the one hand, do justice to the tax fairness of workers and, on the other hand, take into account the real and perceived risks of employers in the employment of workers. Think, for example, of the subject of pay-as-you-go payments in case of illness, which is a huge risk, especially for smaller companies. It is, on the one hand, a balance between the good aspects of self-employment, the freedom and flexibility it brings and the innovation it can bring, and, on the other hand, does something about the currently very different costs and perceptions of employment and self-employment. In addition to a number of measures against bogus self-employment, we must therefore simply look at the economic reality between independence and workerhood. Mr Terpstra asks whether I can still see the possibility of resolving problems relating to transitional rights in seasonal work with the social partners. In the Lower House the question was raised as to whether the transition fee should not have been settled by collective agreement. At the time, I did not think that this was the right way to go, because speed was required. That would have put incredibly pressure on the conclusion of these collective agreements. After all, from 1 July that part of the Work and Security Act will come into force; it will not go unnoticed. That means that I, if you want to do something about that retroactivity, thought it was too big a risk to say: that would be something for collective agreements. Workers' associations would have preferred this, as I should mention, but in this case I have allowed the employers' interest to prevail on timely clarity. However, in the further application of the law, there are, of course, all kinds of three-quarters of binding law, all kinds of opportunities for employers and employees to work together, for example in relation to the definition of chains. If workers and employers have a common interest and express it in my direction, they can therefore work together. I have also indicated that I have always been open to this and that I will look closely at it if I could reach that kind of request. That's what I told LTO's foreman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u19	Mr. Secretary, may I ask you how much longer you think you need?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u20	I'm guessing six and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u21	Great. That's the "fallacy of concreteness."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u22	I also know you'll forgive me if it's 6 minutes and 40 seconds. At least that's what I'm assuming right now. Mrs Sent asks what to do in the event of unwanted interference in privacy in disclosure. We will look specifically at this in the AMvB. It has also been announced that interests need to be weighed against each other; this is a relevant interest that needs to be weighed and thus defined in the AMvB that sees that disclosure. Mrs Strik asks whether the disclosure provided for in the law concerns the punitive sanction provided for in the illegal directive. We are talking here about the publication of administrative penalties which are punitive as such. The disclosure takes place as part of those fine decisions and therefore the decisions to disclose themselves are not punitive decisions. The effects are of course similar. We regulate in this law the opening up of a number of decisions, including on labour market discrimination. We all know that this can have a preventive effect by making it public. However, it has no punitive intention as such. I realize that this can be experienced as such by the person concerned. A final broader part is the European effort against bogus constructions. And indeed, it is the cabinet's aim to create a level playing field at European level, so that we can see that bogus structures, the evasion of the minimum wage provision and the undermining of collective agreements can also be effectively combated internationally. This is also in the interest of our business. The first is the Detachment Directive, which, in my view, does not provide sufficient protection against improper wage competition in cross-border employment. The principle of equal pay for equal work in the same place should be better reflected in that directive, which dates back a long time ago, from a period when wage differentials within the European Union were not as formidable as they are today. Equal working conditions in cross-border work are important to prevent workers from being played against each other. Now posting across borders can be used too easily purely to reduce labour costs, as has also been shown by recent research carried out by the Region Plan. That is why we need to make a strong commitment to equal working conditions in Europe. This does not mean 'equal pay throughout Europe' but 'equal pay for equal work in the same place'. This is a prerequisite for ensuring that the European dream is about more prosperity, more prosperity and more quality of work rather than about a race to the bottom. The latter was never the aim of European cooperation, nor should it be. I'll come to a conclusion. With the Law approach, we provide a building block, and take an important step towards promoting a decent labour market and fair competition between entrepreneurs. In addition to the measures taken by the cabinet in the legislative sense but also outside the Chamber, which I have outlined to the Chamber, this fits in with a broad approach to bogus constructions in the Netherlands and in the European context. In the Lower House, all parties represented there were able to support the bill. I very much hope that this may also be the case in this Chamber. The law will certainly not solve all the problems but is very important for improving the balance sheet, for combating these kinds of constructions and for increasing the sense of justice of many Dutch entrepreneurs and employees.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u23	In doing so, we have reached the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Terpstra, who said he needed an hour and a half for his second term. But I think it turns out to be a little shorter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u24	Mr. Chairman. I'm hoping to be a little shorter. First of all, I would like to offer my sincere apologies to the Minister. I would like to begin by thanking Mr Backer for his brilliant words at the end of his first term. I thank the Minister for his answers. We were convinced of the idea of voting in favour of this law, and this conviction has increased in scope as a result of the Minister's reply. In the discussion on deductions from the minimum wage, we were only concerned with the retention of care and housing. What is stated in the General Measure of Management, we await, in full confidence that both the Lower House and the new First Chamber will handle this well. If the coalition parties insist on the idea of introducing the law or parts of the law by 1 January, my opposition role will not go so far as to oppose it. I would also like to thank all the spokesmen for their cooperation. I would like to thank the chairman for the pleasant leadership, the stenography service for the fact that everything was actually more expressed than I have ever said, and the clerk for everything, and that 'everything' refers to the whole apparatus. I wish the Minister all the good in general, but also in particular in the pursuit of a fair labour market at national and European level.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u25	Thank you very much, Mr Terpstra. We'll miss you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u26	Mr. Chairman. I would like to join in that. I would like to thank Mr Terpstra and Mrs Kneppers for their excellent cooperation over the last four years. I would like to thank the Minister for the detailed answer to the first-term questions. The problem of bogus structures and underpayment requires a comprehensive approach in the areas of enforcement, international cooperation and legislation. The legislative proposal we are debating today makes an important contribution to the latter. During my first term, I drew attention to all areas and I would like to go through the five main points together with the Minister's response. The first point concerned the date of introduction. In doing so, we have indicated that a short period of time does not contribute to legal certainty and enforcement. We understand the aim of introducing preventive action as soon as possible, but we also support the Minister, who states that he understands the aspects of implementation. We are particularly looking forward to his second-term wording on the elements of the law that call for the adjustment of the salary administrations to be introduced as of 1 January 2016. We shall wait and see. The second main point was netting and deductions. We were concerned about uninsured people, uninsured people and unjustly insured people in the field of care, concerns about compliance with legislation in the area of work and living. On this point, we look forward to the letter from the Minister, who will reach our Chamber, as he has indicated, even before we vote on the legislative proposal before we vote on it. The third main point concerned escape structures in the field of home services and in the field of transport and forwarding agreements. We wondered whether the Minister shares our assessment and, if so, what consequences he would have. In doing so, we welcome the fact that the law is being reviewed, provided it is adopted by the Chamber, and that this evaluation is already taking place in three years' time. We hope that suggestions for sealing holes and for possible extension of the law will be part of that evaluation. More generally, we welcome the attention of the cabinet to the general risks associated with home services. Our fourth point concerned the right to respect for privacy and the importance of a proper balance between desirable openness and unwanted interference. On this point, the Minister has indicated that this will be given due attention in the AMvB. That is what we are looking forward to. The final key point in our speech was the international approach, concern for undesirable competition on working conditions and a request for the adaptation of the Detachment Directive. We support the cabinet's efforts to create a level playing field at European level in this area and are particularly looking forward to initiatives in this area. Although the present legislative proposal is an important step in addressing the problem of bogus constructions and underpayment, my group is also looking forward to additional initiatives in this area. We are thinking, in particular, of regulating the minimum legal minimum wage and the minimum holiday allowance, including for persons who work against remuneration on the basis of a contract of employment. We are thinking here of tackling the tax incentives that encourage bogus self-employment. For now, we are particularly looking forward to the Minister's response to the remaining second-term issues.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u27	Thank you, Mrs. Sent. I understand we'll see you again if we're lucky.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u28	It's expected, but it's equally exciting.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u29	Mr. Chairman. I cannot agree with Mr Terpstra's words of thanks, and I am happy to endorse them. I would like to thank the Minister not only for answering our questions, but also for the fact that he and I have always kept the contact open, despite the fact that we did not always have the same opinion. I have two more points I would like to make. With regard to the date of entry into force, I would like to wait and see what the Minister says in the second term about the elements of the law that require technical adjustments. I'd like to know exactly what he means by that. The retention ban will start on 1 January 2016 and we will get the technical adjustments. Then what is the part that might not enter into force as of 1 January 2016, but which the Minister wants to bring into force as of 1 July? I did not fully understand the distinction betweenzzp'ers and employees. The minister said that the employee can go to court if there is any doubt about the nature of the employment relationship. I understand. But I'm trying to see it from the client higher up in the chain. This one has a duty to see if things are going the way they should go down in the chain. How can that client know whether he is dealing with an independent person or with an employee? I'm gonna keep having a hard time with that. The Minister said that the Tax Administration can check for bogus self-employment and that the model agreement may provide a safeguard for the wage charge. I understand that too, but that does not mean anything about the rest of the autonomy. I quote from the letter of State Secretary Wiebes on page 8: "A contract cannot be read as to whether the contractor is an entrepreneur. The alternative to the BGL concerns the certainty of the client's lack of obligation to pay or to pay payroll taxes, no ruling on the contractor's tax status in the income tax, no ruling on any entrepreneurship of the contractor, therefore no impact on the tax business facilities." But if there is no conclusive answer to this question, I do not think that there is any question of the nature of the employment relationship, i.e. the civil employment relationship. How does the client at the top of the chain know whether he is dealing with a "real" employee or with a bogus self-employed person or a real self-employed person? I hope I've made it clear where my problem is. So I do understand from the employee's point of view, so that he can go to court and that the judge is ultimately the one who determines, on the basis of facts and circumstances, whether or not there is an employment relationship, but the client must know, before entering into a contract, whether or not it is at the bottom of the chain, yes or no. I'd like to get a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u30	Thank you, Mrs. Knippers. We shall miss you too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u31	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to thank Mr Terpstra and Mrs Kneppers for their cooperation. I would like to thank Mr Terpstra for the cheerful note he has often put forward. I would like to thank Mrs Knippers for her expert and thorough input. We will also have to focus on this in the future. I hope to see Mrs Sent back as a colleague. I thank the Minister for his reply. We were already in favour of this bill. That's all we've become. We also very much agree with the Minister that it is a first important step but that it is only part of a larger approach that requires several other steps to eliminate underpayment and exploitation as far as possible. I've got a few more points. I had asked for attention to be paid to the role of the government itself in the role of the client in large calls for tenders. The minister says quite laconically that the government must, of course, comply with the law, just like everyone else. However, I would like a slightly more comprehensive answer to this, because if the government is guilty of this type of practice, even if it is indirect, it will no longer be credible in the enforcement of these kinds of arrangements with other employers or clients. I do think there is a greater responsibility here. I would also like the Minister to make a strong appeal to his colleagues and to ensure that preventive measures are taken. This kind of thing shouldn't happen in the government. The same applies to municipalities. As far as the municipalities are concerned, I have also asked about the direction the minister sees for himself in the direction of the local authorities in dealing with issues such as housing and other issues relating to migrant workers, because they are often also dependent on the enforcement role of the local government. It's been evaluated after three years. We are pleased with that. Enforcement will probably be part of that. We can then see whether enforcement is sufficiently effective or whether it is necessary to extend it. I am glad that the Minister has already said: as long as it is necessary to use the extra FTEs, we are doing so. Perhaps in three years' time it will be a good time to see whether this will be enough or whether additional steps may need to be taken. At the same time, we are pleased that further steps are being taken on the issue of bogus self-employment, whether through fiscal means or not. We are also looking forward to the proposals that the Minister in Brussels is going to make for the further handling of bogus constructions through the directives there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u32	Mr. Chairman. It's not a big deal to have a firm opposition. The SP will certainly continue to do so with all the legislative proposals that we believe are calling for. But it is also nice to compliment the government from the opposition on a good law. Possibly this SP support tastes like more. I hope so. Then perhaps in the future we can work together to reduce the size of the flexible shell and strengthen simply good work with good working conditions and greater security. I have also heard very well that the Minister wants to highlight the introduction of chain liability for wages as part of the three-year review of a possible extension of liability for more than pay alone. Of course, my group would also appreciate that. The SP is also looking forward to the discussion on the great difference in costs and rights between employees andzzp'ers. Finally, I would also like to assist the Minister in providing the legal minimum wage for anyone working with an ovo. We await his letter with the request that the procedure be resumed in that context. Senators Terpstra of the CDA and Mrs Knippers of the VVD have just spoken their second term in their last debate in this Chamber, at least for the time being their last debate. Mr Terpstra was the first speaker to congratulate me on my maiden speech in this house a little over eight years ago. I thank him again for that. I would like to thank him and Mrs Knippers for the many debates they have had with me since then. I would also like to thank them for all the good work they have done in the committees on which I was also allowed to be a member. We're gonna miss them. I hope to continue to see the other speakers in this debate in the new First Chamber. We're gonna see.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u33	Mr. Chairman. The tone of the debate also reflects why there are so many cameras here in the hallway, because everything happens outside this Chamber that concerns us. I'm referring to the vote for the new First Chamber. If I listen carefully to the Minister, he says: grossly speaking, 80% is bona fide and 20% is malicious, and we have 35 extra FTEs for that. If it is true that the law is going to do what the Minister is trying to do, there is already information about it, and then perhaps the effect would be measurable by now. More could be achieved with fewer FTEs, because more employers are getting bona fide. That would be a nice effect. The opposite could also be the case, namely that these percentages are not so sensitive to legal intervention and that they will have to be added. I trust that, if that is indeed the outcome after one and a half or two years, the Minister will take action. I await an answer on the precise implementation dates of the various parts, but it seems to me that the Minister is moving in the direction that at least my group and a number of other groups have argued, taking into account the problems of introduction. The Minister has called the ibo an ibo but I know by now that this is an interdepartmental policy consultation. When I listen to him like that, it is about looking for the quadrature of the circle, but that is no reason not to, because this is one of the biggest labour market issues of the next ten years. The question is how we can find ways to solve the difference in costs betweenzzp'er and employee, the difference in risk of loss of wages in the different situations, the difference in pension insurance and provisions and thereby give a new shape to flex and fixed. This, in my opinion, makes the labour market more sustainable than it is today. I thought for a moment about Mrs Knippers' question as to how you know as a client whether there is a real relationship between employer and employee or a false construction. I am trying to formulate the answer for myself, including for the debates of this debate. It will only be dealt with by the client in the form of a real wage claim if the court has established that wages are due. Then that relationship must have been established. It may also be relevant to the client at the time he is addressed to the question of culpability. Has he done enough research? In my opinion, his obligation to investigate does not go so far as to have to examine everything that has been said here about false security and workers. That seems to me too far away from his commitment. The client must do everything in the context of audits, assignment, contractual requirements and inspections, but I do not think it is the client's duty to give a positive final assessment. Well, it's a long way to go, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u34	That might be possible, but I would like to know from the Minister whether that is not the preventive effect he is talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u35	Of course. I have given my own interpretation, but the Minister is the only authority on this point. I'll finish with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u36	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Chamber for its positive attitude to this proposal. It is good that the various elements of the debate have led to a real dialogue. I will deal with the commitment I have just announced. As far as I am concerned, the evaluation can also include additions and other suggestions. If it has proved possible to improve the current legislative proposal by extending the number of agreements it sees or by adding other elements to liability, this is an appropriate time to conduct the discussion with each other. I am certainly not laconical about the role of the government, I say in the direction of GroenLinks. On the contrary, that was not the point of my first speech. There is indeed a coordinating role for the municipalities on the issue of labour migration, housing and so on. To this end, there is a permanent administrative consultation with municipalities where many migrant workers live or settle. That is where the issue can be raised and any signals about abuses can be discussed. That's what's happening now. That goes vice versa. Signals at my disposal can be shared with the municipalities and municipalities that have concerns about developments, for example about housing, can report this to us. The new law is wholeheartedly supported by the municipalities, because they also want migrant workers in their municipalities to be treated fairly and not to create unfair competition. The new law can only strengthen that. When the law is evaluated, we can see how we are at risk of enforcement and its capacity. The goal is that you achieve more with the same amount of people. For that, the law has a number of ingredients. I must honestly say that increasingly complex constructions require a lot of work and hours from our inspectors before they have a case. They have recently been dealing with complex constructions from different countries with all kinds of legal design and bells and bells. Bringing down a Christmas tree like that is gonna cost our inspectors a lot of work. We need these people very much. I say that also for someone who listens and thinks it might be possible to do it with fewer inspectors. I owe the SP the answer to the question about the minimum wage bill for contract work. The cabinet hasn't given up yet. We continue to attach great importance to this bill. However, after careful consideration, I did not choose to include that in this treatment, because I would like to try to ensure that this treatment ends successfully. The most appropriate time to bring that bill back here is, as I insinuated in the October letter, when reviewing the WML. We need to look at a large number of aspects of the WML. Mrs Knippers mentioned a number of them at the time, as did Mr Backer. He just referred to that. We hope to come forward with proposals in the autumn to revise the WML. Then it is appropriate to consider how we can bring the contract of assignment below the statutory minimum wage. I'll be in touch at that point. I wouldn't say 20% of the companies are crooked. Of course, we do not know that. In recent years we have seen a worrying number of signals about abuses and false constructions. Some of them are anecdotal, partly due to the statistics of the inspection. We know that there are huge numbers of bona fide entrepreneurs in the Netherlands, who treat their employees neatly and who therefore have an interest in a fair playing field. I would like to draw your attention to the many letters from, for example, the Dutch Building and Infra Contracting Federation, which explicitly lobbied for this law, so that the often smaller construction companies do not compete away with these kinds of constructions. I come to the request of D66, the VVD and the PvdA concerning the entry into force of the provisions requiring more technical adaptation. I said that in the eyes of the cabinet for chain liability, but also for the disclosure of inspection data, no long preparation period is necessary. However, I can imagine, in the light of the debate, that for other parts of the WML, in particular, extra time is needed to adapt the administration. I am prepared to allow the obligations on overnight payments, deductions and netting and the requirements on the pay slip, in particular the specification on expenses compensation, to enter into force only as of 1 January 2016, so that we keep the speed in terms of the important standard of responsibility for what is happening in the chain. Then all companies, including the bona fide, have just a little more time to adapt their administration to those specific elements. How does a client know if he is dealing with a self-employed person? This is seen by a multitude of factors. Mr Backer's explanation is correct. That's one element. Another element is that an independent cannot hold the client liable at all under this law. A client may require that employees be employed. If he is concerned about this and does not want it to go through the self-employed, he can demand it and make it part of a chain bond. The standard agreement will also clarify the relationship between employer and employee or client and self-employed person. In any case, characteristic of the more open standard of good clientship and good employership is not the obligation to determine any relationship whether it is an employee relationship or a client relationship. There is no such administrative and legal obligation. However, there are three areas where action must be taken. First of all, the contracts, in standard work, should make it clear that you expect further links in the chain to meet their wage obligations neatly. Secondly, you have to look at this every now and then on a random basis. For a very large company, this obligation is more severe than for a small SME. If you have a contract like this, make sure it's something. Thirdly, if there are signs of abuses or underpayment, you must respond to them. If you do the first and second good, you don't run into the problem of whether it's an employee or a self-employed person so quickly, unless things go wrong, such as wrongdoing or actual underpayment. Then it is important that you, as a client, make sure that they have complied with the agreements and the law. So it doesn't have to be in all cases and not by default. However, you have to react well to such a signal. You can never write out completely in advance when it is for a particular sector in a particular case, but the obligation implies that you can show that you are not reproachable when a judge says you didn't do anything when that call came. Finally, I come to the role of Rijkswaterstaat and the ruling in the recent television broadcast. Rijkswaterstaat has helped design the law and indicates that the law offers more tools to ensure that there are no things in that chain that you wouldn't want. We will not only evaluate the law but also monitor it. This monitoring also focuses specifically on state contractors. The law applies to everyone and everything, because one employee works on an assignment that a government is behind and another time for a large company. That shouldn't matter. We are going to see what is happening in practice and specifically with the government's contractors. Mr President, I shall conclude. I realize it's a special day for the First Chamber. It is not appropriate to reflect on this on the part of the government, but it might be appropriate to thank the members of the First Chamber with whom I have been allowed to work now that this cooperation is at least coming to an end in this form from the government very much for the way in which we work and the willingness to listen to arguments, sometimes from an ideological entirely different perspective. I would like to thank you very much for the constructive way in which the constructive and non-constructive opposition parties have approached me here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u37	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? I note that this is the case. Then I suggest we vote on the bill next Tuesday.
