ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u1	I welcome the initiators, Mrs Kooiman, Mrs Volp and Mr Segers. I would also like to welcome the staff, Mr Vedder and Mrs Wiskerke. I would also like to welcome the Minister for Security and Justice in his role as advisor to the Chamber. I would also like to welcome Members of Parliament, the public, the public and all those who follow this meeting through other channels. All the speakers have indicated that they need about ten minutes of speaking time. There can be unlimited interference, but interrupting is not mandatory, I say. For the record, I would like to agree with you that interruptions take place in two, so with a question and a follow-up question. This will prevent us from prolonging the inter-ruption debate endlessly. With your permission, we will keep this order in the sitting.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u2	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to express my deep appreciation for the initiators. The right of initiative is an important instrument in the hands of a powerful parliament. Ultimately, writing and defending a bill is incredibly much work for MPs and their support. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats congratulated the Group of the Greens/European Free It is to the credit of the initiators that they want to make a concrete contribution to improving the fate of victims of trafficking who are exploited in prostitution. However, it is a dilemma for GroenLinks whether we will ultimately best serve these bad sacrifices by criminalising the customers. From various sides, especially by representatives of the professional group itself, there is a fear that the proposed criminalisation will eventually reduce the signals of abuse. For example, Soa Aids Netherlands and Rutgers are calling for this bill not to be accepted, because they fear that it will have counterproductive consequences. A total ban has been introduced in Sweden, but Rutgers believes that this does not contribute to the fight against exploitation. I therefore ask the proposers to explain in particular how this initiative legislative proposal will contribute in practice to a higher level of protection. I assume that Chamberwide is shared that everyone's intention is to reduce exploitation and that there is a higher level of protection for people in this profession. GroenLinks believes that the desired higher level of protection may not be provided by the criminal legislator, but can only be achieved by stepping up enforcement. In addition, GroenLinks has been saying that for a long time now, the emancipation of the sex worker who consciously chooses to do so will have to be taken seriously. Strangely enough, the two principles that should be at the heart of prostitution policy in the Netherlands since the lifting of the brothel ban. This law would lead to a strict separation between the legal, thus safe and well controlled prostitution industry and the illegal, potentially unsafe, forbidden and exploitative prostitution industry. GroenLinks was strongly in favour of lifting the brothel ban at the time. It is time for new rules, which fit in with the understanding that legal prostitution is ultimately work and should therefore, as far as possible and in view of the particular risks, be standardised as much as possible. That was our ideal. Our ideal is still a legal prostitution industry in which the sex worker directs the way she or he does the work. It didn't come from that. The question is, however, whether this is the fault of the lifting of the judgment ban. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, Dutch prostitution policy has not sufficiently focused on the emancipation of the sex worker.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u3	I just want to get back a few rules when it comes to whether this is the most effective way of ultimately protecting the prostitute and keeping her out of the hands of such a human dealer. I think we have a broad consensus on that. In the written answer to questions on the legislative proposal, we have also seen that various bodies, such as the National Rapporteur on Human Trafficking and Sexual Violence and the Public Prosecutor, have actually deposited it with the legislator: please help us, make it clearer in the law, so that we have more tools to reach a standard and ultimately to punish the prostitute. This is a very important signal, which can prevent the abuse of prostitutes. What does Mrs Van Tongeren think of these considerations?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u4	Of course, it's about balance. Do you think it's gonna be mostly symbolic legislation? Suppose the bill gets through the First and Second Chambers and the law is in force, can the Public Prosecutor actually condemn people with it? Does that affect the rest of the customer group and then the traffickers? If a prostitute who is exploited and is a victim of trafficking is going to testify that is further down the line in my text, because it is also a concern of GroenLinks............................................................................................................................................... If that is the case, you replace one unsafe situation with another. Those are some of the concerns. The reason why we do not yet have a clear position, which will be apparent at the end of my story, is precisely that on the one hand it is said 'don't do it, because it all has adverse consequences' and on the other it is said 'it can help'. I think prostitution is incredibly complicated anyway. I myself do not know any country in the world that I think is: if we now take over that system, we will have covered 90% or 95% of the problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u5	In the end, we want more reports to be made, those traffickers arrested and the prostitutes who are forced there to be protected. We all do. The people who stand with their legs in the clay, who stand on the field of work, the initiators, as far as I understand, make the request: help us now, so that we get more reports. They ask for very clear examples in the law of what one should pay attention to, so as to clarify the situations in which there is abuse, forced prostitution and the grip of human traffickers. If these signals are now clearer in the law, could Mrs Van Tongeren say that this could not lead to more reports?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u6	In any case, my group has received as many signals from people directly from the profession who say that it is going to work counter-productively, that it is going to mean that even more people are going into illegality and that there is even more threat of and fear of exploitation. We have not received clear signals from the profession, but have clearly heard both sides. The only one who's very clear, as far as I know, is the D.A.'s office. We see how hard it is to get convictions for trafficking in human beings. In cases where it is very clear, involving girls under the age of 16, it is difficult to get a firm conviction, which is a little more than community service. So I've got a whole bucket of mixed signals.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u7	I understand from Mrs Van Tongeren that quite a few signals have come from the prostitution industry. I wonder whether Mrs Van Tongeren or the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance has also received signals from victims of trafficking in human beings.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u8	I myself set up a center for victims of sexual violence, I worked in a stay-of-my-living home and I worked in the refugee shelter. Unfortunately, I have also encountered quite a lot of victims of trafficking in human beings in all these places. So from that group you have them, too, but it's not unambiguous. Not everyone in the prostitution sector says: we want this rule, because it makes it better. Legal prostitutes say: we also want the excesses to be eliminated. I tried to include that in my speech. There are two basic principles: emancipating the legal sex worker and combating the excesses. We share these two principles, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u9	I get a long answer to my question, but it's not really an answer. I asked very simply whether the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance also received signals from victims of trafficking in human beings. I believe that Mrs Van Tongeren is very experienced, also because of her work before she became a Member of Parliament. But I think this is the heart of the problem. I do believe that we want to give the ordinary prostitutes the chance to practice their normal legal profession in the Netherlands, but we are not talking about prostitutes here tonight. We're talking about the victims of human trafficking tonight, and they're not prostitutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u10	I hear Mrs Gesthuizen, in particular, now give a statement on the definition she uses for the group we are talking about. As I understand it, this is really about people being forced to work in prostitution. I now understand from the signals from Mrs Gesthuizen that the SP thinks that you should use the term "victims of trafficking in human beings."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u11	Mrs Van Tongeren says: it's just a matter of waiting to see if this is really going to help. I understand that, but what I don't quite understand is that she's almost suggesting that it might also turn out wrong. Can she explain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u12	We want to adopt legislation in the Chamber that has an effect. With this legislation, we want to say that it is over and we are really going to do this. If we do that, but if six months after we passed the law the first case of the Public Prosecutor doesn't make it, and another case doesn't make it after another six months, then we've achieved a counterproductive effect. That is what my group wants to clarify from the authors. On what basis do they base their belief that this is really going to help contain excesses, while the legal sex worker can just keep doing the job?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u13	I now understand Mrs Van Tongeren's reasoning. Is that not a good description of the current practice? At the moment, this is precisely so difficult to address because the description of the crime is not sufficiently specific. Isn't that exactly the problem that this bill can solve?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u14	I fully agree with the first thing Mr Van der Staaij says. The second thing I have to do is get convinced.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u15	That's clear. Mrs Van Tongeren continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u16	Yes. I hope I remember how far I'd come. I think I was ideal with us for the legal prostitution business. At the same time, the policies pursued by local authorities have not contributed to the development of the sector. Many municipalities wanted no or as little legal brothels as possible within the municipal boundaries. Prostitution is for GroenLinks accepted work, but not regular work. Sex workers are sometimes exposed to aggression and exploitation. Some prostitutes have entered work under false promises or by threat. Especially without a residence permit, exploitation is lurking. Such abuses must be combated, but they are difficult to combat. Victims themselves do not easily go to the police and signals are not easily picked up. Perhaps, apart from this initiative and from the government-adjusted law on abuses in the prostitution sector, we should now make real progress on the emancipation of sex workers and a strong response to the abuses. We call on the government to support prostitutes' initiatives that stand up for their interests, to facilitate exit programmes, and to intensify the detection and prosecution of trafficking in human beings. I would like to hear from the governor who is here today as an advisor, at an appropriate time, a perspective. How does he intend to shape this in practice? We would also like to receive a response at some point from the advisor of the proposers to the proposal of Soa Aids Nederland and Rutgers to intensify the cooperation of investigation services. Earlier campaigns by Meld Crime Anonymous reportedly led to an increase in the number of reports by 121%. The police were able to continue investigating on many of those reports. It lowers the threshold for customers to report alleged abuses without getting into trouble themselves. In addition, we would like to hear whether the alleged causal link exists between the decreasing number of authorised workplaces and the increasing abuses. Should not the number of authorised workplaces increase rather than decrease? In an authorised workplace, the sex worker has easy access to supervision, control and enforcement. Then I have a legal point of attention. The initiators want to criminalise the prostitute, the customer, if he or she knows or reasonably has to suspect that he or she has committed such abuse. With the Council of State, GroenLinks wonders whether the initiative proposal should not be enough to criminalise the deliberate variant. We would like to hear from the proposers why they have chosen this variant. "Who knows about the operating situation in which the prostitute is?' However, it remains difficult to determine when the prostitute should reasonably suspect the victim of the prostitute, according to the Council of State. This jeopardises the foreseeability of any criminal liability. We also wonder whether the proposers have considered incorporating the form of serious presumption of coercion into the legislative proposal and, if so, what the advantages and disadvantages would be and what considerations would be involved. We also ask the authors to reconsider the comments of the Council of State. Punishment under circumstances where there is no evidence of wrongdoing too far. Perhaps the initiators should include the Chamber in a thought-experiment on how prostitutes should act before entering a tendon chamber. What steps do they have to go through? What are they looking at? When can you just step in there? What is the result of the customer's obligation of investigation assumed by the initiators before there is impunity for paid sex? We would also like to know, as I said in the small-scale debate, how we are looking at the next situation. Suppose a human trafficking victim testifies in such a case, does he or she immediately cross the border back to the country of origin? That doesn't help much to get testimonies. What should happen around that to ensure that you get testimonies from victims of trafficking in human beings? Trafficking in human beings is one of the biggest abuses we still know today. This calls for a bold and effective approach. For GroenLinks, it means an intensive fight against exploitation situations and empowerment of the legal sector. One can't do without the other. At the moment, however, there is confidence in criminal law and GroenLinks does not know whether that trust is entirely appropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u17	Mr. Chairman. On behalf of my group, too, I would like to congratulate the authors and the staff for the work that this proposal has brought with it. The CDA Group expressed its explicit support for this bill in the written round, noting that the idea originally came from Christian Democrat case. That's okay, we're sitting here, and that's okay. It's a good thing other people picked it up so nicely. There's a good bill. In today's Dutch Dagblad I read all kinds of objections from the VVD group about the evidence, which would be problematic. Let us just look soberly at this bill, at its starting points. A customer who knows or reasonably suspects that a prostitute over 18 years of age is a victim of trafficking in human beings and who nevertheless uses her sexual services contributes to the maintenance of a network of exploitation and trafficking in human beings. Right now, he's not a criminal. The bill quite rightly puts an end to this. According to the CDA Group, this is a good thing, given the horrors of trafficking in human beings, right and above all within the prostitution industry. More than at present, awareness and responsibility within the sector may be called for, as well as punishment for customers who abuse young girls in particular. This bill tackles people who knew or should have known that they were wrong but still used those girls, criminally. It is actually unacceptable for customers to look away from the situation in which the prostitute is located. A moral rejection of this through criminal law is very appealing to my group. I would like to ask a few brief questions, which are addressed in particular to the Minister. In the note on the report, the authors expressed less firmly than the CDA Group on the question of whether, for example, a low price for prostitution services could be an indication of trafficking in human beings. We would therefore also like to hear from the Minister how he would like this point to be considered in the prosecution's investigative practice. I don't think it's explicitly reflected in the U.S. Attorney's notice on trafficking in human beings. Is that right? Suppose this law is passed, how do we proceed with it in the search country? The CDA Group is also curious to see how other signals of trafficking in human beings will be weighed in practice. The initiators did not express themselves explicitly about the situation that communication between the customer and the prostitute is not possible. What about when a prostitute doesn't speak Dutch or English, but only Polish? Is that, for example, an indication of trafficking in human beings? I put this question to both the initiators and the minister. How will the Public Prosecutor handle such information when considering criminality and a possible evidence? The proposers state that their proposal is separate from the government's bill on the regulation of prostitution. I would ask the proposers and the Minister to reflect on this once again. Can they go into that again? On page 4 of the note following the report, the proposers write that when using prostitute services in the authorised part of the sector, the customer may assume that the likelihood of trafficking in human beings is less than, for example, if the unauthorized circuit is involved. The government's legislative proposal partly aims to create a clearer distinction between the licensed and the unauthorized part of the prostitution. Is the success of this initiative not therefore partly dependent on the adoption of the government's legislative proposal? I'd like to get a reaction to that. I also see from contributions from other Members of Parliament that they would find it much better if both legislative proposals were to pass the Chambers together. Can the Minister and the proposers promote this? Like the National Rapporteur on Trafficking in Human Beings and Sexual Violence against Children and the Judicial Council, the CDA Group believes that a legislative proposal aimed at combating abuses in the field of trafficking in human beings should be consistent with the trafficking of human beings. You can look at this in two ways. You can say it's more in the sphere of seduction and youth prostitution. In that case, I think the petitioners are right about their criminalisation. However, we believe that it is more in the sphere of trafficking in human beings. This is also in line with what the National Rapporteur and the Council of Ministers say in the case-law, namely that the penalties could be higher. It is quite extraordinary for the Council to say so. However, I have tried to find a link with what the proposers have invented. They say, in fact, that it is worse for minors, so you should distinguish between them. I agree with you, but I think it can be a bit more stringent, especially in view of the advice we have received from the experts. The penalties imposed on trafficking in human beings are actually much higher. On the bald crime of trafficking in human beings there is a penalty threat of up to 12 years or a fine of the fifth category. In the case of aggravated circumstances referred to in paragraph 3, the maximum term of imprisonment shall be 15 years. In the event of serious personal injury or danger of death, the maximum sentence is even 18 years. In the event of human trafficking leading to death, the maximum sentence is life or 30 years. We believe that the approach shown in the penalties imposed on trafficking in human beings is not sufficiently reflected in the level of criminal penalties used in this bill. We also believe that the abuses in this sector persist because customers look away from abuse. If you want to tackle the trafficking in human beings seriously, let it go back to the punishment. We've talked about the deterrent effect before. Mrs Gesthuizen and Mr Van Oosten, among others, took part in that discussion. It is not necessarily the case that this is being imposed, but it is a clear sign that we are serious. That is why I proposed in the amendment to raise the sentence to six years in the case of adult victims and eight years in the case of minor victims. I would like to receive a response from the proposers and the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u18	The National Rapporteur on Trafficking in Human Beings also concludes in her latest report that the penalties for traffickers are going down in practice, despite the fact that the Chamber decided not so long ago to increase those penalties legally. What will be the practical use of Mr Oskam's amendment if it is adopted?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u19	I think I just said that. I believe that there is a signal: this is the punishment that stands at the maximum. We know in the Netherlands that if you commit a shoplifting, which stands for four years, you get a fine or a week's imprisonment. It's clear what angle you're putting this in. We believe that this is the corner of human trafficking, which justifies a heavier punishment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u20	So Mr Oskam is satisfied with the signal that it is sending, and he can almost be sure that it is not going to be that way in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u21	If that were the case, we could abolish the Code of Criminal Law. We have the separation of powers. It's up to the judge to decide what the punishment will be. We determine the penalty level in the law. In the end, the judge must weigh the facts and circumstances and apply the punishment. That's how it works in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u22	Mr. Chairman. I too shall begin by congratulating the authors: colleagues Segers, Volp and Kooiman. I express my respect for all the work that has been done. Also compliments to the employees who have worked hard on it. From my own experience, I know this is quite a job. Prostitution is not normal and will never be normal, but there has been a period in the Netherlands in which we thought that it was the liberal parties in particular that could normalise the sex sector with the lifting of the brothel ban. However, abuses have remained. The legislator is now also aware of this. In the meantime, there have been many tightening-up of the article in the Code of Criminal Law against exploitation and trafficking in human beings, and there are three legislative proposals for further tackling the abuses. The law on prostitution regulation and the fight against sexual abuse is still in the First Chamber. A novelle on it with among other things the increase of the minimum age for prostitutes to 21 years will be discussed shortly. Now there is the bill for criminalising abuse of prostitutes who are victims of trafficking in human beings, the proposal of colleagues Segers, Volp and Kooiman. Prostitution is therefore not normal, not in the sense that it would not occur in all countries at all times, but in the sense that it is fundamentally different to sell your body for money than, for example, selling a car, a house or a bike. Nor is it normal to sell your child, your organ or your freedom. It's okay. It's okay. People go in, buy them, even if there's a direct ban. But it's not normal. It is therefore the fight against the seeming normality of the so-called oldest profession in the world. That fight is incredibly important. It is clear to the Christian Union that we must at least try to tackle the abuses of prostitution successfully. That's what we're looking for. For how normal is it when everything points out that the vast majority of prostitutes work against their will in the sex sector?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u23	I would like to hear from my colleague what gives him the right to find something not normal with regard to the choice of another, the explicit voluntary choice. What gives him the right to find something?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u24	Apart from the whole moral debate, we have to note that following the lifting of the brothel ban, several investigations have been carried out, including by the National Rapporteur for Trafficking in Human Beings, the Public Prosecutor and the social organisations working in it, which show that the majority of the prostitution industry is forced to do so in some way. Then I don't think you can hold on to the fact that prostitution is a normal profession.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u25	I don't think we're gonna figure it out. I don't know if what you're saying is true, any more than you know exactly. But still, what gives you the right to believe that this is not normal for that small minority, who may choose to be economically self-reliant by selling her or his body to another?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u26	We are talking about a bill aimed at addressing victims of trafficking in human beings. That is the crux of the matter. If we find that there is so much compulsion in the sex sector, I hope that we will do everything we can to increase the number of reports, to protect the prostitutes and to deal with the traffickers. Hence my contention that prostitution was not normal, is and will be.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u27	The National Rapporteur on Trafficking in Human Beings always mentions trafficking in other sectors, but I do not hear Mr Voordewind on this. That is also very serious, what is happening there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u28	I shall come back later in my speech to other forms of abuse by human traffickers. I fully agree with Mrs Berndsen that the legislator must also be strict in these matters.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u29	Then I hope that Mr Voordewind will use the same words: that it is not normal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u30	Sure, if there's coercion or human trafficking, I'll use the same terms. Mr. Chairman. How normal is it, if this sector is traditionally heavily interwoven with the criminal circuit? Exploitation, trafficking in human beings, enrichment at the expense of others, coercion and violence are inexhaustiblely interwoven with the sector. Fortunately, the eyes are increasingly open to this, partly thanks to the systematic reporting of the National Rapporteur on Trafficking in Human Beings, the use of police and justice, but also of the media, who fortunately no longer talk about the happy hooker. The other side of prostitution is becoming more and more visible, as shown by a reportage like Jojanneke in prostitution. We can also question the civil law side of the matter. I refer to the article in the Dutch Lawyers' Magazine by colleague Segers. In that statement, he argues that the so-called prostitution agreement, whether between the customer and the prostitute, or in the triangle between the brothel holder, the prostitute and the customer, cannot be regarded at all as a normal legal act. It is not an agreement within the meaning of all other agreements that we find in the Civil Code. Perhaps he could give further consideration to this in this debate. The aim of the proposers is to criminalise the prostitute of the exploited prostitute. After all, the prostitute is the third party when it comes to trafficking in human beings. You could say that even the prostitute exploits another, if he takes away his or her sexual services, knowing that those under duress, urge or threat offer these services by force. To some extent this is due to Article 2.173f. Insofar as this is not the case under circumstances, this legislative proposal will once again ensure that this is the case. That is the thrust of this initiative proposal. In that case, you are not only punishable as a souteneur or pimp, but also as a customer, as a prostitute, as is the case when you are engaged as a souteneur or as a customer in sexual services of minor prostitutes. This extension, or perhaps clarification, of what we already find in Article 2.173f of the Criminal Code, is obvious, because trafficking in human beings is not allowed. However, the applicants go a step further by criminalising the customer who can reasonably suspect, or knows, that the other person is in a situation of exploitation so that it can be suspected that the victim is a human trafficking victim. I would say that is enlargement, but also the challenge. How can anyone know if there is coercion, violence, etc., so whether someone is the victim of human trafficking and is in forced prostitution? That is the central point of the debate. It seems to me that in the written preparation the proposers have explained in detail the circumstances in which the prostitute should have heard the alarm bells go off. This is the debate in order to have a clear exchange of views. I should also like to hope that this legislative proposal will send out a signal. Suspicious circumstances, backrooms, bruises; you can see them. Fear can almost be tasted. But if it is, and the figures seem to indicate, that a large proportion of the prostitutes are actually active in the sex sector against their will, you should also say that in the majority of cases there is trafficking in human beings, and therefore the prostitute should, by definition, be alert to the offence. Perhaps I should reverse the question: under what circumstances can the prostitute assume that he is not breaking the law under any circumstances? I ask the proposers whether we can assume that the law on prostitution and the fight against sexual abuse will provide more clarity after the entry into force. How can this be the case, since it seems that both the prostitute's obligation to register and the customer's obligation to be informed will disappear from the legislative proposal? I'd like a response from the proposers. One of the important aspects of this is whether someone is here without a residence permit. How hard does such an indication weigh, for example when the person comes from one of the recognised risk countries? Now the comparison with the minors. I spoke earlier about the relationship with the special protection that minors enjoy against exploitation in prostitution. However, we do not find that provision in the title Crimes against freedom, but in the title Crimes against vice, in Article 248b. There are still some differences; for example, knowing whether it can reasonably suspect any file parts. In addition, the proposers added a second paragraph to their original proposal, with a heavier penalty limit. Why didn't the proposers choose to make these two provisions more uniform? This can be done, for example, on the basis that a person who is underage can by definition be considered to be in an exploitation situation and thus a victim of trafficking in human beings. The applicants have chosen not to seek direct connection with the stock part of the advantage from the exploitation of the other, in Article 273f. That would have been conceivable. This advantage can be of a financial nature, because of the low price, but it may also be available as such. Can the proposers go into that again? In relation to the initiative proposal, we also talk about special sexual acts involving a third party by exploited prostitutes and the involvement of the customer. I have two notions. First, you buy sexual services from a prostitute, but not by definition. The exploited woman or man may be in a completely different position to a prostitute in relation to that exploitation. I am reminded of the Valkenburg girl and I would also like to refer to her: she was wrongly called "prostitute" because she was only a victim. Do the proposers recognise that it is not necessarily a prostitute? A second aspect is that the applicants only develop the customer's responsibility in relation to victims of trafficking in human beings in terms of sexual services. Why is that? Article 273f deals with many forms of exploitation which can also be classified as forms of trafficking in human beings, such as domestic slavery, the sale of organs and so on. With such facts there are other customers who benefit from exploitation, such as the buyer of an organ. Why is this knowing or reasonably suspecting not culpable? Why did the proposers confine themselves to buying sexual services under conditions of exploitation? In this context, I would also refer to the 2008 De Pater-Van der Meer motion, which pointed out that police investigations at least at the time showed that representatives from different professional groups were facilitating work at the request of traffickers, such as providing housing and providing false employer statements. But there were also doctors who performed medical procedures in prostitutes such as abortions and breast enlargements, which were not based on the client's autonomous decisions, but were done at the request of a pimp. Where's the signal function of all these relationships? Or, to stay in the spirit of the bill: where is their criminal responsibility? I also have a question for the Minister. What does he think of the suggestion to raise the prostitute's age to 21? I'm rounding up. The proposers aim their arrows at the prostitute and his responsibility. There's a lot to say about that. The cases of Valkenburg and the Rotterdam garage box, where minors were exploited, are still fresh in our minds. Quite a lot happens when a customer suddenly turns out to have committed a criminal act. The impact is not comparable to a traffic fine that unexpectedly falls on the mat, even if it is a very heavy fine. That can be hard for the customer and his environment, maybe his family. That's not good. Perhaps, however, this circumstance is all the more an illustration of what I started my contribution with, namely: prostitution is not normal. I look forward with interest to the answers of the proposers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u31	Now that Mr Voordewind has made his full contribution, I ask him to what extent he sees the bill as a first step towards a system similar to that in Sweden, in which a full criminalisation of the prostitute was introduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u32	We're talking about this bill now. That's unrelated to the sequel. I would like to draw all the attention to this proposal and wait for this legislative proposal to be dealt with before we think about it again. I will not do that, but my colleague Segers. There are now several measures in the pipeline. Think of the increase in the age of the prostitutes from 18 to 21 years old. These measures could contribute to combating trafficking in human beings in prostitution and to protecting the prostitute better than is currently the case. This is independent of the moral objections that you can have and which the Christian Union also has with prostitutes and prostitution in general.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u33	I'm trying to get the image for myself. You do not see this as a step towards a ban on prostitution as such? Do you?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u34	I leave it to the proposers to take further initiatives. I am not the first spokesperson in this area. The initiative lies with the initiators. We will see what other initiatives result from this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u35	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would also like to congratulate the initiators for the great amount of work that an initiative legislative proposal brings with it. Of course, it's always quite a challenge and it's very exciting. However, we must now talk about the content. That's what I'm about to do. The initiators propose that it be punishable by committing sexual acts with a prostitute (e) while the customer knows or reasonably has to suspect that he or she is being forced to do so. A customer using sexual services in such a situation contributes to the maintenance of a network of exploitation and trafficking in human beings. The customer is punishable if he does not refrain from using those services while there are obvious signs of victimisation. These may be external signs of abuse, but they may also be expressions of fear, disgust or grief, locations that lie afterwards or are hidden from normal sight, discussions via intermediaries or a prostitute (e) which is presented to the customer under duress. The initiators have distinguished between the design variant and the debt variant. When the prostitute knows that the prostitute to be visited is a victim of trafficking in human beings, it is deliberate. There is the type of debt if the prostitute does not know and uses the services, but should have known that there is victimisation, i.e., in this case, coercion. Then it's not about intent, it's about guilt. The bill aims to criminalise both variants.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u36	In the past, we wanted abuses in the sex sector to be dealt with. To this end, the law on prostitution regulation and the fight against sexual abuse has been submitted. They included the obligation to register the prostitute and the obligation to make the customer aware. However, a motion has been tabled and adopted in the First Chamber to remove the obligation to register and enforce from the legislative proposal. My group, like the Christian Union Group, was against this motion. My group was not against the obligation to register, because it would create a contact moment at which signals of exploitation could be received. However, my group was opposed to the obligation to be consulted. By having the customer check whether the prostitute is registered, my group does not believe that you are picking up any signs of exploitation or trafficking in human beings. The initiators consider the removal of the obligation to register and the obligation to delete from the law I have just quoted to be a weakening of the original bill, because the customer does not have a role in dealing with trafficking in human beings. This is what they are trying to repair with this initiative. In this context, my group is curious as to why two of the initiating parties, namely the PvdA and the SP, voted in favour of the motion in the First Chamber which removed both duties from the legislative proposal. The fact that the initiators are still trying to find a way to give the customer a role in dealing with trafficking in human beings is ambitious and that is always good. The legislative proposal sounds sympathetic, but my group provides problems with the burden of proof and, as a result, with the enforcement. My group believes that it is a long way from charging customers for the fact that sometimes they do not recognize vague signals. Make no mistake: it should also have been known that the prostitute is being forced to do so, which is the debt variant.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Of course, it is clear to everyone that there is coercion or involuntary action when the actions have to take place in a garage box or in a remote location. It's getting a little harder in a hotel. So the question is, where is the border? According to my group, all victims of trafficking deserve protection; let there be no mistake about that. So this also applies to those who are forced to work in the hospitality industry or who are even worse, you would say that they are forced to give up an organ. They're all covered by the law on trafficking in human beings. Why is this distinction made? After all, all victims of trafficking in human beings should be prevented. The fact that there are fewer of these victims than forced prostitutes under the heading of 'trafficking in human beings' does not make the seriousness of these facts any different. This brings me once again to the question of where the border lies. Will customers of a Chinese restaurant where the staff are forced to work be punishable as well? Should the customer ask if his waitress makes an unhappy impression and if, for example, the price for the food is too low to be true? Is this not the way to set a precedent for other crimes in which victims are to be regretted? Will the operator of a shop in catering attributes become punishable if a murder is committed with a knife he sells? Do the initiators not see any danger to equality of law? My group fears that the gentlemen and ladies of the judiciary will each give a different interpretation of the condition of victimisation, because it is a very broad concept, especially given that the variant of guilt, it should have known, is also a criminal offence. In doing so, my group wonders whether the proposal actually makes a significant contribution to addressing the problem. The most recent example of this is a case in the south of the country known as "the Valkenburg vice case." In it, the clients of an underage girl who was forced into prostitution were sentenced by the judge to only one day's imprisonment in order to circumvent the statutory public service ban. Customers were therefore sentenced to community service for a serious sexual offence. Although it was not the crime of trafficking in human beings, it was the coercion of a minor to commit sexual acts, that is Article 248b of the Code of Criminal Law, which makes the seriousness of the crime no different. In both cases it is a question of protecting the physical and mental integrity of the victim. Unfortunately, as I said just now in the case of interruption, it also shows that the penalties imposed for trafficking in human beings are falling in practice, while politics decided, not so long ago, in 2013, that it wanted to impose stricter penalties on this crime by increasing the maximum penalty, which means that the crime can no longer be allowed to lapse. Judges clearly have no message about this, because the punishments go down. I realize that the separation of powers makes it difficult to move judges anywhere. I therefore ask the question differently: is the Minister prepared to introduce minimum penalties for these serious crimes? Then there is a lower limit to the punishment that should be imposed at least for this type of serious crime. With the ceiling raised if you do nothing at the bottom, the bandwidth is too large as far as my group is concerned. There's no signal from that either. Then you will really have to set a lower limit through the legislative process. Then there is no question of violating the separation of powers. I would like to hear a response from the Minister, although I can almost guess it. But hope brings life! As far as my group is concerned, the current approach to trafficking in human beings must be improved before we introduce sympathetic but difficult criminalisation into the law. It's the human traffickers who need to be the first to be dealt with. It is already a great challenge for the investigation services to get a picture of them and prosecute them. So, for the time being, my group does find the initiative legislative proposal to be sympathetic, but in practice it is difficult to enforce, with which it will not have any added value in practice. That is why it is up to the initiators to convince my group in the first term. For the moment, our position is that we will vote against the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u37	Mrs Helder advocates a firm approach to trafficking in human beings. How is that consistent with the current practice that abusers of human trafficking victims cannot be prosecuted in any way, even if all signals are red and if a perpetrator simply knew it was a victim of trafficking in human beings? Even if the victim tells the perpetrator that she is a victim of human trafficking, he cannot be prosecuted now. This situation is maintained by the Lady if she votes against this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u38	That's incorrect. He could be prosecuted. That is simply stated in the explanatory memorandum. It's just a little tricky. But that does not make it necessary for my group to come up with this proposal. That's in my story, too. We fear that the practice will be that a customer will not report it at all if he is punishable. All the organisations consulted in the consultation round have indicated that you can now bring it under the scope of Article 273f (6) but that it is difficult. I'm not denying that. But it is not that it cannot be dealt with now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u39	It's not just tricky, it's never happened before. In fact, this means that Mrs Helder is letting go of the situation that abusers of victims of human trafficking go free. They have free play, they can do whatever they want, and they are in no way accessible. To be honest, I am disappointed that the PVV has allowed this to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u40	I refer to the input I have just given. I'm far from blaming you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u41	I know that Mrs Helder often attaches great importance to the opinion of the National Rapporteur. How does it consider the recommendation of the National Rapporteur to introduce a specific criminal offence? The more general provisions mentioned by Mrs Helder are in practice a dead letter. It is important that this can be tackled.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u42	As I said in my speech, we fear that it has no added value. I refer to my earlier words. I simply have the feeling that it will not, in practice, lead to more declarations. 'Cause who's gonna report it? The victim himself? Then it's possible. However, my group sees no added value in criminalising the customer through the victim in order to tackle trafficking in human beings.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u43	Mrs Helder has indeed indicated that. The National Rapporteur, like no other in the years that lie behind, has really mapped out the whole field. That's what we wanted as a room. The national rapporteur has looked very closely at what is effective and which can be questioned. She has really said: there is an added value to be expected, especially when we look at the practice of the provisions so far. That is why I am asking the question: how does Mrs Helder feel about the national rapporteur?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u44	So that on this point I still stand by the view that it is up to the initiators to convince my group. We are not convinced by what the National Rapporteur has written.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u45	The willingness to convince is there. Mrs. Gesthuizen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u46	I would like to ask Mrs Helder a two-fold question, especially since she said in her last sentence that her group is currently negative about the legislative proposal. The first part of my question concerns what Mrs Helder says about the possibility of enforcement. I assume that Mrs Helder is aware that the Public Prosecutor's Office is very keen on this bill; they have not yet been begged for it. May I save my second question for further interruption?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u47	We do the interruptions in two.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u48	It's still exciting. The fact that the D.A.'s office is in a hurry with this initiative didn't convince us either. We have all read it well and this is the position taken by my group today. No matter how many emails people have received and how many organisations have advised positively; for the time being we are not convinced.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u49	Then I would like to know whether Mrs Helder's belief that this would be about poor enforcement is mainly based on a feeling or also on facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u50	Facts? That is, of course, very difficult, because we do not yet have the initiative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u51	With which I conclude that it is a feeling. I have another interruption. My second question concerns one, albeit a bit difficult to compare, example in the current legislation, namely the situation that you can reasonably suspect is stolen property, for example because of the price you have to pay. I believe that in a newspaper article somewhere Mr Oskam mentioned very nicely the example of a new scooter for €200. We know this of course; it is not a novel in criminal law. Then how does the PVV Group view that article of the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u52	We are not talking about the article of the law today, we are talking about this bill. This is about a "reasonable presumption based on the observation of vague signals." That is, of course, something quite different from a low price. I also said, let there be no misunderstanding: if there is a remote location, you go to the design variant. This also includes the debt variant, namely that the customer is punishable, because he should have reasonably suspected, on the basis of vague signals, that there is exploitation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u53	Let me get this straight. The article on healing also refers to "reasonably possible to suspect." So again, that's not a novel in criminal law. A low price is in healing direction. If you have to pay €10 or €15 for a particular sexual service, I'm not very well informed about this.Of course, this can be a clear signal in this respect. I wouldn't want to ignore that. Does Mrs Helder agree with me that not all the signals need to be vague and that this is not what these proposers have written the bill for?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u54	No, not all signals need to be vague, but it's in there and the debt variant is in there, too. I'll judge it by the whole thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u55	I'm gonna head back to the state's attorney's office. Mrs Helder says she fears that this bill will not lead to more reports. Does she see the possibility that is being described and what the prosecution has made extensive comments on, namely that the bill could lead to the final conviction of the prostitute who is abusing someone who is in the clutches of human traffickers?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u56	No, not for the time being, because otherwise I would not have provided the input I have just provided. I think it is remarkable that such a great added value is now being seen in the preventive operation of criminal law. If my group makes proposals for criminal judgment and punishment, let me give you an example of marriage coercion, then there is hardly anyone for that. Now it has to be at this point. I don't know. I don't know. The position of the Public Prosecutor has not changed my group's mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u57	No, I understand that from your words, but how much do you weigh the fact that the prosecution has almost begged the initiators to make their work easier, so that there will eventually be a first conviction? There have been no convictions in the past, and now the prosecution asks the legislator: help us by laying this down in the law, so that we can act more effectively in the fight against trafficking in human beings. How do you weigh that argument from the state's attorney's office?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u58	As I have already said in my speech, my group is not convinced that it will be more effective in dealing with trafficking in human beings. I have also said that, as far as my group is concerned, the Public Prosecutor's Office can concentrate more on dealing with the traffickers themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u59	Mrs. Brighter, clear. Thank you very much. I call Mr Van der Staaij of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u60	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I sincerely congratulate the three initiators for the good work they have done. I think this is a good example of how parties with very different views in the field of prostitution, which applies to trafficking in human beings to a lesser extent, but for prostitution, can still find each other on very precise penalties. This is perhaps characteristic of this subject, although we have precisely the polarization around the subject in mind. If you look a little further back in history, the introduction of the brothel ban in 1911 arose from the desire of very different groups in society from the women's movement on the one hand, from the movement of the Reveil on the other hand, to be able to mean something in practice for people who often had a very difficult time and who were exploited, as we would say now. The striking thing is that when the brothel ban was later abolished, in 2001, which also happened in the name of the fight against trafficking in human beings. The ban on brothel trafficking has been introduced once in order to combat trafficking in human beings better, and it has been abolished in order to combat trafficking in human beings better. I think the conclusion after so many years is that the lifting of the ban on brotheling was not the cure for losing all wrongdoing with a magic wand. On the contrary, there is still every reason to consider, from different political parties and from different angles, how these abuses can be dealt with. As such, I have already said that I greatly appreciate the work that is going on here today. I would also like to thank the advisers of the Chamber. "Adviseurs" is actually not the right word, because the advisor of the Chamber is the minister in this matter. The supporters of the initiators, I must say. The SGP is positive about this bill, let me start with that right away, but of course we still have some wishes. It is striking that so many years after the lifting of the brothel ban, the prostitution sector is still full of abuses. The 2012 crime image analysis shows that an estimated 55% of the prostitutes are victims of sexual exploitation. When I saw that back on paper, I thought, "Isn't that a mistake? Isn't that number much lower? That much? But it's really there. I checked it out. It is estimated that a huge number of prostitutes are victims of sexual exploitation. So we are talking about an extremely serious problem. Even if you remove the group that is clearly deceived and under duress does that work, there are still many who have fallen into it because of an accumulation of problems. People who would have liked to have chosen a different future, people who have fallen into it because of lack of money or any circumstances. The national rapporteur has also said that the romantic image of prostitutes who freely choose this work is undermined by the harsh reality of trafficking in human beings. From the outset, the SGP Group has expressed its view that sex is not a commodity and that it is an illusion that legal prostitution belongs to a free country. It has also been clearly stated from other party political points of view. I am thinking of our Deputy Prime Minister, who, in his capacity as alderman of Amsterdam, spoke of commercial rape. These are very far-reaching words, but they do show that the romantic image of prostitution has become obsolete. The SGP Group supports the plans to combat sexual exploitation, but we believe that it should and should continue. Among other things, Sweden's example has already been mentioned in this debate. Finland and other countries have also chosen the approach to criminalise all brothel visits and ultimately prostitution visits. We are in favour of this. However, we note, also on the basis of previous debates, when we discussed this in greater detail, that there is no room for majority voting. Nevertheless, it is always good to consider what measures we can agree on. In practice, it appears difficult to address customers on the basis of existing criminal provisions when it comes to sexual exploitation. We therefore share the view that it should be criminal if someone goes to a prostitute when he is familiar with it, or could have been aware of it, that there is trafficking in human beings or that there is at least a reasonable suspicion of it. The addition of a new ban is complementary to the possibilities available on the basis of the article on trafficking in human beings. The existing legal provisions do not provide sufficient protection, as the explanatory memorandum clearly shows. We certainly see room for additional measures. We are in favour of this. In this sense, we do not support, as has been said, that this bill is the keystone. The word "closing stone" suggests that it is the last stone to be placed in the structure, but as far as we are concerned, new stones may be added to this structure. One point I would like to raise, which has already been mentioned by Mr Voordewind at the end of his speech, concerns the minimum age of prostitutes. Only limited research has been carried out in this area, but this study shows that the visit of prostitutes also takes place by minors. 9% of men were even younger than 16 at the time of their first visit to a brothel. About 35% were between 16 and 20 years old. The bill asks people to be aware of the position of a prostitute. If boys from 16 or 17 enter a brothel, they should judge whether there are signs of trafficking on the basis of the bill. If we look at other laws, we find that young people's judgment is not yet fully developed. I am thinking of the draft law on forced marriages that Mrs Helder mentioned. We have raised the age limit for alcohol and tobacco. Young people aged 16 and 17 are not allowed to do certain dangerous work. Prostitué(e)s may only do their work from the age of 21 after adopting the Law regulation prostitution. You could imagine that we are in favour of increasing the age of prostitutes to at least 21 years. In this case, too, we can make serious efforts to protect against exploitation. We are considering tabling an amendment on this point. In his amendment, Mr Oskam drew attention to the penalty. We have already drawn attention to this in the report. The answer to that is not really satisfactory. That is why we are calling for a serious look at the proposals that have been made to increase penalties. Doesn't the penalty measure now chosen mean that it's actually not that bad? Isn't that punishment at the expense of the possible punishment for this crime? In this context, I refer to the view of the Court of Justice. Among other things, the College of Attorneys General calls for attention to be paid to the prosecution of the offence. The College states that with high quality detection and evidence collection it is possible to successfully prosecute. That's an important fact. We therefore call on the Minister to pay particular attention to this issue if this bill is to be made law. Finally, the SGP calls for attention to be paid to the introduction of a pimp ban. That too is a long-term issue. The authors say that a ban on souteurism is not at issue, because it is actually covered by the current scope of Article 273f of the Code of Criminal Law. My question is how they arrive at this position. The report received by the Court this spring shows that it is much more nuanced. Among other things, Peter Lemaire indicates that evidence is difficult to provide and others include him. Surely it should not be explored whether a tightening-up is possible and necessary here? These were my first-term comments. I greatly appreciate the legislative proposal as it stands and what I wish to further dress it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u61	Mr. Chairman. First of all, of course, I would like to express my appreciation to those Members who have tabled this initiative proposal. It is always nice to see colleagues in the role of legislator. This is, of course, an important subject. D66 therefore supports the importance of combating trafficking in human beings. Both in the prostitution sector and in other sectors, we must protect victims and punish exploiters. However, we do wonder to what extent this bill actually contributes to the fight against trafficking in human beings. This bill is intended to criminalise the person who carries out sexual acts with a prostitute when he or she knows or reasonably suspects that he or she has been forced or moved to do so. D66 believes that this is a good goal, but the question is whether this bill will effectively combat trafficking in human beings. People who exploit or abuse other people are already punishable by law. Unfortunately, the perpetrators are not always arrested or punished. The theory, the Code of Criminal Law, is not the only problem. The biggest problem is usually in practice, namely the taking of evidence. At the same time, the problem lies with my group. After all, how can you prove someone knows something? And, even harder, how can you prove that someone could reasonably suspect anything? This leads to the question of whether this bill can be enforced at all. The message that the Christian Union, which wants to deliver SP and the PvdA, namely 'beware of signs of trafficking in human beings', is very good. That's what D66's behind. However, the way in which these parties believe this should be done is difficult for us. We are not convinced that this bill is effective in eliminating abuses. We believe that proper information is necessary and that it is precisely the prostitute who is needed to identify abuses. Cooperation between police, prostitutes and prostitutes is of great value. The theory and practice are not getting any closer with this bill. That is why my group still has a number of questions. Between knowing something and supposedly suspecting something, there's quite a difference. We agree with the design variant of "something is known," but we share the Council of State's concerns about the debt variant, which should be reasonably suspected. How can we prove that someone could have reasonably known that it was a sex worker who was forced to do so? Finnish practice shows that science of exploitation, intent, is difficult to prove. Why do the proposers think failure of consciousness, guilt, will be easier to prove? If criminalisation of the customer cannot be enforced in practice, what is the added value of the proposal? What is the added value of the debt variant compared to the design variant, given the objection of the prostitute's lack of foreseeability? Are the proposers prepared to take a zero measurement of the number of convictions per year and to evaluate this after a number of years, in order to check whether better results are achieved in the Dutch variant than in the Finnish option? Unlike the initiators, D66 believes, with the Dutch Association for Justice, that the criminalisation of the customer will not be an incentive to report wrongdoings. This could even be counterproductive. This is a frightening effect towards the customers. A client will be less inclined to report abuses if he fears persecution. We have asked the applicants what percentage of the reports on trafficking in human beings is currently being made by customers. They didn't know that, but this is definitely relevant to the law. That is why I ask whether the initiators are prepared to take a zero measurement and evaluate this after a number of years, in order to check whether the desired effect is achieved.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u62	I should like to ask Mrs Berndsen-Jansen the same question as I asked Mrs Helder. Is Mrs Berndsen-Jansen well aware of the reaction of the College of Attorney General? Is she also aware of the article of the law, that I only took a moment to be sure? It's really there. It says that you are also punishable if you should reasonably have suspected that the good you bought was a property obtained by a felony. So it's not a novum.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u63	Mrs Gesthuizen now asks me two questions. I'll deal with the first one first. Every time Mrs Gesthuizen says very clearly here that the College of Attorney General, the Public Prosecutor's Office, has been hastily begging for this law. There is something else in it, namely that it requires a high quality of detection and evidence collection. I'm thinking, let's start with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u64	What is your answer to the second question, Mrs Berndsen?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u65	For an answer to the second question, I simply refer to the Council of State. This makes an explicit distinction with a market-based product of which you should reasonably know the price. In the sex sector, I think that price is a little less visible or clear. In this sense, the Council of State also indicates that this will be difficult to prove.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u66	I am sorry that Mrs Berndsen-Jansen does not want to take note of an opinion from the College at one time and hide behind another opinion at another time. To be honest, I think that is a bit of a weakness in the debate. I'd love to know what D66 thinks now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u67	If Mrs. Gesthuizen had listened, she would have known. D66 finds the design variant acceptable. However, according to D66, the debt variant puts the horse behind the car because of its difficult enforcement, which may not lead to a conviction.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u68	The good news is that Mrs Berndsen clearly says: the design variant supports D66. But wouldn't it be a hollowing out of the bill if we were left alone? After all, only in a very limited number of situations can you prove that hard, conscious or possibly slightly lighter design. Doesn't Mrs Berndsen therefore think it is very important that we should be able to use this type of debt in practice? Does the Finnish situation not show that this limitation to the design variant is very lean?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u69	I am so afraid that I am not alone in saying that the judges are unable to deal with this type of debt and that it will lead to less conviction. That is why I say: limit this to the design variant. Furthermore, we need to ensure that the police and the judiciary carry out proper investigation and bring proper evidence to the courts. Then there might be a conviction.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u70	A follow-up question from Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u71	The conflicting point in what Mrs Berndsen says is that in many cases, on the one hand, intent is much harder to prove than guilt and, on the other hand, the effect in practice may be that customers can also more easily get rid of their responsibilities by saying 'I am punishable only in the event of actual intent'. So you don't really have to do your best to find out if it's kosher. What does she think about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u72	The Council of State is not the first to be the best body, and I am sure that Mr Van der Staaij agrees with me that it is precisely so difficult to reach a verdict on this type of debt. On the contrary, the council advocates the use of the design variant. Moreover, the Council has also said so in its case-law. The probativeness of a reasonable presumption is extremely difficult, especially in these kinds of issues.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u73	I have a number of questions on the subject. The first question: how many fewer convictions does Mrs Berndsen-Jansen think there will be, less than zero? That's gonna be a complicated number, I think. The second question. Does she think, if she's afraid of fewer reports of misdemeanors from seekers of paid sex, that it's okay that those seekers of paid sex first have sex with the victim before they report misdemeanour? From experience, I know this happens a lot. So they take sex first and then report a miscarriage. The consequence of the law could be that they no longer have sex with the victim and yet report it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u74	These are a lot of questions at once.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u75	That's right. I'll keep it for you, Mrs. Berndsen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u76	There's two of them, and I'd like to ask you another one. The third question is about the good detective work. Take the Valkenburg vice case. In that we saw texts from customers with a pimp and condoms with sperm. There is a clear link to a customer and a situation that we reject. That was an underage girl, but if it were a grown-up girl, wouldn't it be possible to create exactly the same situation? Isn't that what you want to be able to prosecute?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u77	To begin with, there is an explicit distinction between underage and adult. This matter concerned a girl who was underage. The Code of Criminal Law already explicitly states that this is always a criminal offence, and so it should be. As far as those zero convictions are concerned, with the same ease, I can say: first try that set-up variant and then see where that leads. But don't take that other variant with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u78	What about the number of reports? That was the second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u79	The number of reports of what? I've lost that for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u80	The first question was about the number of cases and the second question was whether it would not be right for seekers of paid sex to report abuses without having sex with the victim. If they don't have sex with the victim, they have nothing to fear from this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u81	That's just the question. Maybe you can't tell until after you've had sex, after you've seen someone with bruises and stuff.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u82	Well, then you'll call the Crime Anonymous, I'd say. The most important point is that these are matters that are not being prosecuted. There are no clients being prosecuted, even though there are cases. We see cases where pimps are convicted of trafficking in human beings and there are also signs that there are customers. We know who they are, but we cannot condemn them. That's not happening right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u83	Please come to your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u84	In my view, Mrs Berndsen-Jansen maintains the situation by saying: they need to know. Knowing that is impossible to prove, because then the client has to declare that he already knew before he had sex. That is indeed an impossibility in the law that will not produce much results.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u85	The initiators themselves come up with the design variant in this bill. Well, I guess you should try that first. The other goes far too far, which is hard to prove, is not enforceable. High Colleges of State say that. You cannot agree with me, but I agree with the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u86	Mrs Berndsen pretends that this makes it more difficult, but we also know this wording in other legislation. Think of falsehood in writing, discrimination and healing. In these cases, the legislator has also been very precise in the wording: a "reasonable presumption" to actually condemn. So why is the D66 group so reluctant about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u87	I've already answered that. I have just answered Mrs Gesthuizen's question and that was exactly the same question. It was also about market forces and knowing amounts of money that depended on something. This is much more difficult in this market, as the Council of State has also indicated in its opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u88	I don't think we're gonna figure it out. The D.A. and the judges say, please, help us, because we can't judge anyone now. Let me ask you another question. If the Van Oosten/Berndsen amendment were adopted, would Mrs Berndsen vote in favour of the legislative proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u89	That's what I said. My group can agree to the design variant.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u90	I see Mrs Gesthuizen is trying to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u91	I'm wondering one thing. I think I heard Mrs Berndsen-Jansen argue for a comparison with the situation in Finland.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u92	I hear Mrs Berndsen saying that this is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u93	At least that's how I understood it. I had the impression that she said: do some kind of measurement and look at if this bill has been in force for some time now whether things are going differently or better here than in Finland. If that's not the case, I'd be happy to take my question back. However, I still have a question about this. Mrs Jansen wants to align the situation here with that in Finland, and she wants to compare it with the Finnish situation. Well, then that's pretty much the same situation, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u94	I take as my starting point this initiative proposal, which mentions both variants. That's my question. I did ask for a check over time, to see how that relates to each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u95	Mrs Berndsen signs an amendment tabled by Mr Van Oosten. To be honest, I think that is almost a destructive amendment to this bill, because in my view it really does not change very much the current practice, which results in zero condemnations. The amendment she tabled with Mr Van Oosten, in my view, makes the situation about the same as the Finnish situation. Mrs Berndsen then asked the applicants whether they were prepared to compare the situation that would arise in the Netherlands with the Finnish situation. Well, that's gonna be a very simple equation, isn't it? After all, you compare two identical situations with each other. Mrs Berndsen can laugh about that now, but I don't think this is funny at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u96	Mrs. Gesthuizen doesn't have to get mad right away. I can tell by her non-verbal communication.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u97	I call Mrs Berndsen-Jansen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u98	I'm assuming the bill that's in place right now. It is not certain that the VDD and D66 amendments will be adopted. If that is accepted, there is another situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u99	I have a point of order. I may have communicated non-verbally, but you do that by laughing, so...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u100	There is no need to respond to this point of order. Mrs Berndsen continued her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u101	In the authorised sector, the customer should be able to assume that he is using a service that meets the requirements of the law. The municipality provides for a permit and supervision and control. As far as we are concerned, if we are dealing with trafficking in human beings in the licensed sector, the responsibility lies not with the customer, but with the operator. Are the applicants prepared to assume responsibility for the legal and authorised sector rather than for the customer? If the supervisory authorities are not able to detect signs of coercion or exploitation during checks, how can a customer of the legal and authorised sector do so? There are many victims of trafficking who end up in prostitution, but prostitution is not synonymous with trafficking in human beings. Not all prostitutes are victims of trafficking in human beings and not all trafficking in human beings has to do with prostitution. Exploitation is also taking place in other sectors. We must combat trafficking in human beings in prostitution, but also in agriculture, horticulture and catering, with effective measures and adequate supervision and enforcement. D66 is in favour of a well-regulated prostitution sector, adequate supervision of the industry and good working conditions for the prostitutes. A legal prostitution industry is necessary to combat the major abuses in this sector effectively. It is important to prevent prostitutes from entering the illegal circuit. In that circuit the police have no idea and there is no control, so exploitation and abuse are more common. New articles of law can't solve much. It is more important that there is more detection capacity to combat forced prostitution and trafficking in human beings and that more attention is paid to the victims, in particular to minors. Good care and specialised care are therefore needed. My group awaits the answers of the authors, but it has so far been shown that my group is critical of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u102	Mrs Berndsen-Jansen is calling for more capacity for detection, but the detectives are asking for an instrument to deal with actual abuses and bring customers to justice. However, it does not want to give them this instrument. Isn't there a contradiction?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u103	I didn't see any advice from the police. Trackers are detectives, policemen. I did not see them asking for other instruments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u104	Maybe it's good to ask them about that. If we talk to them, they'll tell us they're waiting for this. I know that from my previous practice. I can easily imagine that Mrs Berndsen-Jansen from her previous practice also has an idea whether this will help. It is also a question for the proposers to clarify it so that it becomes clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u105	That's not a question for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u106	You may pass on the question if you wish. You have completed your speech. Thank you. I call Mr Van Oosten of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u107	Mr. Chairman. Following on from colleagues, I will begin by complimenting colleagues who are now in box K for once. I always find it a very special moment to see colleagues from our own House of Representatives do that real legislative work. In particular, I'm a little proud of them. Last year we all together, not just the four of us, but also other colleagues, made a trip to Bulgaria and Romania in the context of trafficking in human beings and the fight against it. We've seen a lot of trouble there. We visited a shelter where girls were protected after they were sometimes abused or threatened by it. We have spoken with the Roma community, in which the problem of trafficking in human beings seems to arise from time to time. We have met with authorities, who sometimes, unfortunately, in my view, did just a little too little to deal with trafficking in human beings. I am pleased to see that perhaps this journey has inspired these colleagues to give them their hands and feet and to translate that in their own way into the proposal we are discussing tonight. Because I, too, have been through that journey, I have really tried to look at the proposal in the most positive way. That is why I am also saying that I am trying to put the same inspiration that colleagues may recognize in my contribution in a very crucial part of the legislative proposal that is now on the table: the design variant. However, I would like to come to the substantive discussion of the proposal. I really have a lot of critical questions when it comes to the debt variant. I pay particular attention to this. I am not the only one with a critical attitude towards the reasonable suspicion of victimisation in the prostitute. I have heard a number of others say it, but I also read it back in the response of the Council of State in this area. I quote the Council's opinion. It is "(...) insufficient for the customer when he is criminally liable. Indeed, it is difficult to determine when the signals of trafficking in human beings are so clear and known to the customer that they should reasonably suspect trafficking in human beings." That is why I am asking colleagues a number of questions. I have already included some of these questions in my written contribution, but I do not think they have been adequately answered. When, in the eyes of the initiators, is there a reasonable presumption of guilt and when not? What can the customer expect? How does a customer recognise compulsion from a prostitute in such a way that that customer should have a reasonable suspicion of that victimization? Could science of financial problems, for example, give rise to the reasonable suspicion of victimisation? I just don't know and I'm asking the initiators for clarification. I say this all the more because I am afraid that this law is going to go to the other side, namely that a customer must constantly fear criminal prosecution. Let me be clear about it, as far as the VVD is concerned, the unnecessary criminalisation of clients of prostitutes should be avoided. Let us not forget that prostitution in this country is a legal profession, which allows ladies and gentlemen to be economically independent. I therefore do not think that the result of such a law should be that customers constantly feel the hot breath of justice in their necks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u108	I am surprised, because I hear Mr Van Oosten saying that he cannot interpret it properly. He asks the authors to explain it, but he has already tabled an amendment in advance in which he says he is against it. If I understand correctly, the amendment goes so far as to say that it agrees with the design variant, but the debt variant does not understand. That's what he's saying now. I'm trying to explain his explanation. Mrs Gesthuizen is right to say that Mr Oskam has clearly explained it in Dutch Dagblad. I've drawn the terminology to healing. That's hard for people to describe, too. When are you gonna buy something that's wrong? When someone says, "Oh, man, I stole it," you know, when you buy it. If you're buying a car whose ignition lock is broken, you should have reasonably known. If you pay far too little for a car like this, it's not pure coffee.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u109	But come to your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u110	Yeah, I'm coming, but I have to explain, 'cause otherwise nobody gets it. My point is that Mr Van Oosten in his explanatory statement says that they may be external circumstances. It could also be a sum of all those circumstances. Then I think: yes, if that sum is there, it can be almost no different than conditional intent. Then it's covered by that set-up variant. We're not gonna make it a witch hunt, but if the circumstances are really weird, for example because of the low price, because of the language, because of the poor conditions under which someone has to work, or because you ask to see someone's passport, but who says it's taken, then as a customer you have to think it's not pure coffee. Under these circumstances, there may be the debt variant. If so, can Mr Van Oosten live with that? Does he see the added value of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u111	No, I can't live with the debt variant. That is why I tabled that amendment. I have tried to explain that, in line with the Council of State, I believe that the debt variant raises too many questions in terms of predictability and legal certainty, including of the customer. At the same time, as I have tried to explain in the amendment tabled by Mr Berndsen and I, which gives the conditional design a proper scope, including to the Public Prosecutor's Office, to address those customers who also accept that significant opportunity. It is now a fairly legal discourse, if we do not pay attention, but that is also what the Council of State says. They should know it's wrong. Let me say this right away, because it was a rather long question that could lead this answer. I see there's gonna be questions. That'll give this an anchor in the law. There isn't now. In doing so, I am trying to respond to Mr Van Laar, given the questions he has put to my colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u112	Now I am going to attack Mr Van Oosten on his explanatory statement. He says that conditional design can be seen in two ways: looking at external factors, or a combination or sum. He is right that there are several factors in a sum sum and that it is not possible but that it is wrong; that is then that conditional set-up. But it is precisely the external factors that I mentioned and which the authors can fill in at a later date that can lead to such a variant of debt.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u113	Do you know where we differ? Design, in all its degrees, sees deliberate action. In addition, you will find me by your side. Guilt looks like it's acting unintentionally. I have a problem with that, because I'm afraid that would criminalize the client. But I am also afraid of it and I was in the process of explaining to you that this stigmatizes a legal sector. I myself have heard the sex workers, the women who are active in this industry, express their extreme concerns about this. I think it is very appropriate to draw attention to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u114	Mr Van Oosten sketches the picture that there will be a witch hunt for all the clients of the prostitutes if this is adopted, because if we adopt this bill, the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the judges will apparently not be able to properly assess whether there is any culpability and guilt. Does Mr Van Oosten really want to put that image on the table, or does he still have any confidence in the capacity of these organisations, so that this law can also be properly implemented?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u115	I have every confidence in our state's attorney's office and in our police. However, I also see what this law could lead to if the legal text became that way. If the legal text states that a reasonable presumption can be enough for a criminal offence, because that is how it is expressed in the law, then I object to it. I simply think that goes too far, given that it is rather complicated to establish that and therefore it is not foreseeable for the customer and thus affects the principle of legal certainty. No misunderstanding: I really have a great deal of feeling for the bill as it stands, but I do think you should handle it wisely. That is why I say: put a sensible limit and stop at the design variant.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u116	In the case of a minor taking paid services, that limit is much further: you don't need to know, you don't even have to suspect it; if you take paid sex from such a person, you're just punishable. With this law, therefore, we would make the border easier, because at least you have to suspect it. So not everyone is a criminal offence, so to speak. There's a trade-off, both from the police and the D.A.'s and the judge's, in determining whether someone's guilty. The question is why this limit should be moved further, so far that such a law can no longer be implemented in practice. That is exactly what the executive services are saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u117	You take a lot of comments in the run-up to your question. I dispute that a limitation of the bill to the design variant, including the conditional design, would not provide a handle to, for example, the Public Prosecutor's Office. Perhaps the Public Prosecutor would also like to see it more comprehensive at the moment, or it says that there are fewer possibilities now if it is not able to add that type of debt. I get that, too. But if I follow the initiators, there's a gap in the law right now. I would say that with that design variant a lot has already been won. You are mixing the issue of minors in your question. I refer to the answer given by Mrs Berndsen. I do not think it is right to mix the issue of sex with minors with this proposal every time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u118	Mr Van Oosten says that you could deal with the gap even with the design variant. But what if it emerged that this gap could also lie in cases where design cannot be sufficiently demonstrated, while there are situations where you can feel on your clogs that things are not right? Going to such a remote area, a low price, the money must be given to a third party, there are no facilities in a building; these are all examples used in the explanatory memorandum. If we do need to tackle this gap, is Mr Van Oosten still to be persuaded?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u119	I am a long way from convincing you about parts of this bill. That's what I'm trying to tell you. That's what we're looking at on that set-up variant. That design variant is quite wide. In this I follow the Council of State. This includes the conditional set-up. The Council of State says that the prostitute, the customer, consciously accepts the significant side that the prostitute is a victim. In the amendment tabled by Mr Berndsen and I, we write that all kinds of circumstances can be considered. I have just heard Mrs Helder say in her speech, regardless of what she will decide on the substance of this bill, which you can think about the location and all kinds of circumstances. However, I do not want a reasonable suspicion alone to be enough to bring about criminal prosecution. This is a legal business. There are people, customers, who want to use sexual services of prostitutes. You have to make sure that such a law goes to the other side, to criminalize the client. There are cases where it is simply clear that there is a victimisation of trafficking in human beings. So that includes the conditional set-up. I think that you should dare to compliment colleagues on that point, and that is what I am doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u120	I agree that conditional design offers more possibilities than the objective. That's clear. However, you do end up in a twilight zone of all kinds of situations why it is actually happening in practice. I just mentioned an example. Then you're on parole, too, and you have to wonder if it's possible to place it there. With the debt variant, you can just say that it's obvious that someone could and should have known.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u121	That is true, but that brings us to the legal certainty and provideability of the customer. I have a problem with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u122	Mr Van Oosten began with a number of questions to the initiators. He asked them to clarify the circumstances in which there was reasonable suspicion. That seemed like a clarification of the bill. But then we also got the amendment. Mr Van Oosten has already come to his conclusion. Is he still open to further preparation, justification, the reasonable suspicion of the initiators or does it not matter anymore?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u123	If there is a legal procedure in the Lower House, it is always good to ask all those questions about the bill. Everything we say here becomes part of the history of law. Then it is also relevant to ask questions about the debt variant, regardless of my amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u124	So there's still room. A further justification could make a difference. In my opinion, the initiators have already well substantiated it. There are many examples in the legislative proposal and in the explanatory memorandum. Several examples are used. So what is Mr Van Oost's doubts? When does he think there can be no reasonable presumption? In the examples mentioned above, it seems clear to me that there are people who are in the grip of human traffickers. Think bruises, garage boxes, etcetera. Is that not sufficient evidence for Mr Van Oosten to speak of reasonable suspicion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u125	I'm not saying you have to draw a line on purpose for nothing. That includes the conditional set-up. That's the way it's been made out in the case law. Whether there is a conditional intent is ultimately judged by the judge. That can be the case if you accept the significant side, given the circumstances, that there is a victimisation of trafficking in human beings. That is something other than that you should have had a reasonable suspicion that there might be. That can also be much easier to blame, with all the consequences of that. That's my point. We have to be careful with that. There are people who use the services of prostitutes. They can, too, because in this country it is a legal sector. You have to deal with excrement, but you have to be able to use a legal sector. Customers should not be criminalised. I think that the point of the debt variant is too far-reaching.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u126	It's all technical, of course. We are laying down a law here, so it is right to stay very close to the letter of the law. I very much appreciate that Mr Van Oosten is doing this as a competent lawyer, and I am happy to work with him in another field as closely as possible. With this approach and approach, however, does Mr Van Oosten not miss out on what the practice has already shown? Last year's quickscan of the criminal responsibilities of the prostitute in trafficking in human beings and minors of the University of Groningen shows that there are insufficient opportunities in current practice to tackle those who actually cooperate in matters such as rape and exploitation of people with criminal law. That will not change much if this amendment is adopted and the legislative proposal is amended accordingly. Is Mr Van Oosten not ignoring this practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u127	I'm a little repeating. If you're talking about intent, with all the gradations that go with it, I think you should dare do this. I'll mark that very firmly. However, I also receive letters from the field, from practice or whatever you want to call it. I'm getting letters from PROUD, the interest association of sex workers. I'm also being sent information from STOP AIDS NOW! Mrs Van Tongeren also said this: 'Rutgers'. I'm not really closing my eyes to that. I'd like to give them a place, too. These organizations say: watch what you do now, because this can lead to criminalisation of the customer and even to a worse position of prostitutes. I have a few more questions that I would like an answer to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u128	In my view, Mr Van Oosten is making exactly the same mistake as Mrs Van Tongeren in her contribution. In fact, he confuses the defence of the rights of prostitutes with that of prostitutes; in that respect, we can shake hands with the rights of the prostitute who uses a voluntary prostitute, defending the rights of victims of trafficking in human beings and punishing those who maintain exploitation, even more so, who use it when they could reasonably have known that they were doing so. I'm a bit disappointed with the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u129	I dispute the latter. I will not repeat what I have already said, but I think my amendment has value. Following suggestions made by the Council of State in this respect, the amendment states that you are in the process of setting standards and that the law clearly shows what society thinks. In addition, the amendment on the conditional set-up provides guidance to investigative bodies and so on to get to work, while preventing the case from going to the other side. I think that is a balanced balance. Mrs Gesthuizen may disagree, but this is the way I look at this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u130	Mr Oskam may interrupt Mr Van Oosten for the second time, but I would ask him to do so very compactly. Can he be a paragon of compactness?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u131	I will. I'll be very brief. I will try not to drink pure coffee with Mr Van Oosten once more. Let me give you an example. A man comes to a woman and that woman speaks only Polish and cannot identify herself. Then is it okay or isn't it okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u132	There you go. That's exactly the problem. So I think you should set the limit on the design variant, where deliberate action has been the motive of the customer. Of course, we can guess all kinds of situations. There may be a prostitute who does not speak Dutch, which makes it difficult to communicate, but should you then be suspected that there may be trafficking in human beings? I don't know. However, the bill does make it possible for you to be made a criminal offence. That's exactly the point I have a problem with. Indeed, that customer uses a legal business in this country, some may have a different moral opinion on it, but may then be called against by the police or the Public Prosecutor's Office for being a criminal offence. Then we can say: yes, it is not going to happen that fast. Well, I don't know, because it's in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u133	We can ask the customers to be alert. Mr Van Oosten only takes out the language, but I said clearly: that woman only speaks Polish and that man asks for an ID, but he does not get to see it. From that, you could conclude that someone had to turn in his or her passport. Then there is an exploitation situation. Then you must feel on your clogs that there is no pure coffee. Apparently, Mr Van Oosten doesn't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u134	Mr. Oskam says someone doesn't want to show his or her passport. I don't know if everyone just wants to show their passport. Even so, is that supposed to prove that suspicion? I'm talking about the design variant. It's wide. I think the D.A. can handle parts of that. It gives an anchor in the law, which according to the initiators is now insufficient. I'll follow the initiators in that. But have a bit of an eye for the other side, for the customer who uses a legal service! I don't think you should want to criminalize it unnecessarily.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u135	I give Mr Van Laar an opportunity to make a second interruption to Mr Van Oosten. Compact, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u136	Mr Van Oosten is constantly talking about a legal sector and a legal sector. This evokes the image of controls, security and hygiene, but a large part of the sector is not legal at all, is not authorised and is illegal. That's where customers take significant risks. They should be aware of that. I wonder whether Mr Van Oosten deliberately does not make that distinction or whether he does not see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u137	I'm having trouble with this question. That presupposes everything I did not want to put into my contribution. What I am trying to do is to draw attention to the design variant, that part of the initiators' bill that appeals to me as well. It appeals to me that customers who deliberately abuse victims should be dealt with, including that conditional scheme. But we know in this country the possibility of prostitution, we know in this country the possibility that you may take services from it, we know in this country the possibility that women or men may act as prostitutes. Mr Van Laar assumes that I close my eyes to everything else, but he pretends that everything in prostitution is synonymous with trafficking in human beings. That is the definition that Mrs Berndsen just made. That is not true either. That's what I'm calling attention to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u138	I would ask Mr van Oosten to continue his speech if he remembers exactly where he went.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u139	Let me take a look, because I have already made the necessary remarks along the way of the interruptions which I would otherwise have liked to make in my contribution. I have already explained some things about predictability and legal certainty. I also have questions about enforcement. Would the initiators like to elaborate on this? What's actually expected? What is expected of a enforcer, how is checked? How do the colleagues see that? I would then like to draw attention to the reactions of, among others, PROUD, the Aids Fund and Rutgers. I would find it interesting to hear from the initiators to what extent their own initiative law is also supported by the profession itself. In a response from PROUD, the sex workers' association of interests, I read very strong criticism of the proposal. The law is considered stigmatizing and ineffective. It would seriously affect the legal, social and employment position of sex workers, of prostitutes. How do the initiators react to this? To what extent has the sex worker actually been involved in the reflection and drafting of this bill? If that is not the case, why didn't it happen and what space do initiators see to organise it anyway? I would also like to receive a response from the initiators to PROUD's statement that Amnesty International would have recently considered that (partly) criminalisation of customers could lead to sex workers taking more risk to protect their customers from police, which could in turn make them more vulnerable to violence and exploitation. The Aids Fund and Rutgers have also expressed rather strong criticism of this bill. Undoubtedly, the initiators have taken note of this. However, it is not just criticism; recommendations have also been made. I now turn to the Minister. One of those recommendations is to report crime anonymously. I also mention campaigns that raise awareness and indicate that suspicions of trafficking in human beings can be reported anonymously. Earlier campaigns would have been very effective. In fact, at least that is what is to be read in that document. The number of reports on coercion and exploitation would have increased by 121%. Many reports led to police investigations. How do the initiators view this? What scope does the Minister see for stepping up such a campaign? What could be the cost of this? That brings me to the last topic I wanted to deal with, namely finance. The initiators expect that the legislative proposal will have little financial impact. In addition, they consider that it would be appropriate to protect the additional financial effort that could be made. I would like to receive a response from the Minister. Does he share the analysis that the financial effects are small? Apart from the expected financial impact, can they be met within the budget? Let me look in my text to see if I have forgotten a crucial element of what I would have liked to contribute, but I do not think so. Otherwise, I'm gonna have to save it for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u140	Mr. Chairman. I'm making the proposers my mean compliments. Not for half their work, but for their whole work. I think that in 2011 I spoke for the last time about prostitution in the House of Representatives, namely when dealing with today's bill on the regulation of prostitution and the fight against abuses in the sex sector. The co-submission of this bill is in line with the SP position that was welcomed at the time. It is another step forward in dealing with trafficking in human beings and the protection of victims. Of course, sex workers want prostitution to be seen as a normal profession. That is a legitimate demand, at least as far as my group is concerned, also because this is a way to reduce the number of abuses. If you are able to start as a prostitute for yourself, independently of others, just as a zzp'er, so to speak, you can for example take out a loan. You can also get a mortgage because you have fixed income. You can insure yourself against incapacity for work. This normalizes the situation and that is good for the health and independence of the prostitutes. That makes them less vulnerable to those who would want to exploit them. At the same time, there is no denying that there are abuses. Trafficking in human beings is the worst of them. I have already said it a few times today: a victim of human trafficking is not a prostitute, because a prostitute does his or her work of his or her own free will and if it is right also with the necessary pleasure and conviction. I can very well imagine that for a large number of prostitutes this is the real course of action. We are not talking about prostitutes tonight, but about those who are not prostitutes at all, but are forced to have sex with third parties against their will. I very much appreciate the work of the proposers. They have examined how we can improve our legislation in this area, in order to better combat trafficking in human beings and exploitation. My group believes that it is only normal that services in the economy should generally be taken into account in accordance with the usual standards and values. In the explanatory statement and in the reply, the authors have provided a number of examples of undesirable situations, which in my view are caused by undesirable behaviour. Immense behavior that actually amounts to looking away and ignoring the abuse of another human being or even knowingly cooperating in the rape of another human being. In my view, the law is a good thing. I do have a few questions for the proposers. Why would the visitor of a prostitute go to the police if that is what he or she wants to do in the eyes of the prostitute? How do the proposers know that reporting will increase? Isn't it getting smaller? Can the initiators elaborate on the experience of implementing organisations in this area? The D.A.'s office has been mentioned here a few times. It also wrote us a good letter. For example, what experiences have the police made in prosecuting the customers of people who are forced to have sex with third parties? Others have already asked. What are the bottlenecks and why does this law solve these problems? That brings me immediately to the need. I read that the Dutch court has also found that there is a need to criminalise customers who, despite clear signs of exploitation, use the services of forced prostitutes, although I prefer not to call them that. Can the initiators tell us more about this? Do I understand correctly that there are already situations in which the Public Prosecutor's Office and judges indicate that they would have wanted to prosecute a prostitute, but that this was not possible because of the current law? Which organisations and researchers have already spoken out in favour of criminalising this? It has also been said a number of times today that the sex workers are concerned. They fear that customers will be prosecuted and may therefore stay away, or that they will have to operate continuously under the supervision of the police and the judiciary. I have an eye for these cares. At the same time, I believe that neither we nor the sex workers should look away from the fact that there are abuses in the sector. This evening we are also talking about solidarity with the victims, not just about the rights of prostitutes and prostitutes. I am curious to hear what the authors have to say about Mr Oskam's amendment. I believe that I have already made it clear in various interruptions how I view Mr Van Oosten's and Mrs Berndsen's amendments. It seems to me to be an almost destructive amendment. What's really going to change? I would be sorry if this amendment were to be part of this law. Of course, ordinary prostitutes and their regular visitors do not have to fear interference from the police, but I am a bit disappointed that the opportunity is not being seized to do anything against those who look away from unimaginable suffering that is being done to others. For my group, therefore, it is 100% clear that we will not support that amendment. However, I look forward to a further exchange of views with colleagues and I hope that the proposers here in the House of Representatives will be able to convince a number of people who still have doubts about the way in which the law is now written. I wish the authors every success in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u141	Mr. Chairman. The Labour Party wishes to congratulate and congratulate the authors of this initiative law and their supporters on their initiative. Making a law yourself is perhaps the best work a Member of Parliament can do. In any case, it is the most time-consuming work. I would therefore like to wish the proposers a great deal of strength with the follow-up, because that is still a lot of work, no matter how far they will come, I would almost say. The Labour Party should not be called a surprise, given the composition of the proposers. Misdemeanors of victims of trafficking in human beings must be dealt with under criminal law. On that basis, the Labour Party agrees. The results chosen by the proposers of this starting point are compact and precise. It has thus become a very manageable law in the eyes of the Labour Party. The authors have given detailed reasons for their proposal and excellent answers to all the questions put by the Labour Party. However, we have a number of points. I would like to start with an example of which I would like to clarify these points. A 17-year-old girl from Amersfoort is being exploited by her boyfriend. She is forced by him to have sex with other men who pay him for it. Night by night, he drives her to customers. One night, she confides in a client. She tells him her story; she tells how old she is, that she does not do this voluntarily, and that she should give the money to her friend. The man decides not to have sex with her and sends her back. A few hours later, he changes his mind and still has sex with the girl. This is a true case. Both the pimp and the customer have been convicted of the aforementioned facts. The Labour Party considers it particularly important that the initiators have paid attention to the minor victims of trafficking in human beings. We believe that the extra heavy punishment that abusers of under-age victims can get for trafficking in human beings is right. However, there has been a debate on how the new Article 237g (2) relates to the existing Article 248b in the Criminal Code. The Labour Party considers that clients of minor prostitutes should be prosecuted as much as possible under Article 248b and that the additional penalty currently introduced by the applicants for the abusers of minor victims of trafficking in human beings should be supplemented, where appropriate. Is this also the view of the proposers? How does the Minister see this? The Labour Party also likes to receive the view of the proposers on the aspect of coercion in relation to minors. Does the proposers consider that an abuser can still be convicted on the basis of Article 273g (2), even if there is no evidence of all the elements of Article 273f 1.1? This is because coercion is not a necessary element to prove trafficking in human beings involving minors. In other words, I ask the proposers, without coercion, is there still trafficking in human beings among minors who are exploited? We would also like to receive the Minister's view on this. The two clients of the 17-year-old girl were given one and two days in prison, which they had already served in remand. This while four years in prison is possible. Even the client who knew the girl was underage and also worked under duress only got two days in jail. Similar penalties have been imposed in the vice case in Valkenburg, as in other cases. The prosecution is also concerned about the low penalties for clients of underage prostitutes, according to National Trafficking Officer Warner ten Kate. Do the proposers fear that their law will be applied by judges in the same way? How is it possible to prevent judges from giving abusers of victims of human trafficking one day in prison for abusing a victim of trafficking in human beings? We ask the Minister to set out the possibilities for the prosecution and the judiciary to understand the legislator's wish in this regard. After all, we see low penalties in many human trafficking offences. How can this trend be reversed? The Labour Party, as has been said, is concerned about the low penalties, but at least penalties have been imposed. What if the girl had been 18 years old? Then the customers, the abusers of a girl who has sex under duress, couldn't have gotten any punishment. That is precisely what the authors want to change with this law, and that is why the Labour Party is positive about this initiative.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u142	With so much inciting about low penalties, I wonder why the Labour Party is against minimum penalties for serious crimes of violence and violence.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u143	It's up to the judge to impose a sentence. It is not up to us to make a weighting at this point. However, we must distinguish between individual cases in which the judge decides to impose one day's imprisonment and a structural pattern. If there is a structural pattern that deviates from the wishes of the legislator, there is a tension between them. We can address them, and that is what we are doing here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u144	There's this tension. The National Rapporteur on Trafficking in Human Beings has also noted this tension. Her latest report says that the penalties for trafficking in human beings are going down, whereas in 2013 politicians said they should go up. So that signal's there. If we want to be serious, and if we want human traffickers and perpetrators of serious violence and sexual crimes to be punished, then we, as legislators, use our power to adopt a law, with the bandwidth in the courts still in place, so that individual cases can be weighed, but in any case there is a lower limit for the courts determined by the legislator in a democratic process.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u145	So your question is: does Mr Van Laar share this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u146	In a way, that minimum sentence is also there. After all, a prison sentence must be imposed. That's why one day is imposed. It's up to the judge to determine how long that sentence is. It is precisely in individual cases that this derogation may be necessary and should be possible. By introducing minimum punishments, you introduce a new injustice or a possible injustice. You shouldn't, but you can address the issue and we will.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u147	Mr Van Laar continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u148	I also want a second interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u149	Once you allow that... it's a slippery slope. Mrs. Helder, you may make your next interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u150	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I can be of service to you, because I'm not making full use of it. I come to the conclusion that the PvdA is clearly satisfied with one day.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u151	No, no. Of course, we're not fooling around. Mr Van Laar continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u152	In the Caribbean Netherlands, the perpetrators had already gone free. There, having sex for payment is only punishable by girls under the age of 16 instead of under the age of 18, as is the case in the European Netherlands. There are differences between the Code of Criminal Law of the Netherlands and that of the BES islands that we cannot properly explain. Article 286f of the Code of Criminal Law for the BES and Article 273f of the Dutch Code of Criminal Law differ in three main respects. The applicants replied to our questions that the first five years after the BES islands joined the Netherlands we should be reluctant to further amend laws. However, these five years expired last week. Is it not appropriate, then, to eliminate the most obvious differences between the European and Caribbean Netherlands with this initiative law? Or is the Minister perhaps prepared to do so? In any case, the Labour Party is thinking of eliminating three important differences. In the Caribbean Netherlands, minority is defined as 16 years and not 18 years, as in the European Netherlands. This provision would therefore not have made the clients of that 17-year-old girl criminal. Moreover, in the European Netherlands, people who abuse their vulnerable position are treated as minors and are therefore also punishable by the law of abuse. The question is whether we should not make that even. The Dutch Code of Criminal Law also refers to the use of violence as an aggravating ground, as well as committing it with multiple persons and a minor victim. The latter two are the same, but we do not see the use of violence as an aggravating ground in the Caribbean Netherlands. Isn't it an option to even that out? On the contrary, the BES introduces an extra aggravating punishment of eighteen years for facts that carry both aggravating grounds and in the Netherlands we do not see that provision. The Labour Party likes to hear from the proposers and the Minister whether they want to eliminate these differences and, if not, why not. A number of people have spoken about the legal sector or the licensed sector. I think that is where she comes in. What does a prostitute's client in the licensed sector have to fear from this law? When can a client in the licensed sector still be called upon to a reasonable presumption etc.? I think the authors need to clarify that. If the initiative law is adopted, the clients of 17- and 18-year-old girls, of boys, of men and of women who are victims of trafficking in human beings can be treated harder. The law allows the D.A. to demand more appropriate penalties and judges to impose them. The PvdA hopes that they will seize that opportunity once this good law has been passed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u153	This brings us to the end of the first term of office. Thank you all for your input, your interest, your commitment and your support. The follow-up to this debate, in the form of the first term by the initiators, will take place at a time to be specified.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u154	In view of the time when I am allowed to close this sitting, I wish you all a relaxing evening, a blessed night's sleep and a good recess.
