ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-2.u1	Mr. Chairman. It's another message that a conductor has been abused. It goes on and on. The number of incidents on the train, in public transport, has been spreading for years. And for years now, my party, the PVV, has been asking for much more enforcement and powers. Also this Easter weekend there have been three more serious incidents in public transport. It's not about nothing, it's about threats to death, about threats to knives, about serious abuse. Every day there are new incidents on the train. The traveller is also in grave danger. I'm asking the Secretary of State four questions. Why is this cabinet so hesitant and lax in taking the necessary measures? What kind of people do this? What kind of perps are they? Does the Secretary of State have an unsub profile? Describe what kind of people these are. I can't imagine you just punching a conductor in the face or spitting on him. What lines is it on? Are there certain risky lines? Why doesn't the Secretary of State make the list of incidents public? Is the Secretary of State prepared to implement the PVV list of security measures to ensure at last the safety of staff and passengers in public transport?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. I suggest first that it is terrible that violence has once again been used against people who perform a public task. I have already said it in some stronger terms, and I will now use the word 'unacceptable', because that is what it is. It is simply unacceptable that people who perform a public task should be harassed, aggressively approached, beaten up. It is not just about train staff and bus staff, but also about ambulance staff, police officers, etc. It can only be said that we regard this as social disruption and as unacceptable. Mr Madlener asks a number of questions. Among other things, he asks me when I'm finally gonna do something. 11 March last, we took the first steps with the Minister for Security and Justice, with NS and ProRail, with the trade unions and with a delegation of staff. Everyone has stepped into their own roles and has said what they can contribute from their role. On behalf of the Ministry of I and M, I have undertaken to bring forward the closure of stations. At 20 stations there will be extra police, which is called station police. ProRail is putting camera capabilities into view. We have said that we are going to put together a package of measures to ensure that safety is much better safeguarded. In November we will see where we stand. Now these incidents have come through. Mr Madlener is asking me for an unsub profile, but I find that complicated. I'm not a minister or secretary of state for security and justice. The police and the state's attorney's office are drawing up perpetrator profiles, but I'd be happy to pass on this question. Mr Madlener also asked what the risk lines are. At the stations where this is most common and where there are the greatest risks, there will be station police. NS has the picture of the highest risk lines and where most incidents occur, so that very targeted measures can be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-2.u3	This attitude is typical. After every incident something happens again, it seems with a lot of reluctance, but of course it is far too little and far too late. The three incidents this weekend are not new. For years, this kind of incident has happened every week. They're getting the paper now, but we all know this has been going on for years. That is why I have been asking for measures for years. I will mention the measures we have been on our list for many years and cannot count on a majority in the Chamber and certainly not on the approval of the governmental parties. There are always two conductors on a train. Not alone, just the two of us through that train. And visible: when you're on the train, you want to see the conductors. When I'm on the train, I almost don't see the conductor and I hear from others that they do too. I want to see them, and there must be two of them, because together you're stronger. A system must also be set up to enable passengers to access help quickly. If you feel uncomfortable or find that things are going wrong on the train, you must of course be able to call for help in a good way, for example by means of a text message service. Besides, the railroad police have to go back. It was always there, but it was abolished by this cabinet. The railroad police have to go back, in large numbers. That's what it takes. In addition, the chance of getting caught must be 100%. If you do anything on the train, the police will have to pick you up at the next station. That's possible, because if there are short lines with the police, they can just wait for the killer at the next stop and pick him up. It's not that difficult, but it has to be arranged, and this Secretary of State doesn't. The Secretary of State says she's not the Minister of Security and Justice. However, we have had these incidents for many years, so I expect a little more from the Secretary of State who deals with safety, including social security, on trains. The gates must also be closed, of course, so that black drivers can no longer get on the train. NS security personnel should be given a baton and pepper spray. That's what the union's asking for right now; it shouldn't get any crazier. Camera surveillance should also be provided in trains and on platforms, as well as an O.V. ban on offenders and higher prison sentences. This is the PVV list I've been putting in here for years. However, I haven't been able to get it done for years. I hope that the time is right now and that we can finally get support, including from the government parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-2.u4	I'm a little surprised. If I were Mr Madlener, I would say that the cabinet is doing exactly what I want. After all, we are already looking for a conductor to join. As far as rapid assistance is concerned, I have already said that I think an SMS service is a good initiative. We need to look at that. As far as camera surveillance is concerned, ProRail is already mapping where additional cameras can be placed and is already very advanced. The gates must be closed, says Mr Madlener. Well, he never heard me say anything else, I guess. We are also already working on the point that perpetrators should be arrested at the next station. It is important for everyone, from their own strength, to ensure that we actually implement the concept of social and physical security. This applies to Justice, Home Affairs, Infrastructure and Environment, the trade unions, NS, ProRail and the other carriers. I can only conclude, after Mr Madlener's speech, that he thinks that we are doing very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-2.u5	The Secretary of State thinks she's doing an excellent job, but the facts point in a different direction. There have been three more incidents. So I don't understand how the Secretary of State can say that we're doing an excellent job right now. Of course we're not doing very well. The perpetrators of the serious assault weren't even arrested. They just walked out of the station! Then how can you say you're doing well? This is exactly the attitude I'm talking about. The Secretary of State must take security seriously and not claim, after many incidents of violence, that she is doing well. That's not true. I hear a lot of words, but I don't see any actions. I'll hand over my list to the Secretary of State through the chairman. Then she can see if she finally wants to run this good list.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-2.u6	I'm glad I'm back on the table tomorrow with the unions, NS, ProRail and Security and Justice. That's important. I started by saying that it cannot be that people who perform a public task are approached in this way in their work, that they are beaten up or whatever. That's unacceptable. I'm committed to it. We are going to work on all the measures I have just read. As far as I am concerned, it is never enough and we will have to be ready for this every day to ensure that the workers are able to do their job properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-2.u7	According to the SP too, it is terrible what happened to the staff of the Railways. This should never have happened, because you have to keep your paws off NS personnel and other staff on the track.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-2.u8	"With your hands," you mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-2.u9	With your hands, too, Mr. Chairman. As far as we are concerned, the railway police should not have been cut off and there should have been just two conductors on the train. My question to the Secretary of State is what is true of the image that many of the people who cause nuisance have a ggz background. Is the Secretary of State prepared to link this point to the cabinet policy that has resulted in a third of the beds in ggz institutions being cut off?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-2.u10	That is a fair question, which I have already answered in my letter. I said that the Ministry of the Interior is looking at how this is developing and what facts can be brought up to show whether or not there is a causal link. That information will also come to the Chamber, as I have already promised.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-2.u11	We have all been shocked by all the incidents that have occurred. That is why it is quite right that we should have a debate here on what we can do to improve the safety of staff and passengers. One of the points raised in this area is that the police could also be used preventively, as was the case in the Arriva pilot. You know on which routes there are many problems. How's the Secretary of State going with that? The safety of travellers, especially of staff, really needs to be improved.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-2.u12	That too is a fair question. We have also discussed this in an earlier debate. It is very important that carriers exchange their experiences in the regions and in different forms of transport. One of the examples is the way Arriva works with the police. Next week I have a meeting with the other carriers; that was already planned. This is precisely the kind of example that comes up in these consultations. It can only be that we put together everything possible to ensure that we do the best we can to combat this violence. The question of the SP Group is relevant: if you see what the causes are, you could do more preventively.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-2.u13	In the general consultation Spoor we have already indicated that we support the Secretary of State in her hard line in this matter. She's used harsh, but right words. I am working hard on the list that Mr Madlener mentioned. I think it is a good thing that the Secretary of State consults with the carriers, but the question is whether there is a deadline. When can we expect the results? We see that something comes up every weekend, but at least there is one too many. What does the Secretary of State, possibly ours, need to speed this up?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-2.u14	As I said, I have a meeting tomorrow with the unions, NS and ProRail, which was already planned following the investigation. Next week I'll be speaking to the other carriers as well. I will also speak to my colleague from the Justice Department. We have indicated that within four weeks we hope to have maps where we want extra cameras. That will be clear next week or the next week. I maintain a high pace, because as Mr Van Helvert said, there are a lot of incidents that follow each other in different places in the country. The palette must be clear before the summer. I have already made a follow-up meeting with the trade unions, NS, ProRail and the various ministries before 2 November to discuss the impact of the measures we have taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-2.u15	This is a persistent problem. I think the whole Chamber agrees that something must be done. A number of measures are being taken. The PvdA Group invites the Secretary of State to speed things up. One aspect remains underexplored today. How is it taken care of the people who have been attacked and who have been injured? Because they really are victims. To what extent do they have a duty to report what has happened to them, even in the event of less serious incidents? It starts with reporting, because this is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-2.u16	I can only agree with that. An important observation is that violence is becoming increasingly aggressive. The question is whether "just" spitting and verbal violence are still reported and whether there is no shift. It is important that everything is reported. These reports are made to the railway companies themselves. It is also important that it is used as easily as possible, because spitting is not normal and screaming at each other is not normal. We see incidents where gross physical violence or even weapons such as knives are used, but it starts with the minor verbal violence that a conductor or paramedic is confronted with. You can't do that. NS is putting this in the picture. For me, it is important that this happens as easily as possible and that everyone feels the freedom and space to report it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-2.u17	I stand here as a fence shutter, but the VVD is of course for a tough approach to aggression on the train. We are pleased that the Secretary of State also makes this very clear, because we all think that this is important. Is the Secretary of State prepared to look tomorrow, when she talks to the carriers, at the proposals that were reviewed this weekend, including pepper spray, batons and the like, for the special investigators?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-2.u18	The moment we talk about arms, we are a very big step forward. Actually, I'd find it kind of a tricky step to arm people and drop a baton and pepper spray in that category. I think it is important that this is looked at in particular from the point of view of security and justice. Originally, Security and Justice would not be present at tomorrow's meeting. I will invite them, however, because this issue will also be discussed. However, I do try to leave police powers and weapons to those who know about them, who know what is and is not wise in doing so and what might be a reaction to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-2.u19	Thank you for your answers and thanks for coming to the Chamber, Secretary of State.
