ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-4.u1	Mr. Chairman. Occasionally you read messages in the newspaper that you think can't be true. That was the case last weekend with the message in Trouw with the headline "Bizar dilemma for the elderly." Let me briefly outline the situation. Older people who have recently moved from a nursing home to their own home now run the risk of having to move again in the short term. Only in this way will they be entitled to a complete package of care. If seniors want to maintain the current level of care, they must return to the nursing home. That is exactly the opposite of the policy the cabinet wants. It concerns a group of people who have already been in uncertainty in recent years. Because of this cabinet policy, a number of them had to move. That's very incriminating for a lot of people. Now that there's finally clarity, the twitching starts again. I can assure you that it is not pleasant to have to move again when you have passed the 80 or even 90. It would involve 2,000 people, says Trouw. I have the following questions to the Secretary of State. Is it true that about 2,000 elderly people, who have returned to their homes with a full package, will no longer receive care from 1 January 2015? I can't believe it, but Faith leaves several experts to speak. Is it true that older people are being asked for the choice: either you move back to a nursing home or you will soon be dependent on the municipality and your health insurance provider for your care, with the result that they lose the full package of care? Does the Secretary of State agree with me that this situation is really at odds with policy and that older people should not be the victims of incoherent policies? Healthcare offices are already hearing that some of the elderly are going to cash in on their right to live in a nursing home because they fear that they will not be able to do so later. Meanwhile, more and more nursing homes are virtually empty. How does the Secretary of State feel about this and does he not fear a huge increase in the registrations for almost empty nursing homes? Is the Secretary of State prepared to retain the full package at home for these people so that they do not again face uncertainty and the possibility of having to move again?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. I remember that during the debate on the Long-Term Care Act, but also on the other laws, we paid a great deal of attention to this group. After all, we wanted this group of people, although they had the right to stay in an institution, to choose to stay at home because that was still the case. It is important that we pay that attention. We want to respect people's freedom of choice as much as possible, and that is why we paid so much attention to this group at the time. In dealing with the law, we said at the time: we are going to take care of two things for these people. First of all, people with a low care-gravity package have the right of transition as is the case for everyone. They may complete their indication until 1 January 2016. Secondly, we are granting an additional facility. An amendment to that effect has been accepted by Parliament. It stipulates that these people, who now have the right to stay in an institution when it is no longer at home, keep that right. If people choose to stay at home, they will receive care under the Wmo and Health Insurance Act, but they hold the right to go to an institution. This has been settled by amendment and has been supported by all parties in the Chamber. I also saw Mr Krol raise his hand at the time. I am therefore surprised that he is now saying that things should be different. After all, we are carrying out exactly what the House's amendment meant at the time. People who live at home now can just keep doing that. They will receive care at home, as will many people who now receive care at home from the Wmo, the Health Insurance Act or a combination of it. For these people, the additional facility is that, if they wish to later exercise their right to stay in an institution, they can do so. There is no further need for new indications. They can simply exercise that right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-4.u3	I understand the Secretary of State very well, but now, in fact, people are being messed with. People want to keep their care and can not receive it at home at some point, when they decide to go back to the nursing home. These are people who are often over 70 or over 80. They really feel that as a rifle-and-rifle. I'd really like to know from the Secretary of State what he's going to say to those people. I also really advocate peace and clarity for these people. In my view, the whole policy as it stands is incoherent.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-4.u4	That would be strange, because we are now introducing what the Chamber itself has asked for. I believe that there was one abstention in favour of the amendment which specifically regulates that people can stay at home if they want to, that they have a transitional right, that they can get care under the Wmo and the Health Insurance Act so that they can stay at home, and that they have the right to say: it is no longer at home; I want to go to an institution now. This seems to me to be an extra facility for this group, to which we have paid so much attention, which we have also granted and which, once again, the whole Chamber has voted for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-4.u5	Again, I understand it very well, but can the Secretary of State assure me that the people who would really prefer to stay at home will not be cut off on their care package but will continue to receive a full package, so that they do not feel obliged to move back to a nursing home as is happening now according to Trouw? We both think that's important, because a lot of people like to live at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-4.u6	These people deliberately chose to stay at home at the time, although they had access to a nursing home. They chose it. They can still do that, and care for them will therefore have to be arranged, with support through the Wmo and support through the Health Insurance Act. In fact, the amendment adopted unanimously by the Chamber also states that a municipality cannot say: you have an indication of the Long-Term Care Act, so we do not have to care. The amendment also regulates that. That means that people can just get the care that suits them under the Health Insurance Act and the Wmo. If people don't think that is enough later and still want to go to a nursing home, that can be done. That care may be redesigned, and hopefully more focused on the personal situation in accordance with the Health Insurance Act and the Wmo, but that does not mean that people cannot stay at home. In fact, that's what they're about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-4.u7	Mrs Leijten, a supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-4.u8	It's a bizarre dilemma for these elderly people. Either they have to go to the nursing home, where they just left, or they stay home without home care. The Secretary of State can say here by decree that they do care, but municipalities simply shorten because they also get 40% discount from this Secretary of State. How is the Secretary of State going to ensure that these people can stay at home? Is he going to ensure that municipalities use care or is he just going to ask them?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-4.u9	We have adopted together in this Chamber a number of laws regulating support for people in the home situation according to the Wmo and the Health Insurance Act. Those apply to everyone, including these people. These people only have an additional right, namely the right to redeem the right they had at the moment that suits them. That concern will have to be settled in accordance with the laws that we have passed. The municipality will have to provide appropriate facilities in accordance with the Wmo, and the Health Insurance Act gives the right to, for example, district nurse care where this is at issue. That applies to everyone; so does these people. And these people also have an extra right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-4.u10	Mrs. Ger...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-4.u11	That wasn't my question. It would be good if the Secretary of State would just answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-4.u12	Mrs. Gerbrands, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-4.u13	The problem is that people do not get the care they are entitled to; not the Health Insurance Act and not the Wmo. That's point one. The second problem, of course, is that these people feel compelled to go to an institution anyway. Which institutions can these people go to?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-4.u14	We have passed laws that regulate care and support at home and regulate the right to care under the Health Insurance Act. Let us not say to each other in advance: that will not go well. I don't think that's a good idea. We have now arranged for everyone who is in the home situation to receive care under the Wmo or the Health Insurance Act. These people have an extra right: if they think it's no longer possible, they can continue to cash in their old rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-4.u15	And where? That was the second part of the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-4.u16	With the institution they then choose. This does not mean that all the institutions suddenly disappear? The situation is no different than before.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-4.u17	Older people are worried. There are all kinds of court proceedings about not getting household care anymore. I've just been talking to some of the employees of a major care facility in Brabant. They indicate that 15% to 20% of personal care is reduced at home. So I understand that people are worried. The Secretary of State says that it is not all that bad and that they can sit in an in-house institution within a year if they so wish.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-4.u18	Your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-4.u19	How manyzzp 3 spots have been purchased for this year and next year? Do I know that, then we can estimate whether what the Secretary of State says actually works the same way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-4.u20	As Mrs Keijzer knows, care offices have a duty of care, so for those who are entitled to a place in an institution such care will have to be purchased. The same applies to people who still choose to redeem their rights. In fact, I think that a lot of people have chosen to stay in the home, but we are going to follow that very closely. In the new situation it will be, but well, these people can opt for a nursing home if it doesn't work anymore. Then there is the duty of care offices, as is the duty of all those who are entitled to a place in an institution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-4.u21	Would you like to ask your second question from Question Time on behalf of the CDA?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-4.u22	If you're not gonna see to it that the Secretary of State responds, you're gonna have to. I asked the simple question how many places were bought for 2015 and for 2016. I get the general story, but I already know how it works. I just want to know the numbers, because then I can estimate whether the Secretary of State's statement is true that people who are worried and want to live intramurally can actually do that. I imagine the Secretary of State isn't ready for those numbers. Let him just say that, but who will send the Chamber as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-4.u23	If Mrs Keijzer specifically wants to know how many nursing and care places in Category 3 have been purchased for this year, I can say that there are about 15,000.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-4.u24	Thank you for your answers and thanks for coming to the Chamber.
