ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-eerstekamer-10.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State to the First Chamber. The first-term speaking time for the interpretant is set at a maximum of five minutes and in second-term speaking time for the interpretant and possibly intermediary speakers at a maximum of two minutes. I also inform the Chamber that it is customary not to interrupt the interpretant in its first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-eerstekamer-10.u2	Mr. Chairman. With steam and boiling water, the dairy law was passed by this house before 1 January: an empty framework law with the promise to come up with an AMvB for further details; an unusual procedure, but accepted under pressure of the loss of derogation. However, the planned deadline for the AMvB for the dairy law of 1 March was not met. This causes great uncertainty about the impact on the sector, animal welfare and the environment. The Secretary of State knows that both in this house and across the street, a majority of people are deeply concerned about the unhindered groundless growth that this law has allowed. It is aware of these parties' concerns about their disastrous effects on animal welfare, the environment and the landscape, because the cows are rapidly disappearing from pasture and the dairy sector is becoming increasingly industrial livestock farming. The Secretary of State promised an AMvB to regulate the land-boundness of the dairy sector by law. That AMvB would enter into force on 1 April, because milk quotas would then lapse. Today, however, on 17 March, the AMvB is still not there. The Secretary of State is not even able to outline a timetable when the AMvB would be there. As soon as possible, but after the election. There's only one thing that's clear. The coalition does not agree on the future of dairy farming. It is quite possible that this political disagreement would endanger the whole sector. The lack of measures to curb the unbridled growth of dairy farming, which is already taking place, brings the phosphate ceiling quickly into sight. The derogation, the right of dairy farmers to drive out more manure and thereby pollute more than their colleagues in other countries, is thus at risk. It is at least remarkable that this divided coalition is willing to risk the future of the entire dairy farming because of the political difference of opinion between the VVD and the PvdA. I have a number of specific questions for the Secretary of State. I would ask her finally to come up with the specific answers which it contains and which were not included in the exchange of letters between the Chamber and the Cabinet. How come you have not only failed to complete the AMvB before 1 March 2015, but have not even been consulted with the sector and civil society organisations? Can you make it clear clearly what caused this delay and what the consequences will be, when large players in the sector use the space created to realise unbridled groundless growth plans? You indicate that you will be able to consult with the relevant sector and civil society organisations on the implementation of the AMvB in the very short term. Can it be seen from this that the enlargements that concern the sector will not be covered by the General Measure? I would like to have more clarity about the timetable, also in conjunction with what you wrote in your last letter, namely that if the AMvB does not enter into force on 1 April, the year will not be lost. You indicate that on any date that the AMvB could enter into force, the year could be lost or there could be significant consequences, so please clarify this. When do you expect the AMvB to enter into force? How many companies are expected to have grown groundless or have entered into financial commitments for enlargement? What measures have been taken to prevent proliferation? In your letter you note that until the General Measure of Management is in force, non-ground-based expansion can simply take place, and thus the production of phosphate should only be justified without the additional determination of ground-boundity. In the meantime, how will you prevent phosphate production from exceeding the permitted ceiling? Are you prepared to publish in the Official Journal your intentions on land-related issues, as previously happened in the context of the reintroduction of partitioning? This makes it clear that dairy farmers who proceed to unbridled expansion act with knowledge of the cabinet's intention to restrict them so that they cannot derive any rights from it. Until when does the provision apply to economic operators who entered into financial commitments before they knew of any additional provisions? Does this provision apply until the entry into force of the AMvB? Are you prepared to say that no similar provision will be made for companies which, in the present era, are still lacking but are foreseen to expand?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-eerstekamer-10.u3	Thank you very much, Mr Koffeman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-eerstekamer-10.u4	Mr. Chairman. I thank Mr Koffeman for the questions he has asked. Three months ago, the Act on responsible growth of dairy farming was indeed dealt with and adopted in this Chamber. The law is therefore on 1 January last. in force. I would like to thank your Chamber once again for that, because it has secured your Chamber's derogation. As a result, the dairy sector has not experienced any major problems, which would otherwise have been the case. Dairy farmers who expand their production must therefore meet the conditions required to ensure that this extension takes place within the environmental boundary conditions laid down in the Nitrates Directive. In the view of the Nitrates Directive, this means that the growth in dairy farming should not be unbridled, but should be justified. However, as Mr Koffeman has proved right in the House of Representatives during the treatment of the law in this Chamber and the House of Representatives, there are broader ambitions for a sustainable future of dairy farming. Part of your Chamber and of the House of Representatives has said that it is not just a question of solving the environmental problem, but also a social vision for the future of the sector. This includes ground-boundness and grazing. These are two issues which are inextricably linked to this issue. It is my ambition and, moreover, the ambition of the sector to maintain and strengthen the land-based nature of dairy farming for the future. That is why completely groundless growth in dairy farming is an undesirable development, as Mr Koffeman has just emphasised in his contribution. For this reason, I am now preparing an AMvB to ensure that enlargement in dairy farming will take place at least in part. The AMvB is such that further limitations on the possibility offered by the law to process additional phosphate as a whole via the manure processing route are then technically combined. As I said during the debate on the law in this Chamber, there is no question of the ambition to promote ground-boundness as far as I am concerned. The question is which system you choose, how that system works out and what effects it has. I would have liked to have said that this was an obligation to do so. On 1 March, I offered that AMvB to the Chamber. However, I have reported this to the Chamber in writing and I need a few weeks more time. This has to do with the fact that this AMvB must not only be achieved quickly. This must also be done carefully, because it imposes restrictions on entrepreneurs. This deserves careful consideration, for example as to what effect it has on the price of land. It does not only affect the price of the land for dairy farmers. The question is also what it does for arable crops, for example. Those are all side effects that you have to consider. That careful consideration is the answer to Mr Koffeman's first question. I will, as I have informed the Chamber in writing, at a very short-term administrative level with the parties concerned in the sector that are LTO Netherlands, NZO, NajK and NMV, and the social organisation Stichting Natuur & Milieu discuss the implementation of the AMvB before it goes to the Chamber. Mr Koffeman then asked whether 2015 was not a lost year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-eerstekamer-10.u5	Of course, there is a great deal of understanding for that kind of care. We are also held here in the Chamber to ensure careful treatment. We have chosen to do so before 1 January, at the request of the Secretary of State. What has she done between 1 January and now, 17 March? She is still not in conversation with all those parties, and that is curious. That's what my question is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-eerstekamer-10.u6	Doesn't mean I haven't done anything in the meantime. That's something that happens internally. For example, we have looked at reports from the LEI. Of course, CLM (Foundation Centre for Agriculture and the Environment) has also brought out some of the different models that you could choose. We have also looked at what effects it could have, what we can say in advance and what we can not. Sometimes it's very difficult. You can't always predict the choices at individual company level. We have tried to identify the current situation with regard to phosphate surplus on individual farms. It is also clear from the fact that this is perhaps also good for the imaging that almost half, perhaps a little more, of dairy farmers at the present time have no phosphate surplus at all. So there is still sufficient ground within which growth can take place. Before it is said that it is going to go all wrong and there is going to be a huge growth explosion, it is important to collect all that kind of data. That's what we do. As soon as I feel that I can go to the organisations with a balanced proposal, I will do so immediately, without delay. Then, of course, I will make a proposal to this Chamber and also to the House of Representatives. I also understand the urgency, so there's really no discussion between us about that. It might be good to explain, I understand Mr. Koffeman's concern about what it means for the year 2015. Is that, in his terms, a lost year? That is not the case. The scope of the AMvB also looks at the year 2015. That is Mr Koffeman's second question. That also has to do with the system of the law. In fact, the law requires that the amount of phosphate produced for each dairy farm is determined annually. Dairy farmers account for their phosphate production at the end of each year. This means that the expansion of phosphate production that is now being achieved is not excluded from the obligations imposed in the AMvB. A dairy farmer growing in 2015 should therefore partially compensate for the increase in his phosphate production after the entry into force of the AMvB with additional land. That is the consequence of that. The image that would suddenly be created by the absence of the AMvB for, in the words of Mr Koffeman, the big players and that this would allow unbridled growth, is therefore not justified. After all, the scope of the AMvB sees, as I promised, also on 2015. Mr Koffeman then asked about the timetable for the entry into force of the AMvB. The law is clear about that. It provides for the procedure for the entry into force of the AMvB. This means that after the Council of Ministers has decided on the completion of the AMvB, which is to be held before both Chambers of the States-General for at least a period of four weeks. Following the agreement of both chambers, the AMvB will be proposed to the King for the opinion of the Advisory Section of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-eerstekamer-10.u7	I would like to focus on this point. Suppose the AMvB starts on October 1st of this year. Does that mean that farmers will have to compensate in the last quarter for all they have produced in the previous three quarters above the standard in the AMvB?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-eerstekamer-10.u8	In any case, the legal system does not provide for accountability until the end of the year. You always count all year anyway. That is why the date 1 October or 1 April is not so relevant. It is much more important that people should know in the end that this year will also count within the scope of the AMvB. That is why it is good if everyone becomes aware of the expected rules of the game as soon as possible. It is always the same as I have just outlined: it is being put forward and then it goes for advice to the Council of State. Mr Koffeman just suggested that we could have achieved an entry into force on 1 April with a veil before 1 March. That would never have been the case in the first place, and that has never been said.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-eerstekamer-10.u9	It's clear to me what the law says. My question concerns the AMvB, which must be a tightening-up of what is in the law. I asked about the moment when that tightening up at AMvB was arranged. If, for example, that is 1 October, does this tightening apply throughout the year?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-eerstekamer-10.u10	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-eerstekamer-10.u11	Suppose someone now decides to expand, even though he knows that he does not have enough land to dispose of all the extra manure and he decides to come up with something else. When the AMvB enters into force, will the person be paid for according to the standard as stated in the AMvB? Is it perhaps said for the whole year that he has produced far too much manure and that that is a problem? I would also like to ask what then is the sanction that follows. What is the meaning of the intervention that the Secretary of State can still do at the end of the year?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-eerstekamer-10.u12	The scope of the AMvB covers the whole year. We discussed this with each other in the debate on the law before 2014. We have a different approach. At that time, not every dairy farmer who was going to expand could already know that part of that expansion had to be accounted for in land. I'll tell you what that means in a minute. Now people know there's a ground requirement. So that means that you run the risk, to put it so firmly, that if you expand and you only do that in manure processing, you will still have to buy land. This risk lies in the fact that the Chamber has agreed with me that this must indeed be part of the way in which growth is justified. I would ask Mrs Vos to ask her second question again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-eerstekamer-10.u13	It fits in a little with what the Secretary of State just said. Suppose someone thought: I'm guessing, I'm gonna grow well though I don't have enough land and I can see where the ship is stranded. So how's the Secretary of State gonna take care of that person? She just said he'd have to buy extra land. Suppose that doesn't work and he just has too much manure and too little soil. What's she gonna do? Does she count all year? In fact, it has produced far too much manure all year round.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-eerstekamer-10.u14	The system of the law always sees the whole year. There is no other way to do that, because that is the result of the legal system. If someone does not comply with the law, then he or she is in violation. In this way, this law, which is already in force, is much more direct, I would almost say, than the whole milk quota system. Then you can, so to speak, pay a fine and then you can overproduce. Now, within the current law and certainly with the AMvB in the process, you have to make sure that you partially process your phosphate through manure or partly through soil. That is, of course, a much stronger system, also because you then break the law when you do not meet, than when you pay a fine because you milk too much above your quota.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-eerstekamer-10.u15	Mrs. Fox, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-eerstekamer-10.u16	But what does this violation mean? Then what sanction does it say you're breaking the law? Is that another financial penalty? What sanctions do you have in mind?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-eerstekamer-10.u17	I have no sanctions in mind; this results from the system of the law itself, which is controlled by the NVWA. But I will also say something about this in reply to Mr Koffeman's questions. We also note that the law entered into force just three months ago. It is already being suggested that there would be fraud, but that is reflected in previous reports. I'm gonna go into that in detail. The fine in the Fertiliserswet (Manures Act) I didn't have that answer ready, I say but honestly.... is €11 per kilo of phosphate that cannot be accounted for. But that's a matter of huge sums of money, because a violation often doesn't involve a few kilos. Those are tough sanctions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-eerstekamer-10.u18	We are now threatening to recreate part of the debate before Christmas. The Secretary of State said quite quickly: the farmer has to buy land. We then had a discussion about what exactly is grounded. Land is land, too. What are the deadlines for this? But buying land exchange or grass from a neighbor with a nice contract in which you seized that land for that year was also unclear. The farmer cannot yet know exactly what is covered by the basic definition. In that sense, he can therefore unexpectedly be confronted with retroactive force in the AMvB.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-eerstekamer-10.u19	No, that's not exactly true, because in the law itself, there's just the definition of land. It's spacious, but you have to have a legal title. It can be rent, but also ownership or rent, for example. But then you have to have the legal title on the ground. In that sense, that definition of land is already in the law itself. On the question of how we can then continue to promote regional cycles in this system, there is a great deal of interest for this, and I would like to come back to the AMvB.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-eerstekamer-10.u20	Still something about that AMvB, which is not there at the moment and which is not quite clear when it will be there. The date of 1 October is already mentioned. I understand that if this AMvB is announced, it will have effect retroactively until 1 January of this year. That seems to me to all those entrepreneurs who, until the AMvB comes out, do not know what they are up to, a rather curious matter. How can people take account of measures that they cannot yet know?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-eerstekamer-10.u21	By the way, the date you have just mentioned has not been mentioned by me, but by one of your colleagues. To my knowledge, that was an example. Again: the law system always watches for reckoning at the end of a year. That's true now. Nothing is changed, not even by the AMvB itself. You are absolutely right that the sooner people know what is going on, the better it is. That is also the effort I am making. In reply to Mr Koffeman's questions, I indicated exactly what is happening with the technique surrounding the AMvB. I was stuck with the story that, following the agreement of this Chamber, assumed that there would be no interruption, which could still be done, but what would, of course, extend the time limit considerably. There will be advice from the Council of State, after which I will be able to make the standards known. The premature publication of the proposed standards was compared with the compartmentalisation of the latter with no added value in this case. We publish an AMvB, but it is up to the Chamber to decide if that is also the right AMvB. So there is still a democratic process of justice to be overcome. This whole period assumes that both Chambers agree. If one fifth of the number of members in one of the two chambers determines that the subject matter of the AMvB should be regulated by law, then a legislative proposal should be made and then put into procedure. That goes first to the House of Representatives and then it comes naturally here. But it is clear that in the end it will take much longer before there is definitive certainty. That is a choice of substance. This Chamber has expressed a preference for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-eerstekamer-10.u22	I wonder how the Secretary of State sees the impact of such a blocking minority on the groundless growth of livestock farming. Or she also says: well, then the AMvB may come into effect later or it will be regulated by law, but don't worry, because in any case we already covered that groundless growth in that empty dairy law. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-eerstekamer-10.u23	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, If you came across the AMvB with some of your friends, you would have nothing in your hands on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-eerstekamer-10.u24	It was not so much that I was planning to stop that law, the sooner that law is there, the better it is for me, but I understand that a number of groups that think differently might be able to break that law. What does it mean that a minority in parliament could be able to stop the AMvB? Does this mean that the groundless growth can go on unbridled?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-eerstekamer-10.u25	Yes, but not unbridled, because we do not agree on the meaning of the law as it has already entered into force. It also monitors growth within environmental standards. But the extra desire to grow soil bound, of course, depends on the entry into force of the AMvB. That is, moreover, a democratic principle, because both chambers have established it by law. The First Chamber has accepted that the House of Representatives has introduced an amendment to the law on this subject, which has made it possible for an AMvB to be prevented because it is not a matter of the law. Yeah, that's an instrument in the hands of this Chamber, a precious instrument that, if anyone decides to use it, means we end up with nothing. That is why I would like to say: before you begin.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-eerstekamer-10.u26	Finally, Mr Koffeman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-eerstekamer-10.u27	The observation that we end up with nothing seems to me to be a euphemism. Then we end up with a huge excess of phosphate and manure, because then that can just go on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-eerstekamer-10.u28	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The effect of the law is precisely to allow dairy farmers to account for phosphate production and the way in which they process it. It's already taken care of. A majority of the Chamber voted to ensure that. Despite your group's vote against, that is in any case settled. Mr Koffeman asked a question about the phosphate production ceiling. He asked to what extent we can prevent that from being exceeded. It's technical, but I'm trying to explain. It's about two different things. On the basis of the derogation decision, we have to adhere to a maximum amount of phosphate to be produced. The tricky thing is that the ceiling covers the entire livestock sector. That is not just dairy farming, by the way. If the ceiling is exceeded, the Netherlands no longer fulfils the conditions of derogation. In addition, it is not relevant whether it is done through soil binding or through manure treatment. DG ENV doesn't care about that, as it were. People want us to fix it. The law currently in force is absolutely sufficient. If the phosphate ceiling is exceeded, animal rights for dairy cows will have to be introduced. Based on the ex-ante evaluations of both PBL and LEI, we can expect that the Netherlands will not exceed the ceiling. In this sense, the conditions for this are in the hands of the sector itself, which is also reflected in studies by LEI and PBL that the sector is working seriously on the transport track. The idea of PBL is that by 2020 you can generate 20% more milk production with a 9% increase in the number of animals. This has to do with the efficient way in which production is carried out in the Netherlands. Moreover, this is also a political debate with you, as I say to Mr Koffeman. Mr Koffeman's fifth question concerns a provision for entrepreneurs who have entered into financial commitments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-eerstekamer-10.u29	As far as the consequences for the sector are concerned, I understand that it will have consequences for the sector if we all shoot through the ceiling. Then the sector has a problem. However, what is happening about this has not yet come to light, not in the debate we had before Christmas and not even in this debate when a number of major entrepreneurs set up a cowmunity? Huge dairy farms, mega stables are currently emerging at a rapid pace. What does that mean for a small dairy farmer who has an agricultural family farm? He has to establish: there are a number of cowboys, literally, who have all made sure that they have filled in their space, and now we all have to settle something because the derogation is falling. Isn't it strange that such a situation can arise? A number of big boys cause wild growth and a small agricultural family farm is the victim of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-eerstekamer-10.u30	Again, there is no growth. In the end, all growth will always have to be accounted for. This requires investment from the individual entrepreneur, either in land or in manure processing. Both aren't free. So there's no wild growth in advance. Indeed, the debate is about ground-boundness and, in part, about the distribution of growth. I understand you saying that. An AMvB can make an additional contribution in this respect. That's why we're getting to work with each other right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-eerstekamer-10.u31	I understand. I do not hear the Secretary of State contradicting that it might be that a number of large industrial companies set up cowmunities, use a huge part of the possibilities for themselves, and then give the small family farms a look.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-eerstekamer-10.u32	It sounds a lot simpler than it is. It's a theory that can't be put into practice that easily. After all, you have to meet all kinds of conditions in order to grow. We have conditions in the field of manure processing and also in the field of land. We're working on that. Whoever grows has to finance that growth, literally. Frankly, that is unique in Europe. I can tell you, Mrs Vos, that colleagues from North Rhine-Westphalia and Lower Saxony, the Grüne Land Ministers, have asked me to translate the current law that you adopted on 1 January last into German, because they find it very interesting. They don't know it. You must imagine that we in the Netherlands are unique in the sense that, once the quotas have been abolished, we will immediately have an instrument with which, as it were, we will accompany growth and not leave it unbridled. The other European countries do not know that as we know it. It's just what perspective you're looking at.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-eerstekamer-10.u33	I believe that we have to, and in the Netherlands we have a somewhat bigger problem than elsewhere. Can you guarantee us that we will not exceed the phosphate ceiling? Can you see that coming, that's my question. What's the risk if it happens? Do you expect Europe to intervene immediately and say thank you, the Netherlands, away with your derogation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-eerstekamer-10.u34	Sure, that last one, but I can't guarantee that first one. We can see it coming. For this reason, it is also very important that everyone, every player, takes responsibility. One of the possibilities to see phosphate growth fall back is the feed trail: that which does not enter the animal does not come out either. That transport trail has proved to be very effective in the past. I hope it will be in the future, too. The current current developments look at the milk price, which is somewhat less flourishing than it was a while ago.Of course, it also has an inhibiting effect on growth. If you ask me if I can guarantee that we will never go through the phosphate ceiling, my answer is: no, I can't. I can only guarantee that I will intervene when that happens, if only because the derogation must be retained. I can promise you that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-eerstekamer-10.u35	So you're saying, before things go wrong, I'm gonna take action. So it won't come to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-eerstekamer-10.u36	Let me put it this way: if we can see it coming, we will have to do it. We're gonna have a tough discussion. This means, as I have just outlined, that we must get an instrument, literally, of which we have seen in the pig and chicken sectors that it does not necessarily provide a positive incentive, namely dairy rights. With this you have the distribution between the entrepreneurs who gets what part of the growth that is possible in the Netherlands? Not regulated at all in advance. The investments that are being made are not necessarily made; the farmers say that they themselves are also responsible for the sustainability of the stables, for example, but for the purchase of rights. Anyone who applauds the system of animal rights, some parties do that sometimes lack their effects, in my opinion. It would be much better if it didn't come to that. We need to talk to the sector together. It can only be that this is a collective responsibility. My impression is that they really want to take it, and I am very pleased with that. I would like to answer Mr Koffeman's question on the provision made for entrepreneurs who have entered into financial commitments. During the treatment of the Act responsible growth dairy farming, we indicated that we would meet dairy farmers who have made financial commitments to process the increase in phosphate as a whole, before they could know that further conditions would be laid down to prevent soilless growth. This would of course be part of the AMvB. However, this is only about entrepreneurs who actually entered into a financial commitment when they could not know it yet. So if you make such commitments today, then you know that you also have to do with land. So you don't fall within the scheme. I do not know whether Mr Koffeman has asked the question about the registration of stables today. He did send it to us in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-eerstekamer-10.u37	I didn't put it orally today, but I'm curious. It is an instrument in the limited tools you have to see how we can monitor it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-eerstekamer-10.u38	Since it is added to the Acts, I actually feel uncomfortable to give the answer now. The stable registration is done because in 2015 we register stalls for the PAS, the Programmatic Approach Nitrogen, in the combined data collection by RVO. For monitoring compliance with the Fertilisers Act, recorded data on land, animals, manure transports, feed, start and end stocks, manure storage capacity, derogation, phosphate differentiation, nitrogen differentiation and phosphate settlement shall be used. For the control of the Fertilisers Act, therefore, this register has no added value. That is the answer to Mr Koffeman's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-eerstekamer-10.u39	Thank you. Then we have now reached the second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-eerstekamer-10.u40	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for her reply. In particular, she made it clear that we are dealing with a rather complex situation. That complex situation makes it hard to have the confidence that it's gonna be okay. I think this has something to do with the fact that, if you assume a collective responsibility to business, you should always consider that business is amoral, so you have no moral judgment. A company simply has an obligation to do what it thinks is right for its own business. That also makes sense, but it means that, in my opinion, there is a heavy responsibility on the part of the government to actually steer that responsibility. In this sense, I also found Mr Vos' question interesting: what are the sanctions of the Secretary of State and what will she do if it goes wrong? The Secretary of State says no, I can't give guarantees, but I'll take action before things go wrong. That also sounds like a guarantee and that is of course very difficult. This still does not make it clear how we are going to prevent, for example, a distortion between entrepreneurs who are now sticking their necks out, rightly or wrongly, by setting up a huge cowmunity, and entrepreneurs who are still looking out of the tree. It is then not clear how that will work out. What we do know is that it is said that by 2020 the cows will be delivering 20% more milk, but it will not be 20% more cows. So that means we're burning the cows even faster than we are now. A cow can easily grow 15 or 20 years old in nature. In the Netherlands, cows don't grow more than 4 years old on average, because we literally burn them up. We're the only mammal species that lets themselves suckle by another species. It's very strange, actually. So if we let the cows produce even more, we'll ask more of them, while we're actually asking too much of them, namely: we'll take your calves away and we'll use your milk.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-eerstekamer-10.u41	Are you thinking about your time, Mr. Koffeman?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-eerstekamer-10.u42	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I will conclude with a motion which, more than the Secretary of State has now promised, guarantees that ground-based growth will be monitored. The President shall: Mr Koffeman, Mr Vos, Mr De Lange and Mr Nagel proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the broad shared desire to maintain the land-based nature of dairy farming;]] [[Considering that the promised General Measure of Governance to provide this ground-basedness has been delayed and will not be in force as of 1 April 2015, when milk quotas expire;]] [[calls on the Government to take concrete measures to prevent landless growth of dairy farming between 1 April 2015 and the entry into force of the General Measure,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33979-M]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-eerstekamer-10.u43	Could Mr Koffeman give a more detailed explanation of what he means by these measures, especially if they are mandatory in nature, but without a legal basis and without the basis of the general measure? How does he imagine that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-eerstekamer-10.u44	Thanks for the question. I deliberately formulated the motion in such a broad way that the Secretary of State has all the freedom to make the commitment she has made, namely: we do not want non-ground-based growth, so wild growth, and we will monitor it. I would like that monitoring to be explained by the Secretary of State and further guaranteed. In the motion for a resolution, therefore, I would ask the Secretary of State: are you prepared to take measures between 1 April and the entry into force of the General Measure of Management in such a way as to prevent anything we do not want, so the shooting through the phosphate ceiling and the continuation of non-ground-based growth? If these measures could not be taken, we would be at the mercy of the sector. The Secretary of State says: it is not like that. So I want to be more clear about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-eerstekamer-10.u45	It is not about the objective of the motion; I understand that. But what if I advised my group to be in favour of the motion? I would like to know in an approximate manner what measures Mr Koffeman has in mind, especially if these are measures which, very concretely, would have to oblige farmers to have land ownership or purchase land before the AMvB imposes the obligation to do so. How does Mr Koffeman imagine that? Then what are the powers of the Secretary of State to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-eerstekamer-10.u46	The Secretary of State has made it clear to us that she has these instruments at her disposal. She also said: if we shoot through the phosphate ceiling, I will take action. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State through the motion what measures she is going to take. So it is not for me to say: I want you to take these measures. I ask the Cabinet to explain to us what measures it is going to take to prevent it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-eerstekamer-10.u47	I am also a little stunned, because in fact the Secretary of State simply gets the authoritarian green light: do whatever, we are done. However, it is important that these are measures which fall within the legal framework.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-eerstekamer-10.u48	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-eerstekamer-10.u49	So what's the problem? The only thing we're talking about here is ground-boundity. It's on top of the mandatory manure treatment. It's all taken care of. In short, we have already legally secured the shooting through the phosphate ceiling. What exactly does Mr Koffeman want on top of that so that he can go home satisfied?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-eerstekamer-10.u50	I want there to be no growth in non-ground growth, because it has been pronounced in the Lower House and the Upper House. In the meantime, this has become possible in the absence of the AMvB. I would like to know from the Secretary of State, who has spoken reassuring words to us, that is not going to happen with which instruments she is going to ensure that this does not happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-eerstekamer-10.u51	I've never seen anything so vague in this house: go ahead, we're fine with it. 'Cause that's basically what it's all about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-eerstekamer-10.u52	No, it's definitely not vague. It is widely formulated, and that is to say that in this motion the Secretary of State will be given every opportunity to choose an instrument, but of course it will be taken into account. At the end of the year, it will be clear whether there has been a high rate of growth without ground-boundness or not. We have asked the Secretary of State if she is prepared to take measures to prevent this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-eerstekamer-10.u53	Does one of the other Members still wish to speak in the second term? That's the case. I see Mrs Vos, Mr Reuten, Mr De Lange and Mr Holdijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-eerstekamer-10.u54	Mr. Chairman. My group too has great concerns and amazement at the absence of the AMvB so far. That is what we have talked about. We consider it very important to secure a number of things, and we believe that there is now too much uncertainty. Like Mr Koffeman, we note that there are indeed worrying trends in dairy farming, such as scaling up, less land-boundness, growth of the manure surplus and fewer cows in the pasture. I was recently at a symposium of the Dutch Dairy Organisation, on which it was even welcomed if people knowingly exceeded the milk quota, because then you were a good entrepreneur. In short, I am not entirely reassured that everything is going well by itself. Each day of uncertainty due to the absence of the General Measure of Management gives the possibility to expand and keep more cows without any ground. That is what the Second and the First Chamber absolutely do not want. We have made that clear before. I would like the Secretary of State's firm guarantee that the expansion of every dairy farmer who grows heavily, without sufficient additional land, as will soon be regulated in the AMvB, will in any case be reversed, so that the conditions of the AMvB are met and that there is no claim whatsoever to compensation or whatever. As far as the phosphate ceiling is concerned, this is difficult because it is a collective responsibility of everyone who wants to have the firm guarantee that this will not be exceeded and that the Secretary of State will at all times intervene prematurely so that it does not come to that. Nor is it appropriate for the little ones to bleed for the big ones who may now have the money to expand very heavily. I also want the hard guarantee that the rail transport track, which did not work sufficiently in 2013, will also work and that the Secretary of State will otherwise introduce legal measures in that context, so that it will work.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-eerstekamer-10.u55	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for her first term. She has made it clear or made it clear. pledges that the AMvB will set an annual limit, including for 2015. If, hypothetically, the AMvB starts on 1 October, the farmer may have to compensate for the annual limit in three months. I have three further questions. Does the Secretary of State consider that the matter will stand before the court if the farmer refers to the court in the short term, in view of the fact that it will then go to the end of the year? Has the Secretary of State informed the sector sufficiently about what we exchanged in the first term and what I just indicated? Has it therefore sufficiently informed the sector about the scope of the AMvB that is coming? In any case, I would also like a firm commitment on the date on which the AMvB is presented. Then there's another side question. It's all going a little slower than we thought in December. Does the Secretary of State have enough official staff?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-eerstekamer-10.u56	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for her first-term comments. I would like to return to the procedure in which, before the end of the year, at the last minute, very strongly asked for urgent treatment by the First Chamber. The First Chamber has weighed that up and finally went along with it because of the interests that seemed to be at stake. In my opinion, this is now in a somewhat stark contrast to what was shown by the government as a matter of urgency afterwards. It was promised that an AMvB would come on March 1st, but there is no AMvB. Consultations with the parties concerned have not even been concluded. There has been a call for care. Now no one who is sensible can be against care but what I have not heard at the same time is a date on which that AMvB arrives, so that the parliament can give an orderly ruling on it. That is a very specific question. When's the AMvB coming in? If I had to sum up briefly, I would say that it is rather inconsistent to ask the First Chamber to be hasty but at least to give the impression that it is almost self-absorbed in no way. In any case, that is what my group feels somewhat misled about. I would like to hear the Secretary of State's explanation on this because that does not seem to me to be the way to deal with the Upper House.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-eerstekamer-10.u57	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for her first-term contribution. For my part, I would merely like to make a kind of marginal comment, without it leading to further questions. My group, too, has wholeheartedly supported and continues to support the law of 1 January. We should not debate the content of an AMvB that has not yet been put forward. Of course there is that temptation, including for me, but I'm trying to resist that temptation. Nevertheless, we are having a serious debate. However, I have never been so concerned by the fact that the AMvB was not put forward before 1 March or in March. I remember a letter, one of the first of the Secretary of State, dated 11 December last year, in which she ended by saying: 'I expect to be able to preside over the AMvB which contains the legal effect in three to four months'. The fact that the AMvB would not enter into force on 1 April never raised any questions, especially where we find that the AMvB will have retroactive effect. This does not mean that we should not rush or be careful, but given that it is even conceivable that one of the Chambers would like this matter to be regulated by law, we should be calm and not get so excited about the fact that the AMvB was not before 1 April, let alone before 1 March. That is what I meant as a peripheral point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-eerstekamer-10.u58	I call the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-eerstekamer-10.u59	Mr. Chairman. For my part, a few comments on the process. I thank Senator Holdijk for his comments. I recognize those remarks. I think we have always talked about it in this way. I've always said it was my endeavor and I'd do my best. This is now being translated by some speakers if there was a hard guarantee, but I have always been clear from the start, also on paper. However, it is of great importance to all those involved in this respect, in my view, Mr De Lange's remarks are also very well understood that we are quick to clarify. In the letter, having regard to the dates, I also indicated that I was hoping to get it to the Chamber as soon as possible. I shall begin with Mr Koffeman's remarks. It is indeed a complex situation. That's exactly what I'm up against. The sector has a collective responsibility. It's stuck in the system. Perhaps one day, in a distant future, the circular hand will gain strength in such a way that you can see the contributions of farmers on an individual level. We're not there yet. Even with the system of animal rights which Mr Koffeman's party strongly supported in the past, there has been the distortion of all kinds of negative comments. Animal rights are also no guarantee that a certain form of scaling-up will not be possible in the meantime. Then the verdict on the motion. I really need to dissuade the motion. I have tried to make it clear in the debate that the best way to do what Mr Koffeman asks is to extend the scope of the AMvB for the year 2015. That gives us a legal basis. I say to Mr Reuten that we are shaping the AMvB in such a way as to maintain that legal basis. That's important. That is really something other than taking a measure taken out of the sky. Even if you want to introduce animal rights, you have to do so through an orderly legal system. You can't just put something today on hold tomorrow. Mrs Vos may ask me for a firm guarantee, but she must do so with me. I can't do that alone. It's all being put on my plate now. I thank Members for their confidence. I can't do it alone. That's why we really need each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-eerstekamer-10.u60	It is touching that the Secretary of State says that we are dealing with a collective responsibility and that we are simply not yet further on. It is also a collective responsibility that we do not drive too fast. However, it is a good thing that every now and then along the highways we see who drives far too fast and who does not. You cannot say at the end of the year: on average 20% of motorists have been speeding up, but we cannot help it. Something like this is outlined in relation to the expansion of dairy farming. In concrete terms, the Secretary of State says that it has no instruments to prevent groundless growth.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-eerstekamer-10.u61	I'm not saying that. You're talking about two different things. On the one hand, there is the question of how to prevent the phosphate production ceiling from being exceeded nationally. On the other hand, there is the question of how to prevent groundless growth. The first is not to be prevented by this law, nor by an AMvB. That is the responsibility of the sector. If that is to happen, we must introduce animal rights. I didn't make a secret of that. I've said that since I stepped in. There are a lot of good reasons not to want that. I'd love to say that. Groundless growth is not possible at the moment when the AMvB has an outreach spanning 2015. That gives you your instrument.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-eerstekamer-10.u62	You can grow groundless as long as you process the manure. You don't have to have land, do you?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-eerstekamer-10.u63	I've been working on my entire first term and I'm now in my second term explaining to you that the AMvB that lays down further conditions on the extent to which you are allowed to process manure gets an outreach that extends throughout the year 2015.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-eerstekamer-10.u64	The Secretary of State said to me: you ask me for guarantees, but I cannot give them to you, because that is what I need you for. It has my support on this issue, and I believe that Mr Koffeman's. That's the tricky point. I keep hearing the Secretary of State say it's gonna be okay. I keep tasting from her words that everything's gonna be okay. I would like to appeal to her that the phosphate ceiling will certainly be fine. We need to know now that this is not being exceeded. I want to hear from the Secretary of State that this is not going to happen. It must intervene in advance at all times so that it does not happen. That's what I'm asking her to do. She has me on her side when she needs new legislation. If animal rights are to be introduced, she will find me at her side. But it is up to the Secretary of State to ensure that the phosphate ceiling is not exceeded.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-eerstekamer-10.u65	This is separate from the discussion of whether growth will not be achieved by land. You really need to pull that apart. I understand you want to intertwine that, but the one doesn't necessarily have anything to do with the other. If the phosphate ceiling is exceeded, there is too much manure on the Dutch market that is not processed, either by land or by manure processing. If the entire livestock sector exceeds that ceiling, we have a major problem. Animal rights are already there for the pig sector and for the poultry sector. The only other option is the introduction of animal rights if the reference year is earlier than the time when it is exceeded. From the moment I arrived, I said: if I have to, I will, but please let us not let it get that far. We don't want that, do we? The sector doesn't want it either. If I have to, I have to. At the end of the year we may see that the ceiling is being exceeded. If we do not want to intervene on our own, I have said that I will. Brussels will force us to intervene. One possibility is that we will lose a derogation. I am still grateful to Mr De Lange for helping to get that law passed on 1 January. That will at least prevent it from happening for now. We will have to prevent that from happening again. That brings with it a trajectory. I have to put forward a proposal for this, and democratic control must do so. It is then up to the Chamber to consider whether it accepts all the consequences of exceeding that ceiling. I don't want to shove it off, but I'll tell you how it works. That's how it goes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-eerstekamer-10.u66	The Secretary of State keeps saying that the sector is collectively responsible. Agreements have been made and those involved know that they must ensure that a number of ceilings are not exceeded, because then there is a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-eerstekamer-10.u67	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-eerstekamer-10.u68	The point is that non-ground-based growth creates uncertainty. Apart from the fact that I find that undesirable, the manure treatment has still not been realized. That's a big problem. There's a lot of uncertainty about the feed trail. Is that gonna work? For this reason, I would like legal guarantees to be put in place to ensure that we never exceed that ceiling. In my view, that really is the responsibility of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-eerstekamer-10.u69	As far as we can make legal guarantees, they are already there. What we can do has already been dealt with on 1 January. Then there is a social reason that the problem of phosphate growth is not only solved by manure processing, but also, in part, by soil binding. In itself, the legal system that we have introduced at the level of the individual dairy farmer has ensured that the phosphate problem has to be solved. That's the part of the story we've arranged. In the past, we have been able to reduce the system of collective responsibility to an individual responsibility, and perhaps we will not be able to do so in the future. For that, you should give the circular guide some kind of legal basis, but we are not yet there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-eerstekamer-10.u70	The Secretary of State refers in her last letter and also in her first term to part of the growth of land. That is what the substantive political disagreement with the AMvB is about. May I ask whether her reason to discourage the motion is that it says in the operative part "to prevent groundless growth"? Is that the jumping point why the Secretary of State is dissuading the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-eerstekamer-10.u71	No, that's the whole operative part. I have to do something now while I am working on an AMvB that has an scope for the year 2015. Mr De Graaf has perfectly illustrated why this is really unwise in the questions he asked Mr Koffeman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-eerstekamer-10.u72	So the point is not to prevent groundless growth?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-eerstekamer-10.u73	No, because that is what we are working on ourselves with the support of all of you, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-eerstekamer-10.u74	You have dissuaded Mr Koffeman's motion. Suppose, for you, it would be adopted. Can you imagine measures at all? Can you think of any measures that you could take without AMvB?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-eerstekamer-10.u75	No, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-eerstekamer-10.u76	That's a clear answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-eerstekamer-10.u77	I'll continue with the answer...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-eerstekamer-10.u78	If the Secretary of State can't imagine any measures, it literally means God's water over God's field. Then it is a matter of: we have to wait and see what happens, but I cannot intervene. Or do I misunderstand her?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-eerstekamer-10.u79	I'm ready to intervene now. I stand here all the time saying nothing but that your assumption that there would be unbridled growth is simply not true. It doesn't add up from January 1st this year and it's going to be a lot more wrong when the AMvB gets on top of it. Then you have an extra topic to meet as a dairy farmer. It's just not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-eerstekamer-10.u80	I'll help the Secretary of State hope so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-eerstekamer-10.u81	Mr. Schaap?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-eerstekamer-10.u82	I just want to say that if you know nothing of your own, it is easy to accuse the Secretary of State that she is without any good suggestions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-eerstekamer-10.u83	Before I come to the remaining questions from Mr Reuten, I would like to say a few words about the railroad. Mrs Vos is also asking for a firm guarantee on this. It's really up to the sector to realize that feed trail. They have a very great interest in it. At a time when they are handling this efficiently, it offers opportunities for growth which, as it were, does not lead to problems with the law or with the AMvB. It is a very good measure to stay below the phosphate ceiling. I think we should do what we can to encourage this together. However, I cannot guarantee that, because I cannot, of course, influence management at individual level at these companies. We can tell you. I certainly agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-eerstekamer-10.u84	Mrs. Fox, a very brief little interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-eerstekamer-10.u85	In 2013 the bar was of course disappointed. Isn't it conceivable that you're putting more pressure on it by means of regulations? You have given a number of reasons why it was disappointing. Isn't there any way of ensuring that things are going well from now on?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-eerstekamer-10.u86	No, that's really difficult, because the reasons why it was disappointing were partly also related to weather conditions. We have not yet come up with a law for this in this country. It is a matter of management, but there were also problems with the supply of certain forms of feed that have an impact on it. It is not just a matter of enforcing laws and regulations. It's an innovation, though. Experience has shown that regulation is not necessarily the way forward. I very much agree with your emphasis on this; so do I. It's an important way to stay below the ceiling. I am very grateful to you for putting it so robustly. That is what the sector should be picking up, and my impression is that it is actually doing so. It's true it was disappointing. I wouldn't go so far as to say that, but there were a few reasons for that. The reason was not only that they did not pay attention to management. Mr Reuten asked whether I had sufficient information to inform the sector. I agree with him that it is very important that the sector stays involved and that we discuss it with each other. That is why I will do so before I finally put the AMvB in front of you, because I do not want it to come to them through the Chamber as it were. This must also be exchanged in consultation with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-eerstekamer-10.u87	Mr Reuten, please have a very brief interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-eerstekamer-10.u88	I specifically referred to the scope of the AMvB, namely compensation for the limit.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-eerstekamer-10.u89	That will, of course, be part of the conversation. We must make a proposal and discuss its significance with the sector, but we have had a clear message from the beginning that your Chamber has a certain wish. Moreover, the sector itself wants to do the same. The good news is that it has always been argued that we should take a step on this issue. That'll make it a little easier. Once again, I said in the letter that I really hope that I can make a proposal to you as soon as possible. I also said in the letter that I am doing my best to do so in March. Last but not least, I thank Mr Holdijk for his reflection. I really appreciate that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-eerstekamer-10.u90	I propose that we vote next week on the motion tabled. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the information he has provided.
