ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-2.u1	Mr. Chairman. The RIVM and the Central Veterinary Institute are alarming again because of a new antibiotic resistance through the use of colistin in the livestock industry. This medicine is the last resort against resistant bacteria for people with infection. These resistant bacteria occur on a large scale in China on chicken, turkey and pork, but this resistance has also been found in the Netherlands on chicken and turkey meat. The literally sickening livestock industry seems to be moving from scandal to animal disease crisis to scandal. The Secretary of State cannot end the bio-industry with his portfolio, but I would like to know the following from him. Can the Secretary of State indicate whether colistin resistance also occurs in pigs in the Netherlands, as is the case in China? Is the Secretary of State prepared to carry out research, together with his colleague from Economic Affairs, into colistin resistance which is fed from the livestock industry? Can the Secretary of State indicate whether the NVWA controls products and whether it maintains the presence of these resistant bacteria? Is the Secretary of State prepared to introduce a reporting obligation for livestock farmers and veterinarians if the presence of resistance on a holding has been detected? Can these data be made public? Is the Secretary of State prepared to inform the consumer of the risk that colistin bacteria resistant to Dutch meat may also occur?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. As Mrs Thieme says, antibiotic resistance is indeed a very, very important subject. In June 2015, the directors of VWS and of Economic Affairs sent a proposal for an integrated approach to antibiotic resistance to the Chamber. Colistin is indeed a "last resort" antibiotic. In other words, it's used when nothing else works. We must therefore be very careful about this. Parliamentary questions are prompted by the fact that recent research data from China have suggested that resistant properties can easily be transferred from one bacterium to another and that the transfer of animal to humans can take place. If this assumption is true, it would be a worrying development, which we must keep a close eye on. Mrs Thieme asked whether resistance exists in the Netherlands. Fortunately, this is not the case in humans and animals, and this has remained the same over the past year. So far, there is no evidence of an increase in the Netherlands. We asked the Health Council to include this study in the opinion on the risks of antibiotic resistance in animal husbandry, which it is currently working on. I expect this opinion to be delivered at the end of this year. In spring 2016, the Court will be informed about the follow-up approach to antibiotics and animals. Questions on control and prevalence will be taken into account. If, on the basis of the study on colistin, it appears necessary to take additional measures, the Court will also be informed. I would stress that antibiotic resistance does not comply with the borders of the Netherlands, as Mrs Thieme said. During next year's presidency, the VWS Minister will pay close attention to antibiotic-resistant substances. A conference will be held specifically on this subject within the framework of the Global Health Security Agenda. So it's high on the agenda. We are working on this together with the Health Council, and if there is any reason to take further action, we will do so. We will then inform the Chamber in the spring of 2016.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-2.u3	RIVM would like to do further research. So that is unrelated to the advice of the Health Council. I therefore ask once again whether the Secretary of State would like to give space and also the means to RIVM to carry out the research into colistin resistance. I had also asked a question about protecting consumers. We know that almost all chicken meat contains resistant bacteria, such as ESBL bacteria. We know you can't eat meat without risk right now. Consumers are not informed of this, other than that they are sent to a website of the Food Centre. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that it should be left to the consumer whether he or she wants to eat that meat? Does the Secretary of State therefore agree with me that packaging should include a risk of eating meat because it contains resistant bacteria?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-2.u4	That was a specific question and a general question. The specific question is whether the RIVM has room for further research into this. The answer to that question is yes. It is also the reason why we have asked the Health Council to include this investigation in its opinions. The Health Council then looks at all the investigations, including those that should still be carried out. The second question concerns the proper advice of the Health Council. What about antibiotic resistance and what does that mean for food safety? The advice given by the Health Council on this point will also be taken into account in policy. However, to say in general that something is a risk because there are antibiotics in it is wrong. Antibiotics are also provided to animals to prevent them from becoming ill. The amount of antibiotics we have to fight together. Large reduction rates have already been achieved in the Netherlands compared to 2009: around 58%. But if the Health Council sees reason to propose further measures from the point of view of public health, we will certainly do so. We'll inform the Chamber about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-2.u5	What is the importance of informing consumers about the fact that there may be resistant bacteria on meat? Almost 100% of chicken meat contains resistant bacteria and veal, beef and pork may contain resistant bacteria. What is the importance of this cabinet against putting this on the packaging? Then something else will be protected, rather than public health. Could that be commercial interests?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-2.u6	Internationally, we have the unique situation in the Netherlands that both public health and agriculture and economics are contributing to reducing the use of antibiotics in livestock farming. That is a successful policy. I pointed out that a 58% reduction has taken place since 2009. However, antibiotics will be needed, both for human and non-human use. Antibiotics are used to avoid diseases, including in animals. That means you can't say in general that they should never be used again. Everyone understands that medications are sometimes provided. However, it is very important to reduce the quantity. Once again, if there are grounds for further action in the context of public health, we will inform the Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-2.u7	We saw what that meant during the Q-fever epidemic. Then the cabinet also quietly said to the citizens: leave this to us, we protect you. We have seen that it has made thousands of people sick and that it has killed 23 people. In this case, therefore, I ask the Secretary of State again: why should the consumer not decide for himself? Why should the consumer not be informed himself that there is a risk of death from meat, because there are resistant bacteria on them, where there is no cure against them?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-2.u8	It can't be, because it's too general. Medicines will be used to improve or prevent animals from becoming ill. That's what we use resources for. The use can be much less and an active policy has been put in place. Partly as a result of the Q-fever affair, close cooperation between VWS and Economic Affairs has developed to ensure that this is a joint approach. The Chamber has been informed of this and will be further informed in response to the opinion of the Health Council. I refer to the commitment that, at the beginning of 2016, on the basis of the opinion of the Health Council expected at the end of this year, we will send the Chamber any necessary follow-up steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-2.u9	Finally, I would like to say this. The Secretary of State asks the citizen to trust that the government will solve it properly. Then I would ask the Secretary of State to answer my question as to whether there is or will be a notification requirement for livestock farmers and veterinarians when they find colistin resistance on a farm. Will that event be made public?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-2.u10	The opinion of the Health Council focuses, among other things, on whether there are health risks associated with the use of colistin. We're gonna have to weigh up the Health Council's advice. In the spring of 2016 we will be able to inform the Chamber further about possible measures. I do not want and cannot anticipate this now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-2.u11	So we have months to wait, and in the meantime the public remains in the dark.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-2.u12	I think we have a very strict policy. If there are health risks, they'll figure it out. The Health Council was set up to screen those health risks. We are giving this Council an opportunity to deliver an opinion on this. On that basis, we will develop policies if necessary. That is the way things are going as we agreed in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-2.u13	The Secretary of State states that he considers it too general that there may be health risks if people consume meat. But you could say: with all these ifs and buts, can we really put a warning on the packaging? What exactly is against telling the consumer honestly about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-2.u14	Of course, that general packaging doesn't mean anything. A warning that there might be antibiotics in meat does not mean that there are health risks. So, as such, it doesn't say anything specific about which health risks that is. That is why we in the Netherlands are also on the way to link public health and antibiotic use in the food industry very closely and to check every time whether there are health risks. I would point out that this is a huge step forward internationally. We are leading the way in the Netherlands with this combination. If there can be health risks, we will find out and take measures if necessary. We will do the same in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-2.u15	You may stay for a while, because the next question will also be put to you. You're replacing half the cabinet today, I think.
