ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-7.u1	In the second term of office, I am the first speaker to give the floor to Mr Nijboer of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. People are angry and indignant about the rewards for the top of companies in the Netherlands, so not only financial institutions but institutions in the broad sense. That requires counterpower and counterpower. Hence the next motion signed by Mrs Schouten. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in many large companies the relationship between the top pay and the workforce has been dissipated;]] [[Whereas a more balanced remuneration policy is necessary;]] [[Whereas it is necessary to strengthen the position of workers;]] [[calls on the Government to come forward with proposals to increase employee participation and control over the remuneration of top executives of companies,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Nijboer and Mr Schouten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31789-55]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-7.u3	The debate on remuneration in the financial sector shows that there is a broader problem, namely that bankers still miss out too much on joining society. I am not only talking about the mission to serve society and to lend credit to SMEs, but also about the focus of the summit of companies to solve problems with derivatives and usury policies, which are still wrong. We have also heard the Minister say again how much time and energy the ABN summit has put into reward discussions: do we get the barrel or not, do we get the bonus from a few years ago or not? That's gotta be over. Drivers should focus on serving banking and serving society. I believe that the motion I tabled together with Mrs Schouten will help, but much more is needed to bring the financial sector back to health.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-7.u4	Mrs Schouten has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-7.u5	Not about the motion, because that's just a good motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-7.u6	Your name was underneath, wasn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-7.u7	Sure. I do have a question about Mr Nijboer's last remark that banks should be serviceable and that banks should no longer be involved in derivatives etc. incidents and in long-term pay discussions. If I may believe the minister, this cabinet has chosen the route for ABN: a certain direction and as soon as possible to the stock exchange. The PvdA's electoral programme states that "and these are words that I fully endorse "that the service of the banks to our economy must be decisive and not shareholder returns and profit growth in the short term." How, however, does Mr Nijboer intend to combine all the fine words he has just said with a very quick course to the market, with almost no say in what is going to be going to be done in these areas?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-7.u8	That is a very fair question from Mrs Schouten. The PvdA wants all banks to be more serviceable to society. That is why we agreed on a whole legislative programme in the coalition agreement. I would almost say that this is the most ambitious bonus restriction legislation in the world. I also mention the banker's oath which has just entered into and which has actually yet to prove its material value. I also refer to the higher buffers for banks so that the account no longer reaches the taxpayer but the investors. As far as the PvdA is concerned, the 4% is only a first step and we need to go even further to raise those buffers for all banks, so we also do not accept that, for example, the Rabobank or the ING recklessly bankers. So it is necessary, with general legislation, which also applies to the banks that are now in state hands, to make the sector healthy again. That's the route the PvdA wants to follow.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-7.u9	At the time of the settlement of work, the PvdA called for a debate on the ING which, in the words of the same PvdA, would not comply with the Work and Security Act, while these are not my words, but those of the PvdA, the rewards have increased enormously at the top. It's the PvdA that barks but doesn't bite when it's possible. Is Mr Nijboer prepared to consider what steps should be taken to get ABN AMRO to serve that bank before we take all kinds of final steps towards the stock exchange?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-7.u10	No. I also very much disagree with Mrs Schouten that we bark and would not bite. Look at the rewards in the semi-public sector and at the law on the standardisation of top incomes, which are below the minister's salary. Look at the corporate director driving Maserati's. You can't do that anymore. Look at the bonus legislation, which is the strictest in Europe. I don't want things to go back to the way they were in the past. Then they got much higher bonuses. I agree with Mrs Schouten that we are not here yet. That is why I would like to go further and have tabled a motion with her. Look at the remuneration of ABN AMRO's board of directors. I have expressed a firm opinion on this. I called on the summit to return to that, and in the end, after social pressure, it was abandoned. Moreover, this pressure came not only from us and from the Chamber, but above all from employees and from society, as we understand from the Minister. Those are already three concrete things that have been achieved. So we are achieving something together, but we need back pressure. That is why I want to strengthen the counterpressure of employees.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-7.u11	Not to mention the call, of course. However, what is at stake here is the following. The FNV proposed in the hearing to introduce balanced wage development for the whole wage building. If the staff is on the zero line, why is the CEO giving themselves 38%? That's inexplicable. Nor can this minister explain it. No one can explain it, but it happens. We see it now at ING. Why does the PvdA not go a lot further by saying that the collective agreement and percentage wage increases apply to everyone within the bank, because everyone within the bank contributes to the bank's success?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-7.u12	That's exactly the direction we need to take. That is exactly the kind of proposal that my colleague Monasch makes for housing corporations and my school colleagues. I'd say it's very healthy for banks, too. In fact, ABN AMRO, of course, has been at the heart of the debate. The indignation of our colleagues was also about the fact that all kinds of people are being thrown out of their way and that a zero line is being asked for for years, while the drivers themselves take a tonne because it might be legally possible to do so. That's not acceptable behavior. Society doesn't accept that anymore. That, too, is exactly why I am looking for ways to strengthen this counter-pressure, which is social. This time, I'm doing it through employee consultation. We already have the hardest bonus legislation in Europe. By the way, it's about more than just bonuses. She also deals with retention payments, welcome salaries and option packages. You can invent an entire arsenal of things that are possible. They're all limited.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-7.u13	I understand that, if I make a motion calling on the government to ensure balanced wage development in financial institutions where collective bargaining is also leading the board, Mr Nijboer supports that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-7.u14	I would be very much in favour of the board of directors, the summit of institutions, much more... Honestly, I think that a decline is almost necessary. There is a factor of 20, 30, 40, 50 or 60 relative to the ordinary worker. Those aren't normal relationships. I also think that, as a politician, we are not making a crazy call. We're just asking you to behave normally. I have to make a comment on that. We never support any motion by the PVV following the 'less, less, less' statements by the chairman of the group. Mr Van Dijck knows that about us. So the PvdA will not support them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-7.u15	I am trying to understand Mr Nijboer's motion. I understand the bit about more employee participation. I understand that from his argument. However, he talks not only about more participation, but also about more control, applicable to the top executives of all companies in the Netherlands. Should I understand the motion in such a way that the works council will soon have the right to set a maximum salary for top executives of the company and thus receive a right of veto on a wage increase?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-7.u16	The PvdA really wants to organize counterpower for the race to the top of top rewards. We had a hearing last Tuesday on the initiative of the SP, GroenLinks and the CDA. You heard the arguments of Commissioners' boards there to come up with such rewards. One of the arguments was that one wants top talent. There was also a reasoning about medians. Everyone knows that when you find a median, there's always a group underneath it. If you keep looking at other companies and finding out that you're underneath, the median keeps going up. That's exactly what we saw. It's gonna take counterpower. The PvdA wants employees to be able to form those counterpowers. We ask the cabinet how this can be done. We ask the Cabinet to develop proposals for this. We will then consider whether there should be participation, advisory rights or procedural reservations. I think that is all issues of elaboration. They are more up to the Minister for Social Affairs and that is what our fellow Social Affairs spokesmen will be talking about. I'd like to organize that counterpower, because it's necessary. One doesn't behave properly on his own.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-7.u17	I understand this counter-force argument and I understand it from the Labour Party. So the first part of that motion, more participation, I understand from all sides. The question is what explanation the author of this motion gives to control. Does that mean that the works council can say by majority: we lower the top driver's salary, because that is control? Or does it mean that the or gets a right of advice, of course a very important right of advice, but that it stays there? It's two-and-a-half. What is the purpose of the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-7.u18	As far as I am concerned, the main objective is to organise more opposition from employee education against that development, that race to the top at the top. I would like to have our colleagues in the Social Affairs Committee discuss the precise design of this. So I am completely open to further discussion as to whether it will be an advisory right or a suspension procedure. I believe you have three other options in the field of employee law, up to and including the right of assent, but I am very much in favour of the direction of strengthening and strengthening the power of the works council.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-7.u19	I really think it's crucial what's being said. Mr Nijboer really needs to be clear about the precise interpretation. It is either a right of consent or an advisory right. Counseling law isn't really that big a deal, because then you can say something. I think that employees are always allowed to say something, so this isn't gonna do us any good. If he means consent, we've got something.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-7.u20	I think that is wrong. I heard the chairman of ABN AMRO's Supervisory Board say at the hearing last Tuesday that 100% of the staff are fully behind this, but the FNV gave other noises an hour earlier. You've heard the same thing yourself. I'm not convinced that's the truth. On the contrary, I want to ensure that employees are heard in such decision-making. In what way, whether that is through consent or through advisory rights, I can discuss it all. All this also needs to be sorted out legally, and I do not think that is so important at all. I want to organize counterpower. As far as I'm concerned, both variants are negotiable. There are advantages and disadvantages to everything, but organising this counterpower is at the heart of this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-7.u21	I know that. This is how Mr Nijboer always works, at first they are very big words and then everyone thinks: 'right of consent, something is going to happen', but when I hear this story like this, it is only right of advice and you can say something. Then I think: you can always say something, then what is the added value of this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-7.u22	The Board of Commissioners of ABN AMRO did not go to court first with the question: what do you think? That has not been the case. Otherwise we would have received a very clear signal and the Supervisory Board should have also explained to the employees, not afterwards, why it had come back to the decision. Then perhaps one would have become aware in advance of the fact that this should not have been done. So I strongly dispute that that could not have had an effect. If directors and supervisory boards not only know what the peer groups are, what the medians, what the talent to the top and I know a lot of what arguments are more, but also what their own employees think about it, I think that is a serious argument that would really affect the outcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-7.u23	I have another question about ABN AMRO's IPO, because we have now had the debate on the rewards. Fortunately, the decision has been reversed, but the bank is not yet in order. I have been very clear that the decision to bring this bank to the market should not be taken so quickly. In fact, we have to postpone that for a number of years. I would like to hear again whether the PvdA shares that view and, if it does not, why it believes that a decision could be taken quickly on the market.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-7.u24	I think it is really up to the Minister to assess when there is sufficient rest and confidence to make that decision. The PvdA has substantive conditions for setting ABN AMRO on its own. I mentioned this: include in the statutes that the bank is serving, include a protection structure so that what has happened before cannot happen again, namely that the bank is being trampled over, and not too much cost to business bankers, because the hundreds of million that occasionally circulate are completely unacceptable to me. Those are tough conditions, and the decision will have to comply with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-7.u25	It was Mr Nijboer who said earlier that there is no peace now. He has also acknowledged that it is very good that the bank is not going to the market now. At that time he thought that was quite right, but now I hear from the cabinet: we are going to make a decision as soon as possible that we are still bringing ABN AMRO to the market. Isn't this a unique moment to rethink the overall banking landscape? We have received new information on the state of ABN AMRO. Then we have to take that time, Mr Nijboer, to make sure that we are really going to bring about a cultural change before this bank goes to the market?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-7.u26	I prefer to talk about a change in behaviour rather than a change in culture, because I prefer to rely on behavior rather than the vague "culture change." There is still a long way to go in this respect, in the financial sector as a whole. This applies not only to ABN AMRO, but also to ING. It also applies to the Rabobank. It also applies to insurers. They need higher buffers. The banker's oath has yet to be fulfilled. Now this one still seems too much of an empty letter. The whole financial sector therefore still has a very broad agenda to work out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-7.u27	Mr. Chairman. Mr Nijboer mentioned accepting or regulating earlier. In my view, a number of parties regret that they did not support that one amendment. Then I think, at least let us get it right. I am thinking more of a sector-wide regime for bank directors. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the salaries of bank directors have recently been substantially increased;]] [[Whereas it is undesirable for this trend to continue;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibilities for legal restrictions on the permanent salaries of bank directors;]] [[Invites the Government to report to the Court by September 2015 at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Merkies, Klaver and Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31789-56]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-7.u28	I am not convinced that what Mr Dijsselbloem seems to be is that this board of Commissioners can still sit with this institution. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that ABN AMRO's current Supervisory Board has damaged confidence;]] [[calls on the Government to replace the full Supervisory Board,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Merkies. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31789-57]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-7.u29	The Minister expressed his regret at the late announcement of the Chamber. I assume that at least this means that from now on he will always explicitly inform the Chamber about such matters. That seems to me to be an agreement from now on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-7.u30	Mr. Chairman. I have three motions, so I'll be brief. The first motion concerns confidence in ABN AMRO's summit. We do not understand that, despite all the warnings and despite all the signals from the market, salary increases have been maintained. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the ABN AMRO Summit made a serious error of assessment by increasing the board's salaries by €100,000;]] [[noting that the ABN AMRO summit ignored all warnings that this would be detrimental to the bank, morally reprehensible and likely to cause social unrest;]] [[Whereas this decision was finally reversed after the Minister suspended the IPO;]] [[having regard to the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee;]] [[calls on the government to replace ABN AMRO's management and postpone the IPO until the calm has returned and has been cleaned up on rewards, governance and internal control,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Tony van Dijck. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31789-58]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-7.u31	The PVV also finds it incomprehensible that the Minister makes it happen that salaries are raised by tens of percent in order to circumvent the bonus ceiling. He made it clear in the debate six months ago that this was not the intention. He would even come up with measures if this were to happen. Well, it happens: ING gives itself 28% increase. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the 20% bonus ceiling has resulted in exorbitant increases in the fixed salaries of different financial institutions;]] [[whereas the Minister had hoped that this would not happen and that the sector would handle this wisely and prudently;]] [[calls on the Government to take measures to eliminate the possibility of compensating for lower bonuses with an increase in fixed remuneration,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Tony van Dijck. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31789-59]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-7.u32	I had another motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-7.u33	You don't have time for that anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-7.u34	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for answering the questions. I am glad he indicated that he should have informed the Chamber better. Every time he comes back to the fact that this debate should have been held in November as far as he was concerned. I think that should have been done in March when he knew that this decision was going to be implemented earlier. I am glad that the Minister indicated that he should have done so, but I am still curious as to why he did not do so. That hasn't gotten clear to me yet. He said that he more or less forgot that, but I can hardly imagine a minister suggesting that he has introduced the strictest bonus legislation in Europe forgetting such a thing. Once again, I am glad he said that he should have done better and that he should have informed the Chamber better, but it remains a mystery to me why he did not. We have talked today about the top rewards, but I say to Mrs De Vries that this debate is not yet finished. This goes on. I think it would be a very bad idea if we were to bring ABN AMRO to the market in the short term and if the decision were to be taken soon. Certainly the hearing, including the Supervisory Board, showed that culture or behaviour was not yet in order, as Mr Nijboer also pointed out. However, I am very concerned, because I feel that a kind of political deal has been made in the coalition: the PvdA was allowed to take a break about the level of salaries; that was good and necessary, but ultimately the IPO goes on as agreed in the coalition and ABN AMRO will go to the stock market in the autumn. I regret that, because we should use the momentum that has come up now to fit in to think carefully about the overall banking landscape and how we can really make ABN AMRO an example bank and ensure that the Dutch banking landscape is very strong and serving society.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-7.u35	Mr. Chairman. In my initial contribution, I indicated that there is a big difference between 'unwise' and 'unacceptable'. There is also a large grey area in between, as also shows how this has finally worked out. At least the Minister had given ABN AMRO the impression that he would defend the agreement. There is no doubt that the bank had a different view of this than the words that the Minister ultimately chose. As far as I am concerned, it is one of two: the Minister should have dealt with this last year or he should have actually defended it. This was anything but a good control of the process. In this light, it is unwise that the Minister did not explicitly inform the Chamber of this matter. The Minister now admits that he failed to do so. I accept that, but he also points out that he regrets the situation that has arisen. The image is that he pretends this has arisen outside of his own accord. I don't think that's right. I therefore ask the Minister once again how he assesses his own actions, looking back at how the process has gone and at all the unrest that has arisen, but also at the damage that has now arisen for the bank. With regard to internal control, including on integrity and corruption risks, I would ask the Minister to take an active position as shareholder. I would also ask the Minister to be on top of this in monitoring the progress of these kinds of risks. Does he agree with me? Yesterday I made a point because a question from my group has not yet been answered in writing. That question was about an earlier report from Quote about a strong claim or a substantial write-off on a wild Brazilian mining adventure, which ABN AMRO would hang over its head. Will the Minister still be able to respond to this? Looking ahead, I would like to stress once again the importance of increasing competition in the banking sector, as well as the importance of increasing buffers and security in the banking sector. That is why I have co-signed a motion by Mr De Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-7.u36	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for the clear answer to the questions. As Mr Klaver has just pointed out and as I said to Mr Nijboer, after this debate, the feeling that the PvdA was allowed to bark about the rewards continues, but that the VVD finally bites on when it comes to the public purse. I hope that we have made it clear in this debate that we are talking about far more than just the rewards. They almost symbolise something bigger, whether anything has changed in the banks' boardrooms since the crisis and how the financial institutions will regain the confidence that has now been lost. That is the task for the banks, but also for politics. We have seen here several times today that politics has left behind a number of moments in which it has been able to exert its influence. Therefore, my appeal is not to let this moment flow again without thinking about how we can turn ABN into a truly serviceable bank, which is no longer dominated by this kind of discussion about rewards, fraud and risks. I do not think we have yet reached a decision on this issue. As far as we are concerned, this discussion will continue. I have therefore co-signed a motion by Mr Omtzigt, in which we ask the Minister to put together several scenarios for the future of ABN, including, for example, a corporate model, to see how we can make the bank truly serviceable to society.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-7.u37	Mr. Chairman. For this debate and also during this debate, it was clear that the Minister was in a bit of a split, but in this debate he also showed quite agility to find a way out of it. We hope that this debate will ensure that peace is restored, that we can look back to the future and that we can secure as much of the billions of euros as possible from the taxpayer. I have one motion. The Minister just said in his reply that switching has many fathers. That is what this motion is about. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas:]] [[Switching to another number-preserved bank is still not possible;]] [[this has long been the case in the telecoms sector;]] [[switching to another bank despite the change-over service is not yet simple and easy;]] [[the issue of number retention in Europe appears to have been postponed because an evaluation of IBAN will not take place until 2019;]] [[noting that:]] [[moving to another bank could and should be easier;]] [[making switching easier increases the choice for the customer;]] [[this will increase competition in the banking sector;]] [[calls on the government to conduct an external investigation into facilitating and simplifying switching, including what steps are already possible or can be taken to switch with number retention,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Aukje de Vries and Mr Koolmees. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31789-60]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-7.u38	Although the Minister has indicated that there is an evaluation under way, we also consider it important to examine the possibilities independently of the banks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-7.u39	Of course, it would be very good if the citizens and the customers could vote with their feet; you can only welcome that. But one of the barriers to not switching is the fines. Lots of people have a mortgage. At the moment when they want to move to another bank because the first bank doesn't like them for any reason, they get a huge fine on their pants. That's what makes them think ten times before they switch. Is the VVD willing to cancel all those crazy fines together with the PVV, all those handbinders that make it impossible to switch?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-7.u40	Of course, no one likes the fines, but they're there for a reason. In part, they are for the management of business and for the raising of capital by the banks. So I do not think we will be able to find a solution very soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-7.u41	In Belgium they also know something about fines, but there you pay up to three months. The fines here in the Netherlands are the biggest handbinders in the world you can imagine. We can at least look at how we can reduce those fines so that people can vote with their feet more easily, which is why Mrs De Vries is such a supporter of the financial sector. Now you're sitting by a couch and you're tied with hands and feet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-7.u42	I think it is the responsibility of people themselves to see in advance what contract they are signing and what obligations they are bound by. I trust that will be done in terms of fairness and fairness. If that is not the case and proposals are very unreasonable, then people can talk to Kifid for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-7.u43	I am a little surprised at this motion tabled in a debate on ABN AMRO, but in principle I think it is a nice motion. It is interesting that this is the end of the VVD in this debate. I do have a question on this, in addition to what Mr Van Dijck is asking. In relation to these fines, Mr De Vries says: you should not sign the contract. However, this can only be done if you opt for a variable rate of interest, which is quite unwise for other reasons. So those fines are in all the contracts. Will Mrs De Vries at least be involved in the fact that if you switch to another bank, the mortgage interest rate on the existing mortgage will not rise? If you have a mortgage with Bank A, you will receive a so-called "interest discount" if you have your salary deposited in an account of that bank. In this way they bind you completely and no one with a mortgage can change bank about half of the Dutch. Can I understand that it is included in the investigation that such discounts are no longer allowed, so that you can possibly keep the mortgage with another bank in order to avoid those fines, but you do not have to pay extra interest?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-7.u44	We propose an external investigation to see how it is possible. If this has to be a part of it, then that can also be looked at. I don't think it's very easy to solve. However, if there are obstacles, it must be possible to look at them. We are simply asking for an investigation into the possibilities of facilitating and simplifying it. I understand, however, that sometimes there are things that have such a huge financial impact that it creates problems for the management of a bank. Let us await this investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-7.u45	I explicitly make a cut between paying off a mortgage at once, which has to do with the financial costs and the long-term contract, and keeping your mortgage at one bank because you happen to sit there and transferring your payment account to another bank. In the latter case, banks increase mortgage interest rates. That's what I think you should get rid of, because if you don't want to, then no one can change unless he repays his mortgage in one go. That is not desirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-7.u46	As far as I'm concerned, that's part of the investigation. We need to see what possibilities there are for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-7.u47	Mr Van Klaveren has signed off on the follow-up to the debate. I now give the floor to Mr Omtzigt of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-7.u48	Mr. Chairman. The Minister says in March, reluctantly: okay then. Then Mr. Nijboer calls and the IPO gets canceled. The minister calls the mp and the vice prime minister and they say: only for a few weeks. And in a few weeks, of course, the IPO goes on as a whole. That is not the best way, but it is a clear signal at the top of ABN AMRO that they have not yet gained the trust of Dutch society. Businesses such as SME interest rate derivatives and special management also play a role in this. This bank has not yet fully exploited its six years as a state bank to remove all the concerns of the Dutch population. Normally trust goes on horseback and it comes on foot, but this government has first considered giving up trust and now has full confidence in ABN AMRO again. With this government, it's the other way around. It is to be hoped for ABN AMRO that the confidence of the Dutch people in the banks will return just as quickly. But we need to look ahead to how we are going to shape privatisation. That is why I am tabling the next motion, as announced by Mr Schouten. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that all the fuss about ABN AMRO has created a restless environment around the bank and that it is precisely a need for a stable transition from the bank from public to private property;]] [[Whereas a stable long-term bank for Dutch society is more important than short-term yield maximization;]] [[calls on the Government to submit a number of privatisation scenarios to the Chamber, at least on protection structures against unwanted takeovers, the timing, pace and modality of privatisation, the potential of a cooperative model and how to ensure that the bank can be stable and serviceable to society in the long term and to conduct this discussion with the Second Chamber before a renewed decision on privatisation is taken,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt and Mr Schouten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31789-61]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-7.u49	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for his reply. He literally said: "I cannot say: with retroactive effect I will deprive you of your rights. All I could do was give up trust." What does the Minister think of this sentence happening to pensioners at home in the living room? Retrospectively, pensioners have been deprived of their rights thanks to this cabinet. They must wait until the next elections to give up their confidence. We consider the broad independent state committee proposed by 50PLUS to be important. The law that now regulates bonuses is a good start. However, the escape route by increasing the regular salary, Mr Van Dijck, rightly pointed out that the escape route is now being used. That will be no different after the IPO of ABN AMRO. 50PLUS takes the social unrest seriously. Only broad agreement on the absolute level of salaries for the administrative summit of financial institutions with a utility function can alleviate this unrest. That is why I will table the next motion together with Mr Merkies. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas social unrest about the remuneration of directors of financial institutions with a general utility undermines confidence in directors and institutions;]] [[Whereas, after seven years of discussion, there is no beginning of consensus on what is a reasonable remuneration;]] [[invites the Government to set up a wide-ranging independent state committee to give concrete advice within one year on a socially and economically sound overall level of remuneration for directors of such financial institutions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol and Mr Merkies. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31789-62]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-7.u50	Mr. Chairman. In the first term, we indicated that with ABN AMRO, but also with SNS, we can only go to the stock market when the lending and mortgage lending is properly arranged. That is why I shall table the next motion on this matter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in the Netherlands 45% of SME credit applications are rejected by banks;]] [[noting that in Germany and France 14% and 18% respectively of credit applications are rejected and that in Europe only Greece scores less than the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the government, ABN AMRO and SNS Reaal to bring to the stock market only once lending to SMEs is at least at the level of the average of the best five countries in the European Union,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Öztürk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31789-63]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-7.u51	The Minister may respond directly to the motions tabled and answer the outstanding questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-7.u52	Mr. Chairman. I think I can almost do my utmost to deal with the motions. In addition, however, a few Members have come back to matters that have already been exchanged in the first term. Nevertheless, they have asked questions again. Mr Merkies has said that I will always inform the Chamber about these matters in future. The complexity of this wording is "this kind of thing." Let me just say that I will be guided by my fine political feeling. If I have the impression that matters are important for the confidence of the Chamber in the bank and thus for its confidence in me, then I will inform her. Nevertheless, I am giving the Chamber a note that between now and the IPO business will come out, through leaked things again or through good investigative work by journalists, who will be grand and compelling in the newspaper, after which the Chamber will say: how is that possible; we did not know that. That's gonna happen. That depends on the fact that we are dealing here with a large and international company that I am not the director, let alone the chairman of the board of directors. As important matters come to my attention which I think are important for, for example, the IPO, I will inform the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-7.u53	That is good to hear, but of course I am also concerned about the fact that next time the Minister does not say that formally when the decision was taken he dives into the legal system but that he realizes that he has to report it if he has had a conversation that is important and can cause commotion later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-7.u54	Yes. And then I add that it doesn't exactly take a ruler to measure what it is, but I think I understand the message. This also relates to Mr Klaver's question, which came back to the question of why I did not inform the Chamber earlier. He said, "The minister sort of forgot." At least I didn't say that. That statement falls into the category of "putting words in the mouth'. I said that it was about implementing a 2012 decision that we all knew. In addition, like all companies, the bank itself is accountable for the remuneration policy. In this particular case, I should have explicitly pointed out to the Chamber that... Anyway, we have discussed this several times. Mr Klaver and others have suggested that there would be a political deal. I can only speak for myself: I know no political deal. I have described how the discussion with the bank has been about remuneration and how we have not been able to prevent this debate from coming to a full extent over the last few weeks, resulting in damage to the bank. I regret that, of course, but there is no deal. The reason why the IPO has been postponed is purely and simply that a number of issues have been piled up that the Chamber wanted to talk about and which have been and is highly critical. I also felt that we should first discuss these issues further, that the questions should be answered and that we should therefore work towards restoring confidence. Then we return to the question when the IPO will start. That order still stands. Mr Klaver may think that we have now decided that the IPO is starting again, but that decision has not yet been taken. This requires a restoration of peace and trust. I hope that this debate has contributed to that today. I also think that the decision of the Management Board itself to definitively waive this salary increase is contributing to this. But we're gonna weigh again over the next few weeks if that's the case. Mr Klaver and others have said that this must give rise to a pass on the spot. I suspect, however, that you should excuse me, President-in-Office of the Council, that some of the groups that are before that are not in favour of an IPO in the first place or find it too early in the first place, and so on. You can do all that. This has already come from an earlier debate in the Chamber. We have held the main debate on whether an IPO is the right way forward for ABN. A majority of the House agreed with the cabinet, but some groups did not. I do not think that we should take advantage of this issue in order to have that discussion again. You can always do that, but I wouldn't be for it. We have had that debate. We come with an extensive letter when we find that the bank is ready again and the peace and confidence have returned to a sufficient extent. In this letter we will discuss a number of aspects concerning the design of the IPO and so on. What Mr Klaver is actually asking me, and this is reflected in Mr Omtzigt's motion, is to send the first letter again and to have the debate on it again. That's not what I'm here for. Mr Koolmees once again referred to 'unwise' and 'unacceptable'. That was, of course, the frame before the debate and I am sorry to say that everything I have said about it has not changed Mr Koolmees' text. I've said I don't think it's wise. But that was not the only thing I said to Mr President-in-Office. Mr Koolmees might have wanted to say as the ultimate consequence: get out! In the light of the way in which this decision was taken and in the light of those who approved it in 2012, I said that I do not think I can show those people the door. That's the trade-off I made. All the other words have been conveyed by me in a very strict and convincing manner.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-7.u55	That's exactly what I didn't say. I have just said that between 'unwise' and 'unacceptable' there is a large grey area.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-7.u56	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-7.u57	This is also evident now that the ball has started to roll and we see what the final result is. I notice the Minister says the Chamber has been sleeping.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-7.u58	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-7.u59	The room should have known. The ABN summit made mistakes. He indicated in March 2014 that unwise, undesirable and bad for the bank to find, but he did accept it. At the same time, this shareholder also called for employees in the collective agreement to be kept on the line to moderate wage costs, also against this background. The employees are now angry about the fact that the top gets a salary and they are on the zero line, also by this shareholder/minister. My only question is a reflection on the Minister's own actions throughout the process. There were many more possibilities between "unwise" and "unacceptable" which the Minister could have used. I would therefore like to see some reflection on one's own actions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-7.u60	All the possibilities that were in between, I took advantage of in the conversations I had with ABN AMRO. The ultimate consequence 'unacceptable, you can leave', I have not drawn for my miraculous reasons, which I have just given. I'm still defending that. I have tried to express a reflection on my own actions when I said in the first term that I naturally regret the outcome of all this. My commitment was to prevent this damage. At the same time, I was confronted with a decision that was taken quite legitimate in 2012. I'm fixing two things. In the meantime, the political climate around rewards and bonuses has become much more acute and more critical. The 2012 decision would no longer be taken, probably not by the then directors if they had been there today. But in 2012 it was still acceptable. In that circumstance, I have made an assessment. Unfortunately, this has led to the damage that is now being done. I deeply regret that. We're gonna have to repair that damage. Me and the bank are gonna have to work hard for that. That's how I look back at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-7.u61	Finally. We have indeed seen a change in this discussion in recent years. In 2009 it was Wouter Bos that fixed the six tons and the €300,000 bonus. Two years later, that discussion had changed. Then we passed the law on a bonus ban for state-supported companies. A few years later, the discussion continued. We have now also adopted a law of this minister, the law which sets a bonus ceiling of 20% of the fixed wage. Given this development, given the discussion in society, given the fact that ABN AMRO is being reorganised and the employees are on the zero line, the Minister should have made a different assessment in March 2014. In any case, he should have shared with the Chamber what his consideration was. Perhaps he should have been harder on the board and should have said: it is unacceptable, it is undesirable, it is bad for the bank and therefore bad for me as a shareholder. The Minister now regrets the situation that has arisen, but we all regret it here. I think it's a little noncommittal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-7.u62	No, it's not. As a director and successor to the former shareholder, the former minister or even ministers, I must fulfil the legal commitments he has entered into. The only thing you can put on the other side is a very compelling appeal to the drivers concerned to refrain from doing so. It has been done, but it has not been wanted, with all the damage it has done. We must all realise that the Chamber has also approved a number of matters, which have been regulated by the law and created opportunities. If I say that I regret how things went and with wisdom afterwards would never have taken that decision of 2012 at the time, but well, that is wisdom afterward. Perhaps some self-reflection would fit Mr Koolmees as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-7.u63	Mr Koolmees, you will find this entrapment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-7.u64	For the Acts, I would like to point out that D66 also voted in favour of the Irrgang amendment at that time. We did not think that fixed salaries should be increased. There were other parties that thought so. Mr Nijboer has just mentioned it. That was the situation at the time. That was also the consideration we made at the time. If two years later there was another discussion like this, the Minister could have sensed that this was sensitive in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-7.u65	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-7.u66	The fact that he did not explicitly inform us of this leads to a fuss. Only on 20 March 2015, when the annual report was published, were we informed that these fixed salaries had increased after they had not increased in 2012 and 2013 because of the social commotion, because of the restructuring and because of the zero line for the employees. Then I find it really too easy, as the Minister is doing again, to put the reflection in the Chamber, to ping it back to the Chamber. This reflection should have been done by the Minister himself on 14 March 2014.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-7.u67	I reflected on that. I indicated what I could have done better with regard to the provision of information to the Chamber. I also regret, of course, the outcome of this process. The only thing I gave Mr Koolmees thought to was to reflect on the role of the Chamber. He did, because he said: we supported the amendment. That is true in itself, but a majority of the House did not accept this amendment. So the law explicitly states that you were allowed to compensate for the abolition of the bonus by up to 20% salary increase. That's what happened. The Chamber has been informed about this too. D66 wasn't for that. Other groups have also expressed an explicit opposition to this in the legislative process. However, I am also a legislator. So I have the law to uphold. I have decisions of shareholders or shareholders. Respecting my right-wing predecessors. Then, according to Mr Koolmees, the bottomline is: defend it. His position is: if you are against it, withdraw the ultimate consequence and send away the supervisory board. I made a different assessment, because there was a correct decision from the past, which I can't just sweep aside. The follow-up to Mr Koolmees's statement is: if you do not do so, defend it. I don't agree with him on that last point. If a politician respects and upholds the law, even if he finds that the law cannot be changed or if he does not want to change it, he may still have an opinion on something. If a politician can only have a view on something if he is prepared to enforce or regulate it by law, that would be a huge weakening of politics. I'm not for that. An additional complexity was: even if we had changed the law, we would not have been able to intervene retroactively on the labour position of people. Even by law, you can't. It's just not allowed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-7.u68	I still don't know how that conversation went. First, we keep hearing that the Minister would have said: it is unwise. Now he says again: I have made a very compelling appeal to them not to do so. Did he say don't? That was actually my question. And if he asked, did they simply say no to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-7.u69	This is really going to be a repeat of moves. I have said that there is no verbatim report and that I no longer know exactly what words I have used. But I have indeed in very compelling terms called on the drivers to abandon it. They've taken that into consideration. Later on, they informed me that, having weighed that, they felt that their employers' role in particular could not, and they did not want to, deprive them of the salary increase granted in 2012. I have suggested to them that all this should be legal and administratively correct, but that they should take care that the context has really changed: there are things going on in the company itself, the workers are on the zero line and so on. I told them that it could not be defended, legally perhaps, but purely in substance it is an extremely fragile story. They finally made the decision to go through with it. Then you come to the dilemma: do you send them away? I said how I weighed that up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-7.u70	I referred earlier to the question raised by Mr Koolmees at the hearing the day before yesterday. The Commissioner did not really want to make it clear whether the Minister had called on them not to do so. That's kind of crazy. At least there must be clarity about that. That's not a question of semantics, of words. It's just about whether the minister asked you not to. Then it's not about him saying "in so many words" or "I said it's unwise." No, he explicitly asked, "Don't do it"? And did they simply refuse?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-7.u71	Yeah, I asked them to. It's not like they simply refused. We've talked about it several times. They discussed it internally. They then informed me that, considering everything, they felt that the previous promises and contractual obligations should weigh more heavily. They wouldn't come back to that. That has led to the situation we came into over the past week. Then Mr Koolmees asked a very specific question about a Brazilian mining adventure. We are dealing with a bank that runs financial risks on many projects and customers. I didn't want to give too much information at customer level. It is not for me to decide on individual investment projects. ABN has a portfolio of loans and loans. They're gonna lose on that. Sometimes it is a small SME, sometimes it is a larger project. I do not want to give a detailed report on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-7.u72	I understand this. Nor do I expect the Minister to go into individual projects. What made this salient was that a link was made to internal governance. That's why I signed him up for the written consultation. It fits into the list of Dubai, Russian raw materials and the DNB letter. I can send the play to you again. There really is a link with bankers who were present at private parties of the investor and that sort of thing. I've still got it and I'll be happy to turn it in again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-7.u73	Perhaps you could ask written questions about it, Mr Koolmees. I see you're in agreement with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-7.u74	We'll do it in writing. Then I await Mr Koolmees' question. It just remains that I'm not really gonna answer the level of who met who at parties. I see that Mr Omtzig regrets that. Then I can get to the motions quickly. I think that's better. A number of issues will then come back. In the Nijboer/Schouten motion to item No. 55 the government is invited to come forward with proposals to give employees greater participation and control over the remuneration of top executives of companies. I've just been in touch with my colleague from Social Affairs. If the motion is adopted, he is happy to consider it and come up with proposals where possible and desirable. That's how open the motion is. We'll leave the judgment to the Chamber. I'm coming to the Merkies c.s. motion. in piece No. 56 in which the government is asked to examine the possibilities for statutory restrictions on the permanent salaries of bank directors. We've been looking into it, and that's weighted by the new remuneration policy law on financial corporations. We have strongly motivated why our point of reference lies with the bonuses. This means that in this private sector, therefore, I am not talking about ABN, but about the sector in general, fixed remuneration is not regulated. If you want to do that, you could also consider why you don't do it socially-wide. Indeed, there are much larger and listed companies where salaries are now many times higher than in the financial sector. For the financial sector, our assessment was that we do not want to repeat the financial crisis. There was a relationship with remuneration policy, especially with the exorbitant and dangerous way of offering bonuses to bankers. That's our point of reference. In that debate, I promised the PvdA that we would keep an eye on it. In any case, we are watching how the law is applied, how the banks deal with it and how fixed salaries develop. I'm not gonna come up with proposals to regulate fixed salaries right now. I therefore reject the motion and honour the previous commitment to the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-7.u75	I think there is indeed a big difference between banks and other institutions. Banks are ultimately saved with taxpayers' money and have a social function. That, I think, is why the Minister initially had a hook in the bill to regulate and possibly limit those fixed salaries. The motion calls for an investigation, partly in the light of what we have seen recently. The minister said he was gonna monitor it. That was six months ago. So he was able to monitor for six months. We have seen huge increases in these fixed salaries. Wouldn't that at least justify an investigation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-7.u76	No. I'm not there. I've agreed to keep an eye on it. I will return to the Chamber at some point. I have also said that I will report through DNB supervisor on how the law is applied at all in the sector. I will report to the Chamber on this at some point. At any rate, it is too early to draw the conclusion that we will have to regulate fixed remuneration in the private sector. I come to the Merkies motion in part No. 57 calling on the Government to replace the full Supervisory Board. That is what we have talked about. I don't intend to. I advise against this motion. In Mr Van Dijck's motion to item No. 58 is asked to do the same, but is also asked to replace ABN's management and postpone the IPO and so on. So I'm not gonna replace it. Only the decision on the start of the IPO has been postponed until there is sufficient rest and confidence. The remark about cleaning up around rewards, governance and internal control suggests that it's a mess now. Improvements are being made in a number of areas, including other banks, and the Netherlands Bank is monitoring them. We have talked extensively about remuneration policy. This is now established for the years to come. Bonuses are excluded from ABN and salary increases also up to and including the last part of the IPO. I advise against this motion. In the motion in part No. 59 by Mr Van Dijck, the government is invited to take measures to prevent the possibility of compensating for lower bonuses by increasing fixed remuneration. This repeats the debate held at the Wbfo. I advise against this motion. We will inform the Chamber of the way in which the law is applied in the sector. In the motion by Mr De Vries and Mr Koolmees on part No. 60 the government is invited to conduct an external investigation into facilitating and simplifying switching. I think this is fine. We have already been carrying out an evaluation, but Mrs De Vries has expressly said that it should be broader than just the Transition Service. I've taken note of that. She said it should be independent. It should not only be asked of the sector, but independent consideration should be given to the obstacles to switching. I'm prepared to do that. I'll leave the judgment to the Chamber. In the motion-Omtzitt/Schouten in part No. 61 is actually asked to take the first letter and send a new first letter with the different modalities for the future of ABN and the choices you can make. That letter has the room. We have debated this. Not everyone has come to the same conclusion, but a majority of the Chamber has. In the second letter we will send to the Chamber when we have taken a decision on the IPO, we will deal in detail with a number of important aspects which also concern public interests, guarantees for the future and so on. However, we will not write a whole new scenario letter. I'm dissuading the motion. In the motion in part No. 62 of Mr Krol and Mr Merkies invited the government to set up an independent state committee to reach a responsible overall level of remuneration. In February, the Wbfo came into force, a far-reaching law that regulates a lot and also does a great deal for a private sector in principle. It is an illusion to seek acceptance or consensus on what appropriate remuneration would be in the banking sector. There will be differences in pay levels. One thing we know for sure from now on: variable and incentive payments are strictly regulated and limited. That's what I want to focus on for the time being. The cabinet will therefore not support the request for a new state committee. I'm dissuading the motion. In the motion in part No. 63 by Mr Öztürk, the government is invited to bring ABN and SNS to the market only once a number of levels of service are at the level of the best five countries in the European Union. We don't send at levels of credit. I would find it really undesirable if politics were to decide how much credit should be granted. I believe that banks should respond to the best possible credit requests so that the economy can grow. This also goes gently and slowly in the right direction. I will not make decisions more responsible about the position of these two banks in the banking landscape depend on these kinds of figures. I'm dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-7.u77	It is the citizens and entrepreneurs who saved the same banks and made sure that the bankers can give each other bonuses again. Surely it is your duty to ensure that banks can regain their role in helping citizens and entrepreneurs in the form of credit? You say you're not going to do that, but you're not taking any action to steer the banks in that direction either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-7.u78	No, I'm not sending the banks to credit. I believe that they should assess credit applications in real terms and quickly on the basis of which they then grant or do not grant credit. When politicians decide who gets credits in the Netherlands, this is extremely dangerous. There are experiences of this in some countries. You can almost put it in your agenda when those banks go bankrupt. We're not gonna do that. What we do do is look very closely at the credit situation. At the moment, we are supporting this with a number of government instruments. Mr Kamp now has a series of instruments to further support this lending at this stage, coming from the crisis. However, in the unfortunate circumstances that these banks are now in our hands, the government should not take the lead and decide on lending. That would be really unwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-7.u79	These measures by Mr Kamp are a drop in the ocean, as the Minister himself knows. I'm not saying the government has to decide who needs credit. The point is that the Netherlands, after Greece, is the worst lender in Europe. This Minister should be ashamed of that. I want to make that point. That is why I say: take measures to ensure that the Netherlands does not remain the worst lender in Europe after Greece.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-7.u80	The issue of lending, especially for SMEs, has a longer history. One of the elements in this history is that Dutch SMEs have relatively little equity and were already burdened with debt before the crisis. This was a driving force because the results in SMEs were good and the real estate had value. However, both have gone down. Due to the crisis, the results within SMEs have fallen and the real estate has decreased in value. So our SMEs are currently in a bad and weak position; they have little equity and almost no fat left on their bones. Then it's hard to get even more debt, even more loans. That is the real problem. We are now working very closely on solutions to this problem. This week, Mr Kamp, together with pension funds and insurers, has presented new initiatives worth more than one billion to get funding, i.e. risk capital, from entrepreneurs. We need these types of solutions at the moment and not the order from politics to give people more loans, which would not be a solution for some entrepreneurs either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-09-tweedekamer-7.u81	The vote on the motions tabled will take place next Tuesday.
