ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-5.u1	This is the terrible disaster that took place in Nepal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. A devastating earthquake in Nepal. The toughest in 80 years: 4,500 dead, 8,000 injured and 8 million in need. Our thoughts go out to them, of course. We have seen the most horrible images in recent days: thousands of people in villages closed from the outside world, a completely defected airport, people waiting for the runway, aid workers who don't know where to start and mountain climbers stranded on Mount Everest. The D66 group sees the international community taking action, but Nepal still craves food, water, medicine, doctors, tents and rescue workers. The damage is greater than the GDP of Nepal itself. D66 likes to think along with the cabinet. The cabinet has already released 4 million and sent a search and rescue team. Thank you for that. The question is, however, as Trouw wrote this morning, how we are going to solve this logistical nightmare in Nepal that makes it difficult for aid workers to arrive. The Nepalese government complains about employees of electricity companies and road workers who are simply not there, leaving roads blocked. Aid organisations are now waiting at the border because there are no officials who allow transport. At the airport no more aircraft can land with help because this logistics cannot be handled. The human force and the expertise to do so are lacking. My question to the Minister is therefore whether the Netherlands is prepared to consider, in addition to the contributions already made by the Cabinet, helping to avoid and strengthen airport logistics. Moreover, is the government prepared to contribute to health care too? That is where it is almost wrong now to prevent diseases from breaking out and to ensure that the many injured can count on our support? Is the Netherlands prepared to increase aid if the disaster is even greater than it already is? It has all appearance of that; we now only see the images from Kathmandu, but all the villages of which there are no images yet, which are unreachable, are currently out of sight.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-5.u3	Mr. Chairman. Mr Sjoerdsma has certainly not exaggerated his words for the terrible disaster that has taken place there. The Prime Minister of that country is already taking into account possibly even more than 10,000 deaths. The United Nations has said that 8 million people are seeing their lives disrupted at the moment. 1.4 million of them are short of food. The roads in that country are impenetrable, buildings have collapsed and the communication lines are unusable. The government can't handle what's going on in there. The first concern is, of course, the Search and Rescue which must now take place for all those who are not there and who you hope will still be alive. Search and Rescue must therefore be the first to happen. Saturday was the disaster. On Sunday, the Netherlands sent a team, consisting of 62 people. This is an expert team, which has been asked by the United Nations to coordinate the entire SAR operation. This means that what is currently happening to SAR activities in Nepal is under Dutch coordination. We are all focused on this and at the same time we are trying to facilitate that countrymen there who wish to go back can also leave. We've already managed to get 47 people back on a first flight. Private companies have already recovered 72 people. We're on another flight now, for 80 people. We are also preparing a third flight. So we are trying to get both the Dutch back there and bring necessary help into the area. The United Nations will probably move towards coordination on the Search and Rescue as soon as possible. We are, of course, very willing to do so; as long as it is necessary, we will do so, but as soon as it can be taken over, we will cooperate fully. The United Nations is also in the process of building a somewhat wider capacity, for the follow-up stages of what must be done there. This will be a major operation, involving not only the United Nations but also all kinds of countries. Those countries will have to be willing to make their contribution. The Dutch Government is happy to show the attitude requested by Mr Sjoerdsma. What we can do, we do. It is also good to note that the Dutch private aid organisations which had joined together last Friday in order to be able to act in such situations are now immediately expanding their activities there. There are many dozens of Dutch representatives of these organisations in the country, but they have tied even larger numbers of Nepalese as local staff. We are also working in this way to ensure that our contribution is optimal from the outset.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-5.u4	Thank you to the Minister for replying. I told you, I'd like to think along with the Minister. When I hear him like that, I listen to him the same urgency I feel. I think that's a good thing. However, I had asked him for two specific things. First of all... The minister says, "What we can do, we do." I welcome that; that is a very good basic attitude. However, I have also asked the Minister whether the Netherlands can examine whether the hospitals are now being flooded in the field of medical support, and in the field of logistical support, the airport cannot supply the assistance to any expertise, knowledge and people available to contribute to the better management of this disaster. Second. The minister just went into the Dutch in the area. I understand there were 500 Dutch. The minister says 47 of them are already back as well as 72 through private channels. Can he elaborate on the state of play and on the support given to the Dutch in the area? For example, is the ambassador on the scene in the area? Is there an embassy team in support? Perhaps the Minister could give the latest state of play on support, including for the Dutch who are currently in this difficult area of disaster?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-5.u5	For the purposes of medical assistance and logistics activities to be carried out at the airport, the UN is in the process of setting up an organisation. It also calls for help from countries. The Netherlands is willing to supply people and equipment on both parts. We have also made that known to the UN. We'll wait for the requests. We realize that there are many other countries that have expertise available as far as logistics is concerned. It is up to the UN to make a choice. However, we are certainly available to contribute. I've talked about 500 Dutch. Almost 400 has been in contact somehow. The other Dutch people are still being contacted. I've lost the last question. Maybe Mr. Sjoerdsma can help me?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-5.u6	It was about the consular support. Is the ambassador or the embassy present on the scene in support?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-5.u7	Mr Sjoerdsma, who was very much introduced into that world, knows that we do not have an embassy in Nepal. From New Delhi, we have sent a consular staff there to provide the necessary assistance from that point of view. To sum up, what we could do in the very short term, we did. We've responded in one day. The UN has asked us to coordinate this globally. We certainly remain prepared to make our contribution under the UN umbrella in all kinds of ways to cope with the enormous consequences of this terrible disaster.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-5.u8	There is nothing left for me to say but: thank you, especially for the willingness of the Dutch cabinet to look favourably at UN requests in the field of logistical and medical support. I hope that not only for the Nepalese but also for the Dutch on the ground the aid will arrive as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-5.u9	Less than a month ago I stood on the ninth floor of a monumental tower in the middle of Kathmandu. I was looking out over the city. It's hard to believe that not only that tower, but so much of that city is gone. I was there to talk about the position of children in Nepal and in South Asia in a broad sense. That situation isn't easy. More than half of the children in Nepal, especially in the area currently affected, are malnourished. So that was already the case before the earthquake. There's a lot wrong. A lot of schools have collapsed, that's what we hear. There are no places for children to go. We know what happens when children are vulnerable: they are at risk. Think of traffickering to India, child marriages and so on. I would therefore urge the government to take account of the situation of children in Nepal when looking at the needs, and to urge them to provide adequate assistance quickly. It is not only the first needs such as food and shelter that need to be addressed, but also the needs of children and their specific needs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-5.u10	Mr Van Laar's message is clear. We have seen that UNICEF has also been digging into it by now. It has been found that 900,000 children are currently in need in Nepal as a result of the disaster. That disaster is an additional deterioration for children who have already had a hard time. Children with whom it was reasonable are now in trouble. We will closely monitor what UNICEF is doing and also consider the possibilities we have to make a substantial contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-5.u11	The Minister and I talk about earthquakes all the time. This is a very serious one. I imagine bad things have happened to the small villages near those steep hills near Kathmandu. I would like to congratulate the government on the speedy action on the ground. This morning on Radio 1 I heard a mother complain about the fact that she cannot get in touch with two of her children who are somewhere in those mountains and that she does not hear from the Foreign Office either. Is this an incident, or is the contact of family members of people sitting there with the State Department not structurally correct? If so, can the Minister be kind enough to improve this or to inform his colleague?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-5.u12	I indicated that we have a picture of 500 Dutch people staying in Nepal. Almost 400 of them have been in contact in one way or another. The remaining 100 are contacted. I would like to get the details of the special case for which Mr Smaling is calling for attention. We shall then pay attention to it as he asks. We are now looking at what we need to do to get a picture of the situation of the other Dutch people.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-5.u13	It is good that the cabinet acted quickly and it is also good that it is in line with UN coordination. It is important that this is done centrally. Unfortunately, we can assume that donors will again be called upon to make extra money available. Is the Dutch cabinet prepared and has the room to respond positively?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-5.u14	The Netherlands and Minister Ploumen do not excel in not giving at home in this kind of situation. On the contrary, we are leading the way. The fact that you can send a Search and Rescue team of 62 people to the location within a day and that the UN then asks us to take on the coordination of the whole is an example of that. That attitude of the Netherlands is common in these circumstances. I have no reason to doubt that this will continue to be the case in the near future with regard to this disaster, but also with regard to other disasters that may occur in the near future. This is happening in the world and we, as a global community, have responsibility in such situations. The Netherlands is one of the pillars of the world community and must act as such.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-5.u15	I can imagine that people who are looking at Question Time are motivated to give. Maybe the minister can tell us how they can do that, through what giro number? Otherwise, I'd be happy to help him.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-5.u16	I cannot be helped enough by Mr Voordewind. If he calls the giro number, he'll do me a favor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-5.u17	That is the general number of the Collaborative Aid Organisations: 555 in the name of Nepal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-5.u18	Mr Voordewind has taken the words out of my mouth.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-5.u19	I thank the Minister for his answers and for coming to the Chamber.
