ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-3.u1	Mr. Chairman. A few days ago, the FD read that there was unrest in the healthcare sector, because the Tax Administration would like to charge a high VAT rate on part of the tasks of district nurses. That seems very undesirable to me. Tax and premium money, from VWS intended for the use of extra district nurses, would then be skimmed 20% through the Ministry of Finance. That seems to be a matter of pocket pockets, with big consequences. The administrative pressure on district nurses would increase enormously, and the writing of minutes, which we thought we were about to finally get rid of, has put pressure on the Chamber for years to get rid of, would still be introduced along that road. That does not seem to me to be the point; therefore, I am asking the Secretary of State the following questions. First of all, is it true that some of the district nurse's payments are being prepared via the high VAT rate, namely the part where the district nurse aligns with the general practitioner and writes the social neighbourhood teams and self-indications? Secondly, does the Secretary of State not think that this is contrary to the government's desire to relieve district nurses from many administrative tasks and from writing minutes?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank Mrs Wolbert for her questions. Our paths hadn't crossed here yet. I have to define one party out of this debate, namely the Tax Administration, because the staff of the Tax Administration do not deserve to be blackmailed. They didn't come up with the rules. It is true that rules have changed in the VWS domain. Financing flows have also shifted. It is also true that according to current case law and legislation, all parts are no longer covered by the exemption. The IRS can't do anything but enforce the laws. Many implementing organisations are accused of not implementing the law, but we have one here that does enforce the law. This cannot be blamed on the Tax Administration, but it is true that this exemption can no longer be used for the entire part of those funding flows. I also agree with Mrs Wolbert that this calls for a solution, because it was not meant to be; it has become so because of the changes in the VWS domain. That solution requires two components. Firstly, the Secretary of State for Finance must, of course, be legally able to come up with a new final exemption. It's possible. Secondly, funding should be provided in the VWS domain. This has not been so easy, but it is actually very small amounts. So I had decided to take this into account in the domain of the 2016 Tax Plan. That is why I intend to make this exemption possible, even with retroactive effect, for the problem has been going on since 1 January this year. This would enable the Tax Administration to anticipate this by means of a policy decision. That would mean that the levy is not now in question. It's kind of weird that this is going through a little Question Time. Without this Question Time, this line would normally have come to Mrs Wolbert in the context of the VSO's answers on pregnancy and birth. She's ahead of those answers, so here's the deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-3.u3	You won't be surprised that I'm glad to hear this. This means that the unrest is being removed. I am pleased that the Secretary of State immediately announces that measures are being taken retroactively. I am talking about the fact that all euros that are extra used for the district nurse are actually converted into hours and do not evaporate in administrative matters and conservatively budgeted by the healthcare provider. Uncertainty among healthcare providers leads to conservative planning. I am very pleased with the answers given by the Secretary of State, because it is clear that everything that is used also benefits the client.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-3.u4	This is an excellent step from the Secretary of State. Neighborhood nurses are half administrative offices right now. It cannot be that they will have to play completely for accountant, because that is not what they are meant for. There is another VAT problem in the care sector and that is the case with the Social Support Act. The Secretary of State has previously indicated that he does not yet know whether VAT will be paid under the Wmo. If that happens, we're gonna move money again. Does the Secretary of State see the same kind of solution for the Wmo? If he can't answer that now, I'd like to get a letter on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-3.u5	No, I think that Question Time is a bit of an AO on VAT measures with this question. These problems are not all the same. It is not always the same as the budget. In all cases, the Tax Administration has nothing else to do but follow existing legislation and case law. There are sometimes firm court rulings that the Tax Administration really has to abide by. In all cases there must be cover for an exemption and it is always the case that the search starts in the VWS domain. I cannot now promise that it will work out in all these different cases and in what way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-3.u6	Can you do that in a letter to the Chamber, as Mrs Bruins Slot asked?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-3.u7	I'm discussing several files with the US Secretary of State. As soon as we get there, we will be the first to let the Chamber know.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-3.u8	Do you have any idea when?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-3.u9	No, I didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-3.u10	I thank the Secretary of State for the answers. The reports show that one tax inspector dealt with it differently than the other. May I infer from the words of the Secretary of State that he compliments the tax inspectors who have taken it more generously?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-3.u11	No. If 30,000 people are working on a goal, there are sometimes people who follow a different interpretation. It happens sporadically. Fortunately, the tax administration's self-correcting assets are very large. We always try to draw one line. That line is always by the law. If the legal frameworks change, the Tax Administration will change. As far as I am concerned, everyone in the Tax Office deserves a compliment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-3.u12	Thank you for your answers and thanks for coming to the Chamber.
