ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-5.u1	Mr. Chairman. The appropriate education is pinching. This morning's AD says that research shows that 1,600 teachers, supervisors and directors are negative about the introduction of appropriate education. Appropriate education was introduced only a year ago. It is intended that pupils with learning and behavioral problems in ordinary education should attend school. Special education is being phased out. Students with autism, chronic illness, or learning difficulties end up in classes of sometimes 30 or more pupils. That's a recipe for trouble. Teachers indicate not being able to give all pupils the attention they need. It doesn't seem to be a solution for students with behavioural problems. The classes are way too big. There are too few class assistants and therefore there is too little support and guidance in the classroom. Teachers' workload has increased enormously. Perhaps the most important thing: there is no support in education. The conclusion may therefore be that this cabinet is rushing our teachers and dipping students. What does this Secretary of State do? His propaganda machine is still running at full speed. Appropriate education is indeed a very smart marketing term, but teachers and parents also indicate that it is still an experiment with students. My questions to the Secretary of State are as follows. Does the Secretary of State recognize that there is a limit to the inclusion of care pupils in ordinary education? Will the Secretary of State invest in small classes and extra guidance? And finally, will the Secretary of State continue his propaganda talk or will he seek support from teachers, parents and directors?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. It is nice to read in the report to which Mrs Siderius refers that the basic principle of appropriate education in education is widely shared. That is a good thing, because in the Netherlands we have too easily directed children with whom something was going on, but to special education. Appropriate education is based on the principle that it is good to see if you can find a place in the neighborhood for children who need extra care, so that they have boyfriends and girlfriends in the street in which they live. At the same time, teachers are asked whether they find it complicated to deal with children who need extra care. Their answer to that is yes, and that does not surprise me either, because it is quite complicated. This is also in line with the view we had earlier and that we have already shared in committee: there is a lot of work to be done to ensure that appropriate education is a success. How do we do that? For example, by ensuring that schools that consciously choose to bring in more children from special education who need care also receive money for that, so that they can provide support in those classes and in those schools. This can be done by reducing the classes, for example, but many schools choose to do something outside the class. If it gets too much for a teacher or for a child, then he can do something outside. In the same newspaper, in the AD, there was also a very good example. It was about impulse classes at a school. That is where it happens very well and to the full satisfaction of teachers, parents and children.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-5.u3	I have to say that the Secretary of State's propaganda machine is still in full swing. The research shows that teachers are very negative about the introduction of appropriate education. Then you cannot sell here that teachers find it a bit difficult to deal with students with learning disadvantages or behavioural problems. If the Secretary of State says here that extra money should come along and that the classes should be smaller, then that is exactly what comes out of the investigation, but when will the Secretary of State come up with money to reduce the classes and to organize additional support and guidance? It's not the first time the Secretary of State has been warned. Last year the SP presented a report with exactly the same results. My question to this Secretary of State is: when are you going to take the field of education seriously? When are you gonna talk to these teachers? When do you make sure that the classes get smaller, that there will be more support and guidance in the classroom?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-5.u4	I take this issue and education very seriously with the vast majority of the spokesmen in the field of education. With appropriate education, we have removed the Chinese walls between special education on the one hand and regular education on the other. We need to get rid of all the bureaucracy surrounding the indication. As a result, we now make it possible for schools to choose much more. What do kids need? How exactly can we shape that? How can we organize it and how can we afford it? When I read the report, I see concerns with teachers in primary education, but part of it is also "I say it unkindly" some cold feet. When I look at the past year, I don't see a shift between special education and regular education, in the sense that there would now be bus loads of children going from special education to normal primary schools. I understand that there are concerns among teachers, because they see, of course, that there may be more children with care needs going to education in the future, but this goes hand in hand with the opportunities to organise and pay more support in those schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-5.u5	When we presented our report last year, the Secretary of State said we were too early. "It's just begun, what are you talking about?" The Secretary of State said this morning that the system still needs to get to full maturity. And now all of a sudden, teachers have cold feet. It shouldn't get any weirder. Signal after signal issued, alarm after alarm ring that goes off, but the Secretary of State just ignores it. He should be happy that there are no bus loads from special education to regular education. Where are these kids? These are mainly autistic and gifted children. They're all at home, because they can't go to special education anymore, and they fall out prematurely in mainstream education. That's really not something to be proud of. I regret that this Secretary of State is on a collision course. He drives a blindfold in the wrong direction on the highway, making real accidents.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-5.u6	I have heard very few questions in Mrs Siderius' last contribution. But I think it is no more than a testament to good decency that we are looking at whether children with certain physical and/or mental disabilities or mild behavioural problems who have additional care and support are being guided not automatically but towards special education, but also to see if they can just find a school nearby. To make this possible, schools can choose to use money that previously went towards special education more in regular education. I think that's a big good.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-5.u7	Teaching is what you do from the heart. Then you want to give every child the attention it deserves. Surely it is worrying that 70% of teachers indicate that they have not had sufficient training, while 80% need more hands in the classroom? I therefore have three questions. How is it that this is perceived as a cut by the teachers, when no euro is being cut? Where's the money? How can we ensure that the money actually gets into the classroom, through more hands in the classroom and further training of the teachers who are already in front of the classroom? What are teachers actually going to experience in class next year?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-5.u8	Mrs Ypma asks how it is possible that everyone sees this as a cutback. That is also because there are parties, not least Mrs Siderius's party, which every time call for austerity. There is a lot of noise on the line, so it is our job to say every time: this is not a cut-off, but to clean up a lot of bureaucracy to make more customization possible. What are we going to do to make teachers feel more supported towards the future? This can be done through training, among other things. I am very happy to see that we have had a successful programme in the framework of the teacher grant for years. Last year there were 4,000 awards again. More than half of them go to teachers who do a master's programme SEN, a master's programme that is based on how you deal with students who need more care. We are very much in the process of educating large numbers of teachers. What are teachers going to notice next year? That depends very much on the choices made in the partnerships. If even next year such a partnership is chosen to leave it as it is, about the same number of pupils going to special education and about the same number of pupils going to regular education, then it may be that not much changes in regular education. But if a shift is chosen, in my view it will have to go hand in hand with extra money and extra support in those regular primary schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-5.u9	The comparison with the pgb-drama insists: something that is originally a good idea appears to fail in the execution. That's a conclusion I'm afraid I have to draw. I'm really worried about this. It is not even a SP study, but a completely objective study which shows that 60% of teachers have great difficulty with it. I understand that, too, if you get extra care students in big classes and you don't get enough money for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-5.u10	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-5.u11	I really think the Secretary of State is taking this far too laconically. If he's got a little courage, he's really gonna do something now. Does he agree with D66 that this situation is unacceptable and calls for immediate measures both in the area of teacher support and in the area of reducing classes?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-5.u12	I live on the assumption that we have talked about this recently in committee. At that time Mr Van Meenen and I fully agreed that the support of teachers with additional training and the way in which appropriate education takes shape in practice leads to a lot of hope and optimism, precisely because there is more room for schools to make these considerations and choices now. I think we should continue along this road. This means extra commitment to skills and knowledge among teachers, for example in training, but also to the guidance of novice teachers. We see that they often find it very difficult to deal with this kind of thing in class. We just have to keep doing that. At the same time, we need to show what opportunities there are for schools to organise this properly. I just mentioned the impulse class, a fantastic example that is also written about in the Algemeen Dagblad, but I see a lot of variants in the country. I think it's my job to show how schools shape that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-5.u13	Many parents with children who need extra care are concerned about the appropriate education. Today's research by the AD shows that teachers are also explicitly concerned about whether they can still give the right attention to the regular students, who do not need extra care. Can the Secretary of State reflect on this? How can he reassure the educational field and ensure that these pupils continue to receive sufficient attention?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-5.u14	That is a very good question from Mr Rog. This starts, of course, with the observation that the introduction of appropriate education is not a reduction. This means that for all pupils in the Netherlands the same money remains available to those who need care and those who do not need care. In fact, cutting away a great deal of bureaucracy would make it possible to work more efficiently and to ensure that much more of that money goes into the classroom. I can see the care of teachers. They wonder whether, in addition to the many pupils they already have in their classrooms, they also receive students with behavioural problems or development questions, and what is the opposite. What I can say to those teachers and to the parents of students is that if a school consciously chooses to do so, it always goes hand in hand with the use of extra money to organize extra guidance at that school. That's the beauty of appropriate education.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-5.u15	Back to the core: appropriate education was mainly introduced in view of the importance of the pupils, both those who need appropriate education and additional support and those who do not need it. So in the message in the AD I don't read any criticism of the idea as such. However, after a year of running there is incredibly much concern about its elaboration. In concrete terms, my question, which is contained in a somewhat different scale from that of my colleagues, is what the Secretary of State is going to do to respond actively to this concern, so that hopefully that concern will be removed. Three more care students in a class is really too much.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-5.u16	I think it is important to note in this study that last year, the first year, appropriate education in schools and in the classroom has been developed. We do not really see a shift between special education and primary education, despite that possibility. In the future, that might change, and maybe that's what we all want. That is the idea of appropriate education. This development also opens up the possibility of using the savings that then occur in the special education system, the money that we do not spend there, in mainstream education. This allows you to organize extra hands in the classroom or an internal supervisor, so that you can take a child out of the classroom when it gets too busy and give it a one-on-one guidance, while the other children can go on quietly. Those are ways of dealing with it. I think it is my job to show education much more what opportunities and opportunities appropriate education offers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-5.u17	It's been years since I was allowed to treat the Law of appropriate education in the First Chamber. It is creaking and squeaky accepted in the First Chamber and wallpapered with large motions, but the objections that existed widely now also emerge from the investigation. I think the Secretary of State agrees with me that it is a pile of risks. Can these kids get grounded in those classes? Won't the kids who lead the way get bored? Doesn't it encourage bullying? And, most importantly, can the teachers handle it? Can the Secretary of State not comment a little more specifically on this problem of acceptance? What's he gonna do about this? I feel like he's gonna be on the brakes right now, and I don't think that's necessary. He's got to do that on the race bike, but he's got to tell us how he's gonna handle the investigation right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-5.u18	What helps is that we all embrace the basic principle of appropriate education. If we say that it is important that children who need some extra care or have small problems are not automatically directed to special education, as happened in the past. Therefore, in the Netherlands we have education in which relatively many children are in separate schools, where they sometimes have to go in vans. To be honest, I find it rather disappointing that I do not find an ally in the Socialist Party to make a move towards much more inclusive education, where children who need some help, some extra care, simply find a place in a regular school. This will now be possible with appropriate education. We can also pay for this because we are removing the financial divisions between special and regular education. I fully agree with you that there is still a great deal to be done in supporting individual teachers, in better telling the story and in carefully growing towards that tilting. But let's be allies.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-5.u19	On a study like this by DUO and the General Dagblad you can react in two ways. You can play down the results a little bit by saying that it's all new, that we still have to get used to it, but we just have to move on. Or you pick up the research and engage in an open conversation with teachers and executives to discuss the problems they see with open sight. Madam President, I would like to ask the Secretary of State to do just that. Take these people seriously. Of course you stand for appropriate education, but take the problems they experience seriously. Talk to them. Are you prepared to do so in the short term with this investigation in hand?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-5.u20	I am fully prepared to do so. In fact, Mr Voordewind is faking...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-5.u21	Mr. Slob.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-5.u22	Sorry, Mr. Slob. Let's get to it and get to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-5.u23	Thank you for your answers and thanks for coming to the Chamber.
