ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-6.u1	Mr. Chairman. Every year, I get down on my knees in the budget handling of Security and Justice to pry a few tonnes extra for the fight against fraud. I do that with love, even though I have gotten quite a lot of knees. Combating fraud is simply extremely important. Then it's a bit acidic when in the meantime the millions run away from the same Ministry of Security and Justice. What am I saying? To be thrown away. What can be read in NRC last Saturday is unheard of. Still, I wasn't really surprised. Over and over again, I've asked about RADAR. For years I got the same answer: it's going really well. How is that possible? In my view, the Chamber is simply misinformed. The big question is: were both directors of Security and Justice themselves informed? What did anyone know about the situation in which the contract with Capgemini was terminated? What about the contract? How much has been paid to the company in total, both before and after 2012, including the purchase price that would be involved? I would like to get those figures, including as regards Sogeti and the hiring of externals. A total of 10 million in hire of external managers has been spent; 10 million in a few years. What exactly was done before that? How many people have walked around before that? What about the hiring of externals and the legal maximum rate we know for that? Finally, I would like to ask whether it is a common practice at the Ministry of Security and Justice to hire an expensive law firm to circumvent the internal advice of its own lawyer in the field of security and justice. If not, what consequences does this have for the misconduct of the Ministry's official summit?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Gesthuizen has asked many questions and I will try to answer them as much as possible within the next two minutes. The first question concerns the system, RADAR. Mrs. Gesthuizen asks if it's not working properly. There's been a lot of changes. RADAR is working well right now. We have also had this tested externally by the SIG. The system works and the applications are good. Perhaps more importantly, the chain partners, for example, the D.A., are satisfied. Perhaps even more importantly, because of the increasing number of alerts it produces, the system is increasingly helping us to catch fraudulent criminals. In the article it emerged that there would be secret stuff. I would like to clarify the substance of this. Public procurement means that the detailed functioning of a system is made public. The system is aimed at getting a picture of criminals. Of course, you don't want them to be wiser than they are and you don't want them to be able to change their behavior. Then it's not so crazy that you don't want to disclose the information about the security measures, because then they could be bypassed. The information in the system is also classified departmentally confidentially. This relates only to an open invitation to tender where all information must be provided. The choice of what is called a "secret tender" is therefore not strange. In addition, it's called a secret tender, but there's nothing secret about it. The tender was published in the Official Journal of the European Communities. That intention has been made public and no objection has been expressed. On 18 November 2014, the Chamber was informed in a letter and on 20 November 2014 in the established written consultations. Thus, the disclosure element was corresponding to the Court, but it is also indicated that the costs had increased to 15 million up to 2012. That doesn't make it more fun, but less secret or sneaky. It's all shared with the room. Mrs Gesthuizen asks very detailed questions about the number of FTE hired. I don't have the answer to that here. In this context, she asked a question about the beaming standard. In turn, this standard leads to a rate of €225 per hour excluding VAT. In this process, the highest paid rate has been €204 per hour including VAT. So that's within the norm.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-6.u3	Mr. Chairman. I was afraid of this. There doesn't seem to be much going on. I can't believe I'm hearing this. I'll just go straight to the last point. I would like the Chamber to be fully informed about how much it has cost and how many people have been running around for the EUR 10 million in a few years. In the case of business sensitive information, the Chamber may be informed confidentially. Then about the secret stuff. Isn't it true that Sogeti was the only one invited to get that job secretly? Isn't it true that Sogeti was also the company that helped the ministry write the cutlery? So the company wrote down how to put that job on the market. It said then that it would no longer compete for that task, but a few years later it still got that job. That would be really weird. In my opinion, the information in the NRC is largely the result of public hearings by the Elias Committee. Is the point made in the article that the internal lawyer of Security and Justice has said that this is not and cannot be awarded? The Secretary of State and the Minister would not have received that advice at the time, because the official summit did not give them that advice. Only the expensive advice received from Stibbe that the officials were convenient would have been submitted to the Minister and the Secretary of State? Is this true?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-6.u4	I want to take away the impression that the Chamber would not have been informed about the costs. I have already said that the whole amount was mentioned on 20 November. It's not gonna be cheaper, but it's gonna be public. Mrs Gesthuizen has asked questions about a secret award. Something called a "secret tender" has been chosen, but in order to do so, you first make that tender public. That is therefore quite transparent. Then anyone in the market can object to that. That has happened zero times, while our experience is that very often there is an objection or at least a request for clarification from the market when you have to buy something or say something about a call for tenders in the Official Journal. That is not the case in this case. Sogeti was now very involved with other components, which they had acquired through a public tender and which also have links with this system. That is why, through the ultimately secret tender that was published, Sogeti was chosen to have this part carried out. Then I come to the question about the advice that would have been ignored. A corporate lawyer in a department can't do everything. To paint a picture: there are two people for an entire department. A department needs a lot of advice on a wide palette. It is therefore very common for us to turn to a law firm to act as a business lawyer on a particular file. However, the internal lawyers have also commented on this dossier. They've been taken into account, too. Of course, it is not unusual for different lawyers to give different weight to different arguments. In this case, this has also led to an additional discussion between the Secretary-General and the externally hired office which acted as a business lawyer on this file. The considerations have also been taken into account. In the end, all things considered, the decision was taken to arrive at a secret tender, which, once again, is not sneaky.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-6.u5	I just can't really believe it. I really can't believe we're being told that there's not that much going on. The problem is precisely with Sogeti's great involvement. That company had written along on the assignment that eventually it was going to carry out itself! Is that right? Two corporate lawyers certainly can't vet everything. However, this company lawyer would have done just that! This company lawyer would have said within the Ministry: don't do it this way, because there's a lot of things wrong with it; you can't go on like this. Is it true that this advice did not reach the heads of government who were waving the scepter there at the time? They should have made a good decision based on this information. Is it true that this information just didn't get to them, because the official summit kept it away?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-6.u6	I am not saying that nothing is going on, but I cannot ignore the fact that the facts are less exciting than the article suggested. I just want to correct the image. Mrs Gesthuizen pretends that there is a very bulky report that has been formally in line and that the documents would have been withheld somewhere by malicious officials. It's not like that. There's no such formal report submitted by the internal attorney. He wasn't the corporate lawyer on this file either. Internal objections have been raised. They've been taken into account, and they've led to additional conversations. In the end, a choice was made, also on the basis of all the arguments and legal advice. As I pointed out at the beginning, it is also not surprising, given the nature of the system, to proceed with a call for tenders which do not cover the entire infrastructure and architecture on the streets.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-6.u7	In recent years, we have wasted billions on ICT projects. We have had our own committee of inquiry which has drawn some very hard conclusions, including on procurement. A secret invitation to tender is then placed at the Ministry of V and J, against the advice of the internal house lawyer. My question to this Secretary of State is very simple. He says there's no such advice, or that this has never reached him, and that it's perfectly normal for the ministry to employ multiple law firms. Is he willing to make the opinion public and send it to the Chamber? Then the Chamber can read what the considerations of its own house lawyer were. Then we don't have to pretend this advice never existed. Send it to the Chamber so we can debate it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-6.u8	This also presupposes that there is a policy document somewhere, a formal report with an opinion. So there isn't, and that's why I can't send it. Nor is it the case that two corporate lawyers are on one file at the same time. You're looking at which files are hired externally. Then that law firm for that file is the corporate lawyer. We also have permanent lawyers working on other dossiers. They also give their opinion, which is taken into account and taken seriously. Eventually it is involved in the balancing, but that is another matter. However, I do not have a piece on this. It may be that someone has a piece of their own at home, but in the formal sense I have no advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-6.u9	Hundreds of millions have ended up in the sewers due to ICT failure and ICT stuff. In this one oral Question Time a question is asked twice about ICT failure, but the ruler says: mwah, it's all not that bad. I support D66's request and ask this Secretary of State to send an overview to the Chamber by section, Capgemini, Sogeti and other external hires, as Mrs Gesthuizen also asked. So we can see exactly what happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-6.u10	As far as I have that information, I'd like to send it. That's fine. The ICT dashboard also contains much more than I can report here. This has already been public in recent years during the trial and has been shared with the Chamber. For me, the discussion on the opinion is separate from the discussion on whether this was the best-executed or most efficient ICT project of the government. I'm not gonna let you know. The Chamber has carried out extensive investigations into this. It is also being dealt with. Soon we will have an agency that will be watching this on these kinds of trajectories, if they take place now. That's a big improvement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-6.u11	I don't like the fact that every policy piece is sent to the Chamber. We're not policy makers here. We'll check the cabinet. I think it is a good way to send a letter to the Chamber on this subject. We have now had Question Time, but there are still a few questions in the air. I would rather have a letter in which the cabinet brings out a few things than that the Chamber gets every receipt or piece, because we cannot judge that properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-6.u12	Mr Recourt wants a letter. I give the floor to Secretary of State Dijkhoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-6.u13	I will include the commitments I made earlier in a letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-6.u14	Mrs Keijzer, you can put the second question on behalf of the CDA group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-6.u15	I propose that the Registrar take an inventory of the questions that we can take with us for an answer. I have another question for the Secretary of State. As has just been said, many questions have been raised today. Isn't it wise now to go through the whole cabinet and I know I'm talking to the newest asset in the cabinet right now, to keep the whole ICT operation under review? It is a constant repetition of hundreds of millions of costs for taxpayers who do not get anywhere with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-6.u16	I'll give the floor to the Secretary of State first. I'll respond to your other request.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-6.u17	We have all noted that there is enough going on with these kinds of routes. The Chamber has also carried out extensive research on this subject under the direction of Mr Elias. Advice has been issued on what the cabinet has responded to and what has been acted upon. I leave that to the first person in charge in this area. It is also a repetition of moves because we are constantly looking at routes that have also been looked at by the Elias Committee and run during that period. It's not a new trajectory. The Chamber has already been informed of the increase in costs. It is no less bad because of that; it is less new.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-6.u18	The Secretary of State has agreed to send a letter to the Chamber. Mrs Keijzer has indicated that she has additional questions which she would like answered in the letter. I propose that the Secretary of State should take account of the fact that there will still be additions to the letter through the Permanent Chambers Committee. This continues through the Permanent Chambers Committee. Mrs Keijzer, you must bring this up there yourself. This is not an arrangement of activities. That concludes today's oral Question Time. We're gonna call for the votes.
