ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-6.u1	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank all the spokesmen for their interesting contribution to this debate. I am particularly grateful to the speakers who have already expressed their support for this proposal. Of course, that's a good start. However, some speakers have spoken a little more critically. Of course, I would like to try to convince them of the need and the correctness of our bill. I have the floor on behalf of the co-initiators, Mrs Van Ark, Mrs Yücel, Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mr Klaver, who unfortunately had to leave early. Let me begin by saying that it is very honorable for me to be able to do this. In the spirit of your recently tragically deceased former colleague Willem Witteveen, I begin by saying that legislation is all too often instrumental. Changes to such laws often mean turning a number of buttons and tinkering with some additional instruments, because a certain part of the law did not work properly. However, legislation should first of all lay down what is right. It codifies law. Such a law is the General Law on Equal Treatment. A change to that law is at issue in this house today, not because there is a lot of case law because the law would not work properly, but because the single fact-finding structure in that law is considered not to be fair. At least, that is so experienced by large groups in society and by politics. It is not for nothing that we are sitting here as five parties which have been united on this issue for years, even in campaigning times. Legislation should also be sustainable, in the sense that a law should not be amended too quickly. There must have been clear changes in the legal concepts. Against this background, we can state that the present legislative proposal has not been rushed into being and that genuinely relevant social developments and changes in the legal position have taken place. I would therefore like to endorse what Mr De Graaf has said about this. Time has not stood still. The acceptance and importance of equal treatment of, for a moment, a modern term, "lhbt'ers," lesbians, gays, bis and transgenders has increased in society. I also liked the way in which Mr Meijer expressed his personal experiences with the spirit of the past. The single-fact construction came into force more than 20 years ago, in 1994, in the law. Anyone who recreates the pieces from that time can't escape the impression that this single fact construction probably wouldn't have eternal life. The General Law on Equal Treatment is not an instrumental law but a law of principle. He's about fundamental rights, they can collide and barn. This inevitably means that this law has been given the character of a compromise in some respects. There's nothing wrong with that in itself. A good compromise can last for years, but the single-fact construction was a bad compromise in the sense that it had its existence because it deliberately kept its consequences unclear. This concerns in particular the concept that is often mentioned in one breath with the single-fact structure, namely the so-called 'additional circumstances'. Moreover, these additional circumstances do not appear in the law itself. It was the cabinet itself that made the choice to introduce this concept during the examination of the legislative proposal. It is therefore not surprising that the single-fact structure soon came under attack from organisations that are committed to the position of sexual minorities, such as the COC, and later also the European Commission and the then Committee on Equal Treatment, which we now know as the College of Human Rights. There was also criticism from the Council of Europe. However, it took until 2010 for my party colleague Boris van der Ham and colleagues from the PvdA, the VVD, the SP and GroenLinks to submit an initiative bill. In the meantime we are four and a half years further. Nor has the handling of this bill taken place in a hurry. We have listened carefully to the Council of State. He said that there was definitely more to it than simply deleting the words 'the single fact', especially if we want to implement the European directive properly. A number of speakers also reminded us that this led to a thorough revision of the legislative proposal and the explanatory statement. Our answer to Mr Kuiper's question as to why we have not re-submitted the amended legislative proposal to the Council of State for its opinion is because we have done so on several occasions. We have also taken into account the opinion of the Council of State. We also agreed with the House of Representatives of the Christian Union to include in the legislative proposal the concept of good faith and loyalty, despite the fact that we ourselves did not consider it necessary. I shall come back to this later in detail, partly on the basis of a question put by Mr De Graaf. For the record, I repeat the three reasons for tabling this bill. The initiators want to delete the single-fact structure, to cancel it, because it constitutes an excessive infringement of the principle of non-discrimination. Conditions which, in themselves, may not be sufficient grounds for action in the field of labour law, dismissal or recruitment seem to be justified in conjunction with sexual orientation. In any case, this leads to uncertainty and legal uncertainty. It also contains an offensive reasoning. In combination with homosexuality, so-called "additional circumstances" can be a reason to fire someone and not in combination with heterosexuality. That is a dark cloud that has remained above the General Law on equal treatment. A second reason for tabling this bill is that the law needs to be clearer. Among other things, the law is unclear with regard to the "single facts" and the "additional circumstances." However, the proposers have also chosen to take equal treatment as the basis for the system of the General Law when it comes to direct and indirect discrimination. A third reason is that we have chosen to implement the European directive. The current text does not meet this requirement. These are the reasons why the proposers have considered discussing this bill in the Upper House today. It also follows from the above that the number of court cases and their outcome in the view of the initiators are not a good measure of the need for this legislative proposal. I am also responding to a comment made by Mrs Van Bijsterveld. In the explanatory statement, we also stated that it is quite possible that there are reasons why there is little case law. Do gay teachers, for example, choose not to work in particular education? Is there much to be done? Don't people dare to discuss it? We simply don't know. That does not alter the fact that there can be a lot of fear among pupils and staff who struggle with their mode. We also endorse what Mr Schouwenaar said about this, namely that it is difficult to get out of the closet and that it sometimes feels like a sword is floating over the head. We also feel strengthened by the letter sent to your Chamber by the LCC Plus organizations. As they themselves so strikingly put it in their letter, there would be unbearable tension. Their fear is relevant to us. It is about how safe they feel at their school or in the organisation where they work. This is not about the number of times that a conflict has been brought to the fore in law. That is the ambition and drive of the proposers to present this proposal. We would like to take this opportunity to explain the proposal again. What are the building blocks, the main lines of our proposal? The basic principle is equal treatment, non-discrimination. Institutions can make direct distinctions on the basis of religion, philosophy or political orientation, but this should never lead to direct discrimination on other grounds, namely sexual orientation, bourgeois status, race, gender and nationality. Another element of our proposal is the question of what is justified for professional requirements. They must be relevant to the professional activity. That is why we have said that it must be a legitimate requirement. This must follow from the basis of a school or institution. Importantly, in so doing, we have included an extra strict condition. It should not go beyond what is appropriate given the attitude of good faith and loyalty to the basis. In addition, as I have just said, the indirect distinction applies. You can only make indirect distinctions if the objective is real and the means are appropriate and necessary. Those are the building blocks of our proposal. Mrs Van Bijsterveld has distilled further elements from the parliamentary debate. She asked if we could confirm the accuracy of that. Our answer to that is yes. We note, however, that in adding the attitude of good faith and loyalty, we did not simply adopt the opinion of the Council of State. We were concerned with the correct and full implementation of the European directive. Later in my speech, I will dwell on this in detail, as several questions have been asked, for example by Mr Schouwenaar and Mr De Graaf. I told Mrs Van Bijsterveld about the above as a kick-off. Next, the question is: I think it is very relevant to what are the changes that the legislative proposal is making. What are the concrete handles, Mr Koole asked. What practical measures are available to the court to arrive at a well-founded ruling? The added value of our proposal is that it is clearer than the current single-fact structure. That's what it is in the application of terminology. We use a number of essential concepts that are clear to the judge and with which he already has experience. Those concepts are "direct and indirect distinction," "justice requirement," a "behaviour of good faith and loyalty" and a "legitimate purpose, appropriate and necessary." I would like to dwell on these concepts and explain why they are concrete handles for the courts and they are in line with current practice. The first concrete handle before the courts is the direct and indirect distinction. We'll take advantage of that. The single fact construction was actually a bit of a weird duck in the bite. It, as it were, withdrew from the terminology of the General Law on Equal Treatment. We're correcting that now. The judge knows what to do with this; it is also part of the rest of the General Law on Equal Treatment. The second handle is the so-called justified appeal requirement. This is also stated in the General Law on Equal Treatment. It's an important concrete handle for the judge. As I have just pointed out, what is justified must actually stem from the basis of an institution. So that's the second concrete handle for a judge. The third handle relates to the attitude of good faith and loyalty. This term also comes from the European directive. For this reason, the applicants have chosen to record it. The meaning of the term is mainly that it sets a limit to what you may require from an employee or applicant. The limit is, in our view, where the obligation already in force for workers to behave like a good worker ends. In reply to Mr De Graaf's question, I will deal with this later. This also applies to the fact that it is a well-known area for the courts. About the Civil Code and behaving like a good employee is sufficient case law. The fourth handle is a legitimate objective that is appropriate and necessary. We have chosen to make the indirect distinction applicable. This too is part of the General Law on Equal Treatment. As I have just said, the single fact-finding structure excluded itself from the terminology of the General Law on Equal Treatment. So we're giving the judge concrete handles. We are now working on the legal framework. We have just indicated that the framework needs to be clarified. We also want it to be less hurtful. In it, it is up to the court to reach a review and judgment, on the basis of all the information available and on the basis of the concrete handles. Mr Meijer asked whether we agreed with him that there would continue to be differences of opinion even after the legislative amendment and that the outcome of the conflicts would be different from now on. First of all, let me say that I hope that there will be fewer conflicts, because the law will become clearer for employees, for students, for school boards and for the administration of institutions. However, I do not know how that is going to work out. As has been suggested a few times, there is little case law on this. So you can't hold it against anything or compare it to anything. We must wait and see what the outcome of the conflicts will be in practice. Mr De Lange also felt that, after the adoption of the bill, the conflict would remain high. Mr Schouwenaar wondered whether there would be new points of discussion after all. He mentioned four, suggesting that he doesn't really need to get an answer. While I am in your midst, I see the opportunity to do my best to remove any uncertainties and do everything possible. I shall therefore be allowed to dwell a little longer on Mr Schouwenaar's contribution and the four questions he has asked. His first question was whether the law addresses employers, or at least employees. The answer to this question is simple: the General Law on Equal Treatment is addressed to the employer. He indicates when an employer may make a distinction and when not. Of course, the outcome of this may be a problem for the employee. It can have an impact, for example on the outcome of an application procedure. However, the general law on equal treatment is addressed to the employer. Mr Schouwenaar's second question is more difficult to answer. This is about respecting and endorsing the foundation of an institution, and whether that is enough. Why is that so hard? We're here today as legislator, not as judge. We are dealing with the legal framework. It is up to the court to reach a judgment and a good decision, on the basis of the concrete guidelines, if it is adopted, the law and, of course, all factual circumstances. It is therefore very difficult to consider what will happen in a specific situation. I would like to take up the challenge of saying a few things about it in general. In the Netherlands there is a lot of diversity in terms of religions and foundations. It varies from orthodox to liberal. There's still a lot in there. That's what I'm saying while I'm looking at it with neutrality. Accepting and respecting a basis are only two things that school staff sometimes ask for. There are many more flavors. Let us subscribe to a basis that relates only to belief. It is therefore a question of endorsing the basis by which we are asked to accept a belief. It's allowed. That is the direct distinction on the basis of religion, and that is allowed. Let's take it a step further. What if it's about living rules? If they are very concrete, there is a greater chance of direct discrimination on the basis of religion or bourgeois status. If the rules of life that one has to subscribe to become more abstract and general, there is a greater likelihood of indirect discrimination on the basis of religion or sexual orientation. We have indicated that this can only be done if the objective is legitimate and the means are appropriate and necessary. I hope that in this way I have given a good answer to the question on this subject, looking at the scope of the legislator in order to be able to express this in a general sense. Mr Schouwenaar's third question is whether the term 'good faith and loyalty' refers only to the work situation or also to private life. More questions have been asked about that. We have always taken the view that, as far as case law is concerned, the term 'good worker status' in the Civil Code must be taken into account. There it appears that good employeeship can also extend to private behaviour under circumstances. We assume that there are limits to this, especially if the fundamental rights of an employee are at stake. Mr De Graaf asks whether we should not have left that out. Could that good faith and loyalty not be explained more broadly in relation to good employment? I welcome that question, because I now have a chance to give a clear response to it. Consider the term "good employment" in the Civil Code as a counterpart to what our proposal states, namely that it should not go beyond what is appropriate, given the attitude of good faith and loyalty to the basis. That's the opposite of each other. I would like to think a little bit more about it, also in view of the structure of the proposal. Good faith and loyalty are not central to our bill. We have said: direct distinction on the basis of religion, philosophy of life and political mind, provided that this does not lead to direct discrimination on other grounds, such as sexual orientation and bourgeois status. We have also indicated that there must be a legitimate professional requirement. There must be an essential, legitimate and justified professional requirement. So you can't just make all kinds of demands on employees. It has to be relevant. You also have to look at the context in which it takes place. You should also look at the professional activity. We have placed the passage below that this should not go beyond what is appropriate, given the attitude of good faith and loyalty. In other words, the question of whether there is a legitimate professional requirement must also be examined as to whether the employee is not being asked too much in terms of loyalty, or whether the employee's loyalty is not being overused. So it's an extra limit. We have chosen to do so from that point of view and also to comply with the European directive.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-6.u2	The connection with the terminology of the European directive is an argument that I can understand. But in view of the text in the documents that the proposers see the term "good faith and loyalty" as a tautology that has meaning within the concept of "good employment" I wonder why the term "good employment" is not used. Now it seems as if it is a special provision in the context of this law, which may lead to a different kind of review by the court than when it is judged by good employment. There's a bit of my hesitation, a little, there's a hesitation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-6.u3	Thank you for that question. We have chosen to take over the terminology from the European directive. That was important to us. Otherwise you get a lot of different terms over and over again. Mr De Graaf asks if there is anything else in it than when you look at the Civil Code and the term "good employeeship." No, that's not the case. We have chosen to do so, also in view of the discussion with the Council of State. The Council of State gave it an extension. That was an additional reason for us to include it in this way, to indicate that we see it as a limit.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-6.u4	Then it is important, I hope, that this is widely supported in this Chamber, and that what Mrs Bergkamp has just said is a good interpretation. It's just nothing but good employeeship. This should be in line with the normal assessment of what is good employment and should not, in any other way, mean an extension.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-6.u5	The answer to that is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-6.u6	I doubted whether I would ask the question, because that clarity should not be destroyed. Mr De Graaf spoke of a tautology. Mrs Bergkamp spoke of a counter-pool. I'm trying to reconcile this. Is he aware that the concept of "good workership" is primarily concerned with what an employer should do and that the concept of "good faith and loyalty" shows the opposite, namely that an intervention should not go beyond what is necessary in the context of good faith and loyalty? Is there the contradiction of the concepts in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-6.u7	I have just indicated, in reply to Mr De Graaf's question, that the Civil Code refers to good employment. That is also a flexible standard. Judges have experience with that, too. We have chosen to include the term 'not going beyond what is appropriate, given the attitude of good faith and loyalty on the basis' in order to comply with the European directive, but also to create an additional demarcation for what you as an employer can ask of an employee. It's okay for an employer to ask for a few things. There must be a legitimate professional requirement, but you must not overrequire loyalty. I hope that I have answered Mrs De Boer's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-6.u8	It's not quite clear to me. Ms Bergkamp stated that the concept of good faith and loyalty on the basis was taken over from the European directive. I can imagine that this leads to a different type of interview in an interview than when you talk about good employeeship. Then it's about professionalism, how you do your job and what that all means. However, the other element should also be able to get the full pound in a job interview. What does it mean for the applicant to come and apply to this institution, to support the foundation and to be loyal and loyal to it, whatever that means? That's a separate business, isn't it? Mrs Bergkamp now locks all this up within good employeeship, but that does not make it clear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-6.u9	It's no different, it's not anymore. When you look at the demands you may make on the employee, the question arises as to how far those demands go. We have chosen to include it, even after a suggestion from the Christian Union Group in the House of Representatives, which attached great importance to the inclusion of it. We thought it was important to give it the explanation that the European directive also gives it. The European directive indicates that it is an additional limit. If Mr Kuiper asks me what I understand by that, I say, for the sake of clarity and clarity, that this is what the Civil Code indicates about good employment. That's a language that judges are also familiar with. It is also a language with which a lot of experience has already been gained and what case law is about. It's no more or less. It is about good employeeship, as stated in the Civil Code, even when it comes to borders. I can't be any clearer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-6.u10	A different type of interview takes place during an application. The question then is what a basis means. The applicant's attitude to the basis therefore plays a role. That's a different type of conversation than a conversation about what good employeeship is. This has to do with professional qualifications, professional attitudes and that sort of thing. You should also be able to talk about what binds you to identity.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-6.u11	I get that question. When this is incorporated into the law, it is up to the schools themselves to decide how these conversations are going. They have the freedom to conduct these conversations in a certain way. The question is where are the limits that you are allowed to set as an employer. That is what we are saying: they end up where there is an existing obligation, namely good employment. How these talks are carried out in practice is the responsibility of the schools themselves. I am confident that, if the legislative proposal is adopted, the right impetus can be given in this respect to clarify with respect for each other and in good consultation, also in the light of what I have already said about this. I'll continue my plea. I come to Mr Schouwenaar's fourth question as to whether there could be a material change in the ranking of fundamental rights and whether this could possibly be contrary to the Constitution. Mr Kuiper has also asked many questions about this. I shall come back to that in more detail later. The Constitution refers to side-casting. There is therefore no hierarchy of fundamental rights. We're dealing with a bill now. Of course, there may be conflicting or sanding of fundamental rights, but ultimately it is up to the court to look at how something is going to work out on the basis of all the information and with the concrete handles. It's not an exact science. When we talk about fundamental rights, we do not know exactly what these rights are and what they will be like in the future. Indeed, there is little case law. So I can't say anything exactly about it. However, I have made a number of qualitative comments on this. My expectation is not that there will be a different order of rights. I think it's good to evaluate this law, to see how it's gonna work out in the end. Again, it is not an exact science and there is little case law, so we will have to wait and see what happens in practice. I think it would be very good to evaluate that. That brings me to the speeches made by Mr Kuiper and Mr Holdijk. If I let it work well on me, time is always shorter than you expect in advance. Mr Kuiper asked me to quote: 'to fully recognise the freedom of religion, including views on religious praxis'. Let me say that we recognise that in some cases freedom of religion, education and association must outweigh the right to equal treatment, but sometimes it will be the other way round. The bill is based on this balance sheet. I have made it very clear that institutions make a distinction on the basis of religion or philosophy. The problem is indeed in the beliefs, for example if it leads to direct discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation or bourgeois status. You can't do that. Other regulations in this area would simply be contrary to European directives. I would like to contradict the fact that we have not given sufficient consideration to the fundamental rights of groups and that we have only dealt with the fundamental rights of individuals. The legislative proposal is based on the right of the administration of an institution to determine the basis of the institution itself. It follows what the distinctive distinguishing things are. That's not unlimited. That's what the story's about today. A school can make a distinction. A board may lay down its basis. But what you can ask of employees is limited. I have just referred to a justified requirement for a profession. This should not go beyond what is appropriate, given the attitude of good faith and loyalty to the foundation. The question of whether we are in breach of Article 23 of the Constitution and, in particular, of the freedom of appointment of teachers has essentially been answered in the drafting of the General Law on equal treatment. Freedom of education does not preclude the application of general legal requirements. This includes the General Law on Equal Treatment. Mr Kuiper finally came to the view that a conflict settlement should belong only to the courts. That again runs counter to Mr Schouwenaar's question as to whether the bill does not leave too much to the judge. The truth is really in the middle here. I get it, though. Among other things, it has been asked whether we should not codify the answer to a number of foreseeable points of discussion in the law. Mrs De Boer also indicated a direction in her speech. I understand that very well. A number of points of discussion have been mentioned. While we are here, I see that as an opportunity to give some guidance. These are mainly cases of indirect discrimination. At that point, the judge has the most room. You can then think of questions like: may an employer require his staff not to be a member of an IBT organisation, such as the COC or a Christian organisation? Can an employer expect his staff not to participate in the Canal Parade for which the draw was by the way two days ago? Can you expect students not to have a talk about homosexuality? Can you expect students not to set up a gay-straight alliance? That is a partnership between homosexual and heterosexual students to make a fist against discrimination. Let me be clear about that. We cannot imagine that such forms of indirect discrimination can be appropriate and necessary on the basis of sexual orientation, given the constitutional freedoms of those concerned. Let me use this to guide this discussion. Otherwise, it lies in making direct distinctions. I thought Mrs De Boer put it very nicely: all those things that are part of shaping your sexual orientation. It remains a distinct term, "your sexual orientation," but let me illustrate it with a few concrete examples. It's about behavior like the hand-in-hand of two men. Or an open love relationship between two women. Indeed, they cannot be grounds for dismissal, expulsion or refusal. That would be a direct distinction on the basis of sexual orientation. The same applies to sending transgender pupils out of school. That would be a direct distinction based on gender. It's against the law. I fully agree with Mrs De Boer that gender-based discrimination includes discrimination on the grounds of transsexuality. Let me illustrate with these examples how we, as proposers, look at this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-6.u12	For my understanding, I have direct and indirect distinctions with these terms. It has been said that they would also offer handles for the judge. I was listening to the debate and wondering what exactly it is. Direct discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation should not be allowed; that is prohibited. You could say, if you put it so explicitly, that indirect discrimination is clearly permitted in a certain way. Indirect distinction could be to prohibit a school from participating in the Canal Parade or writing a thesis or to hold a lecture on homosexuality. It is said that it is not appropriate or necessary. Is not the consequence of the debate that, at least according to the authors, any distinction between direct or indirect debt securities is undesirable?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-6.u13	If you look at the General Law on Equal Treatment, you can see that there are two different systems. First of all, there is the direct distinction. You yourself indicated that religion, philosophy or political orientation should not lead to direct discrimination on another ground. That's clip-and-ready. When it comes to indirect discrimination, the judge has more room. We have adopted this system because it fits in with the General Law on Equal Treatment. There are a number of strict conditions. The purpose must be legitimate. The resources must be appropriate and necessary. We cannot codify all kinds of examples in the law. Then it would be infinite. That's life. That's how life works. On the basis of a number of examples, we have tried to illustrate that, in our view, it is inconceivable that a judge should consider that this means, the prohibition, is necessary when something is banned, such as the speech of a child at school. It also looks at the fundamental rights that people have, such as freedom of association, freedom of expression and the freedom to have a private life.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-6.u14	I understand you're in line with that system. Still, I have one more question. You mention examples of cases where there is "unappropriate and necessary" and you expect the judge to give a ruling according to that line. Are there any examples at all in which the distinction between sexual orientation is, in one way or another, legitimate, albeit indirectly?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-6.u15	That's what we're gonna see in practice. There is no case law on that. The single fact construction was a bit of a strange duck in the bite when it comes to terminology. We're gonna see it. We have also said that one of the concrete measures before the courts is direct discrimination and indirect discrimination. We are going to see in practice which examples will come along. However, I thought it was important to give some colour to the debate, by mentioning things that we co-sponsors say: that certainly does not seem to us to be a necessary requirement that you can impose. Mr. Chairman. I'm going to ask some questions. Mr Meijer in particular has asked a lot of questions about developments in particular education. He talked about the development that originally went through religious schools to schools that are generally accessible. He raised the question whether the distinction between public and special education is largely outdated. Perhaps the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations will be able to comment on this later. I do not think it is my position to enter into this discussion; it is about the single fact today. Mr Meijer also indicated that there would be so-called "closed schools." He wanted to know whether the initiators shared his view that the proposed legislative amendment would be less urgent if it only affected such homogeneous, highly convinced groups. In his view, it is precisely in the vast category of generally accessible institutions with a confessional administration that clashes arise about the impairment of equal treatment. This doesn't really match the image we have. Most conflicts arise in Orthodox schools and other orthodox religious institutions. They also make greater use of their right to make distinctions on the basis of religion both with regard to staff and with regard to pupils. It's okay. For example, they may require a staff member to be a compassionate member of a particular church society. That is an allowed form of direct discrimination on the basis of religion. However, this should not lead to direct discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation and marital status. An indirect distinction may only be made if a means is appropriate and necessary. Moreover, we recognize the development of particularly accessible schools which Mr Meijer sketches. However, in the present legislative proposal, we can only assume the legal principle that the school's administration has the right to determine the school's basis. I am also saying this to Mr Holdijk of the SGP. The point is also how precise or straightforward that basis will be filled in in practice in the case of hiring staff and allowing pupils. This, of course, has implications for the question of what requirements a school may impose. A government that is consistent in maintaining the orthodox religious spirit may impose the appropriate requirements, provided that the distinction is limited to religion. However, the school cannot send a staff member home because it is going to divorce or live together, because that is a direct distinction on the basis of civil status. It is also not a strong case if a school has barely maintained the religious basis in practice and suddenly thinks it will. The Human Rights College uses established case law to assess whether a school has been consistent in the policy to be implemented. Mr Kops asked a question about the Islamic schools. Let me at least say that this bill treats all schools in the same way. So there is no difference between Islamic schools, Christian schools and Jewish schools. They too may make a distinction on the basis of religion, but they too must not make a distinction on the basis of sexual orientation. Mr Koffeman suggested that there could be an escape route for special schools, by applying Article 3 of the General Law on Equal Treatment. This article is about the legal relations within church societies. I don't think this article is meant to provide an escape route. It is limited to internal relations within church societies. If we were to tackle them or do something about the European directive on equal treatment in employment and occupation, we would have guaranteed problems with the European Commission.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-6.u16	It's not a suggestion I've come up with, but a suggestion that has been described quite extensively in the Reformatorisch Dagblad. People from Orthodox Christian circles wrote that you can make sure that the special schools come under the regime of the church society, which means that they no longer have to comply with the rules. My question was whether the initiators think this is a real option. Would it not be an undesirable way of working if schools had the opportunity to evade the regime we are trying to establish here today?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-6.u17	I find this a very interesting question. I think it is up to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations to consider this in greater detail. Our law focuses on the current institutions and structures. Perhaps, from his point of view, the Minister can give an adequate response to this question. At least it's an interesting point. Mr Kops and Mr Koffeman asked some questions about the creation of the single-fact construction. In essence, we have already responded to this in the explanatory memorandum to the legislative proposal. It was and is not clear enough for us, I say. Our legislative proposal, as I have just indicated, has a number of concrete tools and a clear conceptual framework that the judge can work with. We have also made the law less discriminatory and less offensive in the way it is formulated. I will end my speech with another reference to former senator Witteveen. He wrote about the law as a work of art. I don't want to say that our bill is a work of art. In view of the European directive, we would therefore be accused of plagiarism. However, it is a balanced proposal. It also evokes emotions. Among the initiators this is the emotion of justice and hopefully also of sustainability. It is, of course, important for our proposal to be adopted by the Supreme Court. We also hope that our proposal will enter into force soon. That is why the original initiators, Mrs Van Miltenburg, Mrs Klijnsma, Mrs Van Gent and Mr Van der Ham, whom I would like to mention here, will be extremely satisfied.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-6.u18	Mr. Chairman. First of all, of course, compliments to the initiators of D66, PvdA, GroenLinks, VVD and SP, and to the previous speaker for her answer to the questions asked to the initiators. Today, there is an initiative legislative proposal aimed at removing any ambiguity in the general law on equal treatment. This ambiguity has already led to many fundamental and emotional discussions. It is only a few words, namely 'the single fact of'. Furthermore, there are other changes to the law, but this is the most important part. The words "the single fact of" in the legal text suggest that there may be additional circumstances that, combined with the single fact that someone is gay, may lead to a ground for dismissal or non-acceptance for a particular position. It has never become clear what these additional circumstances could be exactly, and in all these twenty years exactly zero calls have been made for this single fact construction with success. However, it did lead to uncertainty, especially in homosexual teachers and pupils, but also in school administration. It is good that this ambiguity disappears. That is also stated in the government agreement of this cabinet. The initiative proposal also implements that part of the coalition agreement. It will not surprise Members that I have already given a positive opinion on this initiative proposal in the House of Representatives. I would now like to give Members that positive opinion. If a majority were to appear here, it would seem to be a little bit like this in the first term, we are taking an important step. After all, although exactly zero times this clause has been used, the proposed clause has a great symbolic value. I think that Mr Schouwenaar put it nicely in his first term, when he said: it suggests that being gay has already taken the first step towards a resignation, and that only the second step of an additional circumstance should be added. In fact, you're saying that there's something wrong with the fact that someone is gay when they work at some educational institutions. This misunderstanding is now simply being removed. When the law is passed, it's clear: you can't fire or refuse someone because he's gay. Period. I would like to add two more comments before I answer the specific questions that have been put to the government. It is said that paper is patient, but we know that there are a lot of schools where students and teachers do not want to come out or dare to come out, or where they do not apply because they think they do not want them there or because it would not be a safe environment. The General Law on Equal Treatment has never changed that, and that will not change after today, even though it is a serious problem. As important as it is, this is not resolved by the current legislative proposal. There will be a lot of work and energy left in it to gradually ensure that everyone realizes that it is common to be gay and that no one should be discriminated against in that respect. Mr Bussemaker is in the cabinet portfolio holder for homo-emancipation and she is working with educational institutions and organisations in the field to achieve this. It does not apply only to educational establishments in particular. In public schools, it is sometimes said that homosexuals don't happen to them. You know you can't. Statistically it is not possible and yet there are many schools where this is said. This brings me to the next paradox, which I have also experienced as Minister of Education. I have the impression that some reformatory schools are talking more openly about the problem than some public schools. In public schools it is often said that the subject does not play, that it is not on the agenda or that it is not a problem. I've been to reformatory schools where they might not want to take the final step of accepting, but where they said they'd face the fact that there were as many gay teachers as anywhere else in the country, that they accepted that they have this orientation, but that they have specific views on what to do with it. So people are talking about it with each other. The first two steps, accepting that someone is gay and talking to each other about it, are already two very important. Let me also take away the impression that it is a problem that is specific to certain forms of education, because it also plays outside. Sometimes there are even special institutions that deal with the subject with more love and attention than in some public schools where it is simply ignored. Then I'll turn to the few questions that have been asked to me. I shall begin with Mrs Van Bijsterveld's questions. She mentioned eight key points in relation to the legislative proposal, including the addition of fundamental rights. This is an important point for the CDA, and has also been discussed extensively here. It has once again been confirmed that the side-casting is the case, including with regard to the government. The distinction may be made by religion in certain cases. Good faith and loyalty to the foundation has been discussed, as well as the scope for scrutiny and the real discretion that the judge has. Grosso Modo agrees with the government on the eight points raised by Mrs Van Bijsterveld. She asked about the current closed system of directives. She asked if the government had any intention of coming up with an open system. Do you want me to take a breath?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-6.u19	Yes, Mrs. Van Bijsterveld has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-6.u20	I'd like to give the Minister a little break. He said that the government broadly agrees with the points. Does this mean that the Minister supports the eight points?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-6.u21	Let's just leave it at that. I said grosso modo because I wanted to leave the exact choice of words to the CDA. There are no points I would like to throw far from me. Then the open and the closed system. A closed system means that all exceptions to the prohibition of discrimination are expressed explicitly and exhaustively by the legislator. In other words, "discrimination must not be allowed, unless..." where the exceptions must be mentioned point by point. The scope for judicial review shall then be limited to those points. An open system would make a more general exception, with greater room for justice. Let me be clear about that. The current legislative amendment does not aim to convert the closed system into an open system. We have no intention of doing so in the short term either. In addition, the integration of all equal treatment laws, such as the Equal Treatment Act on grounds of disability and age, by including them all in one General Equal Treatment Act, is a very complex legislative process. Similarly, European legislation has not yet been completed for all grounds and areas. It is therefore obvious that the next review of the General Law on Equal Treatment will be used in 2017 to assess whether the law should be revised in its entirety. This will lead to the creation of the European system. I would add that I very much hope that Mrs Bergkamp's reply will convince her group to vote in favour of the proposal. That is what the CDA Group in the House of Representatives has done, and I have highlighted this as an important moment. It would be nice if such a fundamental law had broad support. I even think that there is perhaps a paradox here that it is even more important for Christian teachers in Christian schools, and therefore in some sense for the CDA's supporters, than for some liberal teachers in liberal public schools where the problem is less acute. I hope that the fine way in which the initiators have accepted previous amendments and come to a balanced legislative proposal will lead to the support of the CDA. It is, of course, up to the CDA Group, but I hope that it will succeed. Mr Meijer asked when the law could enter into force. As far as I'm concerned, that can be done at the next fixed moment of change. There are two of them a year, in January and July. If the Chamber votes in favour, I will ensure that the law will enter into force as of 1 July 2015, through the formal channel by which the King will finally sign it, so we may hope and adopt it, and the law will then be published. Mrs Bergkamp referred to me for a discussion on different forms of special education. We could talk about it for a long time, but the present bill applies to all special education. That's my conclusion. In doing so, I answer immediately a question from Mr Kops, about Islamic education. The law applies to all special education, including Islamic education. There too, a teacher cannot be refused or fired because he is gay. That's crystal clear. I am aware of the very different discussion about the attitude towards homosexuals in different religious communities, including the Muslim community, but I do not know whether this debate can contribute much to that. It must be clear that this law also applies there. Mr Holdijk asked for a response to a number of considerations on his part. In particular, it referred to the possible shift in the balance of fundamental rights, with regard to the right to equal treatment versus the right to freedom of education, religion and association. I'll say a few things about it. First of all, ordinary law can further develop and refine constitutional fundamental rights. This is done, for example, by the General Law on Equal Treatment. Mr Koole and Mr Schouwenaar and Mr De Graaf pointed this out in the first term. It is perfectly legitimate for the law to refine both the right to freedom of religion and not discriminate. The fact that the single-fact structure is removed from the law does not suddenly mean that the law infringes the Constitution. You can agree or not, but I don't think you can say that this bill is unconstitutional. I certainly do not believe that, because I would not recommend it. Will there be a shift in the balance of fundamental rights if the law is adopted? Maybe there's a little bit of light there between the initiators and the position I'm giving on behalf of the government. Perhaps not, because I think the initiators have said that the balance will shift slightly if the law is passed. I see that as an appraisal, as an assessment. I have already stated in writing that the government does not believe that the current balance will shift. I am also saying this because this single fact-building has never really been successfully invoked since it was incorporated into the law twenty years ago, so it has never been used. Whether there will be a shift in practice is an expectation. That's an assessment of the future. You can look at that differently. Precisely because it is an important, also symbolic, moment, you can actually hope that it contributes to greater acceptance of homosexuality. I don't know if that should always involve shifting the balance. I find the imagery of this balance a little difficult in this context too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-6.u22	Now I think the Minister is making it very hypothetical. What is happening now in this legislative amendment is that the principle of equality should be extended to an individual, an individual who can rely on it, in relation to freedom of association and freedom of education. In my view, this is not denied by the initiators either. Now, however, the Minister says that he does not really know that. I don't get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-6.u23	In strictly academic terms alone, it is only a question of what the strength of that single-fact construction was, because it was never successfully applied. I still need to hear an example of an additional circumstance that in itself is not a reason to resign, but combined with the fact that someone is gay is a reason to resign. Where that remains theoretical, it is actually difficult to say that removing that possibility will certainly lead to a shift in that balance. I don't know. That's my position right now. I would add that I think that because of that symbolic value people feel strongly that they are just right to be gay. That is indeed the intention of the initiators and I fully support them. However, that is something other than saying that this balance has necessarily shifted. Mr Schouwenaar reminded me of my commitment to delete Article 5 (2) (d) of the General Law on Equal Treatment. He asked when he could expect that. I've been checking it out for a while. In the second term of the proceedings in the Lower House, I promised to do so at the next review of the law, in 2017. I want to repeat that here. Then there's some experience with that law. At that moment, it can happen in one go. Mr Koole asked it was a long and difficult question how and to whom the government is going to insist that the power to ask the College of Human Rights at the time when a dismissal procedure is taking place can be used generously. The answer is short and good that I will ask my colleague from OCW if they can bring to the attention of the relevant employers' and employees' organisations the possibility of obtaining an opinion from that college if there is a dismissal procedure. Mr Koffeman had two questions. I think I am through with them on two escape routes which have apparently already been discussed on the left and right. One would be the escape route to bring regular educational institutions under the regime of Article 3 of the General Law equal treatment and thus make them de facto part of a church society, leaving them free to make a distinction. That is really not a real way, I want to be very clear about that. Article 3 is really about the church society as such. So if there were a school within that church society, it would have to be an education into a function within that church society that is functionally part of that church society and inherent in being a church society. The housing of basic education, primary education, secondary education or vocational education there would be a trick that is clearly not the intention of the legislator. That would also be very undesirable. Nor can I imagine that this would have a chance to be recognized in any court of law. In fact, this also applies to the question of whether it would be possible to call on distorted relations to in fact create a detour around the General Law on equal treatment. There are meters of case law on the concept of 'disturbed relations'. It's always a bit of a logical problem that when I say that our relationship is disturbed, which is by definition so. Of course, that can never be a way for an employer to get rid of a staff member that he actually wants to get rid of because the person in question is gay. Let's not find out that's happening. I really can't do that. If that turned out to be the case, it wouldn't stand up in court either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-6.u24	The latter is the problem. There was a canton judge in Almelo who dismissed a homosexual teacher from a Christian school due to disturbed relationships. In another case, a canton judge has allowed the dismissal of a homosexual director of an Islamic school on those grounds. It is well known that canton judges often tend to say: I do not go too far into it, but there is a distortion here. They will then approve the dismissal, even if it could be accompanied by compensation. The Minister says, "Don't let me know." There's case law about it. We see that there are examples in which canton judges allow that. My question to the Minister is what he will do to prevent that in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-6.u25	I don't need to repeat what I just said. Of course, you cannot say that you only want to lose someone because he is gay and you are referring to distorted relationships, when in fact there is no question of that at all. Should an employer do so, this could lead to a long journey which would indeed disrupt those relations. This can then be judged by the canton court in such a way that this will lead to large compensations, because it has in fact been unlawfully done by such an employer. I will go back to what I said in my introduction: the general point is that the Equal Treatment Act alone does not prevent people from being bullied away. That does not even have to be done by formally saying that there is a distortion of relations. This can also be done simply by ignoring people in the teachers' room or by making small comments that they are no longer fully part of it. This can lead to a very unpleasant and undesirable situation. That is very regrettable. The only way to work on that is by making sure you get a lot into schools, that you get attention to it, and that people gradually realize that it's normal that a significant percentage of students and teachers are gay, that that's part of the person they are and that they have every right to be. You can't change that from one moment to the next. It will take a great deal of time to achieve that ideal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-6.u26	I understand that the Minister also feels it is very undesirable for such situations to arise. Is he prepared to say that at least the Cabinet is monitoring whether these kinds of situations are going to occur on a larger scale and, if so, to initiate them?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-6.u27	That's what I'm telling you. Moreover, I think that I am getting to the point of the fellow Member who has the portfolio of homo-emancipation rather quickly. I know that she is also very active in this area. I can certainly promise that, partly on her behalf. To be honest, I have answered all my questions. I want to end this. I think this is an important moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-6.u28	Thank you, Minister. I'm gonna take a look at the clock. I wanted to suspend the meeting until 3:40 p.m. How's 3:45? I hear we can move on. Doesn't anyone want to suspend? I see that's the case. Then we'll continue with the second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-6.u29	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the initiators and also the Minister for the Interior for their response to our comments. In my second term, I would like to address a number of issues on a point-by-point basis. I shall begin with the understanding of the single-fact construction. Much has been said about it in the first term of this debate. It is perhaps good to recall that this construction was once intended as a clause of the freedom granted to organizations under the Equal Treatment Act. We are now talking about simply deleting that single-fact structure. This simply means that this clause will expire and that it will, in a way, become a wider freedom. I can imagine that it would be good to recall that for those who have talked about it in that way. The second point is that this single-fact construction for the CDA has always been an auxiliary construction. It's never been a blissful construction. However, we have come to the conclusion that it has worked very well in 20 years to find a solution in concrete cases, which takes into account specific circumstances and takes maximum account of the circumstances of a case and of the specific interests of the parties. At the time, it worked well to bring parties closer together, so that there could be a general law on equal treatment at all. Next, I come to the General Law on Equal Treatment itself. It was drawn up as a closed system, originally with the neutral concept of 'distinguishment'. It is very difficult to try to interpret a society like ours as legislators in a general law with a closed system.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-6.u30	I am a little late, but I have a comment on Mrs Van Bijsterveld's previous point. The single-fact construction was a tool that has generally worked very well. Those are the words Mrs Van Bijsterveld used. In the first term, I quoted the words of the letter from the Christian organizations of homosexual, lesbian and other people. What does Mrs Van Bijsterveld think about that? Those organisations say that they have lived in unbearable tension for many years because of this single-fact construction. How can we talk about the proper functioning of the single-fact construction as a tool?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-6.u31	First of all, I can imagine those organizations coming with such a cry of hearts. That is certainly what they have been given, and I am listening to it. Several participants in the debate, however, said in the first period that this law was established twenty years ago and that it was prepared thirty years ago. If I just have to focus on the issue of homosexuality, that is what the bill, partly wrongly, is often hung on anyway, I see this whole discussion as a social process, in which feelings about values gradually change into a society. That's partly an organic process. We are now talking about the position of Christian organizations and schools. However, let us not forget that this was still a very precarious point in society as a whole for the implementation of this General Law on Equal Treatment. It's really not that long ago. This whole issue must be seen as a process of gradual acceptance of homosexuality in society. That won't be enforced one-two-three. It's a social process. The fact that this General Law on Equal Treatment has been introduced at all means that there has gradually been social support for the adoption of such a law. My own point of view is as follows. Do not always try to sharpen the proportions and leave enough room for all parties at this point. In this process, this single-fact construction has worked well, because this construction made it possible to create a law at all and because we have seen that this construction has led to few legal proceedings over the next twenty years and may also have contributed to wider social acceptance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-6.u32	I am pleased that Mrs Van Bijsterveld has over time embraced this development towards broader social acceptance. I totally agree with her. I also agree with her that this single-fact construction was necessary at the time to get the law passed, as a first step in that time. I can imagine all that. But it may also have evolved. So it might well be that this single fact-building, which was introduced with the best of intentions at the time, has become more and more compelling over time. That is why these organisations speak of 'unbearable tension for teachers and students', to which the legislative proposal now before us can come to an end. "Unbearable tension for teachers and students," it says. That was the reason for me to question the idea that the construction itself would have worked well. At that time it might have been necessary to establish a law and that was understandable in the circumstances of that moment. However, society has developed. At the moment, therefore, it may be necessary to put an end to this unbearable tension and the construction is not only no longer necessary, but also pinching.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-6.u33	I would like to say three things. Firstly, I think that the adoption of this bill will not remove an unbearable tension from one day to the next, if there is one. I see this as an ongoing process. The text of this bill, I think, is not capable of changing it, however you interpret it, even if it is only because we believe that the draft law in its wording is certainly no clearer than the terms of the old law. Secondly, it is important not to create a caricature of Christian schools and Orthodox reformatorical schools, as if there were enormous discrimination on the grounds of homosexuality. I believe that the Minister himself has said a number of sensible words about this. It is also important to emphasise this in this debate. Otherwise we will have some sort of we-she-discussion, and I do not think that is right. Thirdly, I think it is important to stress that several other speakers have also done so, and that there should be room in a society for minority beliefs about how to organise your organisation on the basis of philosophical principles. Of course, you can always talk about the exact limits and margins. However, it is important to stress that this organisational freedom must also be protected. You then try to find a good legal formula for that at some point, but you cannot capture all the concrete circumstances and all the concrete case positions directly. Absolutely not. It is an illusion to think that, not only with this bill, but also with many other legislative proposals. That is why I also notice that, in this House, we sometimes try, with certain legislative proposals, to deal with cases in detail in legislation, whereas in other cases this is totally out of the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-6.u34	I agree with Mrs Van Bijsterveld. Firstly, the removal of that construction does not lead to a completely different situation, but it may help to take another step forward. The Minister also said something about this. Secondly, there should be no caricature of religious schools. That has not been my commitment, nor has it been for the letter writers, who praise many initiatives in Christian schools in dealing with homosexual teachers and pupils. However, they do say that this single-fact construction is such that it is perceived as oppressive. Finally, we certainly need to respect minorities. On the contrary, we must respect them in a careful debate, which we are happy to have here. The deletion of the single-fact structure can, I think, contribute precisely to the careful design of minority rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-6.u35	I will not comment on it in detail, but one more comment. The most important thing is that there is a discussion about certain themes. How different people think about it or exactly how they deal with it is a second. At least you have to find each other in there. Perhaps the legislation can make a small, modest contribution to this. I would, however, be wary of the illusion that if we adopt this legislative proposal, we are going to regulate exactly how things are going to be in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-6.u36	I think Mrs Van Bijsterveld is right that this is a process of longer breath. It is a development that will not be very different from one day to the next. Nor will the adoption of this law suddenly reveal a whole new social situation. However, Mrs Van Bijsterveld also outlined the development over the last twenty years. Is there not an element in this development that one grows into just a little more clarity, can give a little more guidance to a judge in order to judge in concrete cases and just a little less uncertainty for those who might possibly suffer from the single fact structure? If the single-fact construction disappears, they might have a little bit more certainty. Mrs Van Bijsterveld's development could lead her to say that this law may not solve everything, but it just provides a little more certainty and therefore fits in with the process that has begun and continues over the last 20 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-6.u37	I do see this in terms of a development, with which I do not want to say that everyone will think or have to think exactly the same about all these matters. But of course you do see a social development. Furthermore, I believe that you yourself asked why we cannot forget all these precise wordings by speaking in general terms of good employment and good employership. In itself, you leave much more to the judge. Then you don't try to get into legal texts with clauses and exceptions and specifics, but you give the judge much more room for manoeuvre than is the case under the current General Law on equal treatment. Maybe it could be. In reply to your question, I said that the parliamentary debate was unclear and confused. I have therefore tried to distil a few points that are certain. Mrs Bergkamp said that there are rather new terms that will still have to be proved in any case-law. I agree with her. In a way, you trade something you know what you have for something you don't know what you have. But these terms are derived from a European directive, which leaves room for consideration. That is not a bad thing, although the European directive has a very different system from our law. Anyway, that might be something for the gourmets.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-6.u38	I will not provoke Mrs Van Bijsterveld to say yes or no. I can tell that it also goes the right way in its development, from my point of view. In any case, I am pleased that this debate in the First Chamber has added value to parliamentary history. I believe that this debate has been clearer than the parliamentary documents so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-6.u39	Good. I would like to go further on my comments on the General Equal Treatment Act. That's a closed system. I find it difficult to grasp today's society in such a system. That is why you have to make many exceptions, and that has also been done, including by means of legislative amendments, where exceptions were found to be necessary in very different areas from what we are talking about today. I am referring to areas that are in themselves highly sensitive, such as nationality and race. I'm not even talking about positive discrimination. There is therefore a great deal of casuism on this point, which cannot be foreseen. You shouldn't want that as a judge either, and we shouldn't pretend that you did as a legislator. It is important to recall that, outside the scope of this General Law, equal treatment can arise in order to create employment relations between employers and employees in which it is difficult to continue, because of events that do not necessarily lead to dismissal. I come up with two self-imagined, hypothetical examples. An employee of an animal welfare organisation appears to have grossly neglected his own pets and may have been convicted of doing so. Normally you can't be fired for that, but in such a case, of course, you lose your credibility as an organization. Your position as an employee is likely to be difficult. I also call a traffic officer who's had too much to drink. Normally that should not lead to an impossible work situation, but in such a case it can. That in itself is not bad at all, that can happen very well. There are "additional circumstances" which make something that doesn't have to be a problem in a normal working relationship difficult in a very specific work situation. We also need to have a little eye for all those varieties. I hope the judge will have that. Of course, the interests of the individual employer play a role in this, but also in the credibility of an organisation. That is important, because without it, no organization or political party or ideal organisation, as I have just mentioned, can do its job. You gotta give some room for that. Despite all the explanations given by the initiators, the concepts that are now being introduced remain quite new. This will allow the courts to deal with this issue, which is linked to the European directive. We think that is a positive point. I also found it positive that the Minister does not think that we can actually speak in advance of a shift in the balance of fundamental rights. In any case, he does not want to make that assessment, so that a different wording has been chosen which is in line with the European directive on this point. That's that. In any case, for us, it is important that we have distilled eight points from the treatment in addition to the room before the court. If I have heard correctly, the initiators and the minister can endorse those points, with which I do not wish to say in advance that I would like to endorse all the concrete examples mentioned by Mrs Bergkamp. However, we do not have to give a ruling on this. First of all, these are hypothetical situations, and secondly, when they are discussed, we are not the ones who decide on them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-6.u40	Mr. Chairman. In my first term, unlike the OSF group and to a lesser extent those of GroenLinks and D66, I tried to avoid a clash with the opponents of this legislative amendment. I respect their position as long as it is not imposed on others. This perhaps moderate attitude stems from our view that differences of opinion about religions and the role of religions in our society do not reflect the most essential political contradictions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-6.u41	I never find it so strong to start your speech by indicating what you think of the contributions of other groups. But why have other parties, including D66, focused on a collision with other groups and other beliefs? This is a debate about the law and its legal content, with different ideas coming along. But that doesn't mean we're looking for a collision, does it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-6.u42	I have made a nuance by referring to the attitude of the OSF, which sought the collision more emphatically. As far as I am concerned, Mr De Lange made a very clear statement as an atheist. But in my opinion that is not the focus of this discussion. I said that the attitude of GroenLinks and D66 was somewhat more related but not comparable to Mr De Lange's clear stance in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-6.u43	In my opinion, you have said: the OSF and GroenLinks and, to a lesser extent, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-6.u44	I said: to a lesser extent GroenLinks and D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-6.u45	I'd like you to take the latter back if you don't mean it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-6.u46	If you think you've been wronged with that, I didn't mean to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-6.u47	I'm a little surprised, because when I say for myself that I'm an atheist, it seems to me as valuable as someone who says I belong to a certain faith.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-6.u48	Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-6.u49	So that is not at all the search for a confrontation, but the finding of the fact that very different ideas can live in a society. These different ideas can also include a certain opinion on how to deal with freedom of religion and education. If one disagrees, it is not the search for confrontation, but the creation of clarity by indicating where certain ideas differ from one another and how those differences may be resolved. I think it is very legitimate to have an opinion on where, in practice, things like freedom of religion and freedom of education create difficulties in everyday life. These difficulties are being created. That's how simple it seems to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-6.u50	I very much agree with Mr De Lange that these difficulties exist. I was just trying to point out that the framework extends a little further than this bill. That is why I indicated that I chose to be modest in this respect. So it says more about our attitude than about yours. For the rest, you are certainly entitled to your position. That is just as respectable as other positions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-6.u51	I can be brief. In fact, I believe that the legislative proposal could go further in certain areas, precisely because it would make it clearer. It's about clarity that matters to me. At the same time, it cannot be that the better becomes the enemy of good. In that sense, I am very happy with the bill; it is that simple again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-6.u52	We agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-6.u53	For the record, I do not recognize myself in the image of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, if we do not respect the views of others in this regard. We certainly do. I am very comfortable with Mr Holdijk in the bench. I think we respect each other's point of view.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-6.u54	I'm glad to hear that. I shall resume my speech. People who are affiliated to different church societies and people who are not churchly organized can agree on many things together. For example, I often see the Christian Union and the SP on the same side. I'm happy about that. But there are differences here. Mr Kuiper has expressed the best of what was also the concerns of the confessional parties in the House of Representatives against this initiative legislative proposal. The core of his party's story in the Lower House was as follows. Firstly, do not choose between fundamental rights. Secondly, legislation is too heavy a means, because there are few clashes on this issue. Thirdly, leave differences of opinion to the courts on a case-by-case basis. Feature of this story is that the balance between the different fundamental rights is not regulated by law but is presented to the courts. That is precisely where we differ. In theory, the corridor to the judge is more defendable than in practice. That way puts the disadvantaged in a weaker position with great uncertainty, a great chance of opposition by the employer and a long, difficult way to obtain his or her rights. The small number of court cases is no reason to allow this uncertainty to continue, partly because in many cases the stage with the judge is never reached. Mr Kuiper also made a comment about private behaviour which is always considered. I agree with him when it comes to extreme cases. Such an extreme example is that in some South American countries police officers spend their free time as a member of a death squadron or of a criminal drug gang. This is not only completely incompatible with the role of a police officer, but must also be severely punished. The private and living situation of workers, in particular the question of who they are sleeping with, is, in my view, not one of the comparable situations. This is without prejudice to the core of their work. In her reply, Mrs Bergkamp mentions the position of transgender pupils and the right to speak or not. The debate in the House of Representatives also briefly discussed the extent to which this change of law has an impact not only on the teaching staff but also on the pupils. The outcome remained rather unclear. There would be a need for additional legislation on this subject. How do the initiators see this and how does the Minister see it? Finally, I would like to thank the initiators for their years of work and the Minister for his efforts towards early implementation on 1 July.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-6.u55	Mr. Chairman. I can be very short. I would like to thank the Minister and, in particular, the initiator for the directional clarity in the responses to the examples. I believe that this may also be important for any subsequent review. In addition, this bill is not only a matter of principle but also of symbolic importance, especially for those concerned. They experienced the single fact structure, in particular that they could be dismissed or not accepted on the basis of the additional circumstances that could justify distinction, as a kind of sword of Damocles hanging over their heads. With the adoption of this bill, we will put an end to it. I believe that as a parliament we are sending an important signal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-6.u56	Mr. Chairman. I shall begin by expressing my thanks and appreciation to Mrs Bergkamp, who spoke on behalf of the initiators, and to the Minister, who spoke on behalf of the government. I am convinced that we have had a good debate and that the many questions that have been asked have been adequately and convincingly answered. I'm glad to hear that, because I don't say that after every debate. Looking at the situation, I think there's one potential problem left. In a country where the avoidance of taxes is a national sport, one can expect that, after the adoption of this bill, circumvention behaviour will also be possible. Some suggestions have already been made as to how that might be possible. I still don't have a very good feeling about that. At the same time, I must admit to the initiators that we have no choice but to wait and see. I think, however, that the need is fully present to keep a sharp eye on all of them. Time will tell, but let's keep an eye out. The proposal does not go as far as my group would like on certain points. Mr Meijer had, of course, understood that very well. It's okay. Nevertheless, we must all prevent it from becoming the better enemy of good. That is why my group will vote wholeheartedly in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-6.u57	Mr. Chairman. I can be brief. I shall begin with a word of thanks to the initiators and the Minister for replying. The Minister will not mind if I pay particular tribute to the way in which the initiator replied on behalf of the other initiators, with knowledge of the facts and the corresponding nuance. I appreciate that, too. We are very much in favour of this. This debate has indeed contributed to a further clarification, not only of the views expressed in this Chamber but also of the intention of the legislator. I am thinking, for example, of the debate that we have had on what is now appropriate, given 'good faith and loyalty' on the basis of the institution. It has become clear that we need to see this in the context of good employment, but that it is more than Mr Kuiper feared, namely that it would only be about the right professional qualification or the right paper for teaching. It is, of course, a question of good employeeship in the context of the nature of that institution. However, it is not a question of what it does not say, namely how to behave exactly or what to endorse. These are again specialities that are not in the law. If there are any questions about that, I think the judge is the one who has to judge it, taking into account the circumstances. I am also pleased that Mrs Bergkamp has mentioned in the debate examples of direct distinction and indirect distinction which, in the opinion of the initiators, really cannot be. In particular, the indirect distinction is important, which is also part of the legal history. I agree with the examples referred to by Mrs Bergkamp. Finally, I believe that this bill, as I said earlier, is a logical proposal in the development of thinking in Dutch society about equal treatment and equal treatment. It also seems logical to me that the legislative proposal in this Chamber should have broad support, given the broad support in society for equal treatment. I am confident that this will be shown in the vote next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-6.u58	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the initiators, especially Mrs Bergkamp, for the clear answer and the clear debate we have had. The debate has helped clarify positions and arguments. I am grateful that we could have such a debate here. Although it is a general law, the debate has very often dealt with Christian schools and the position of homosexual teachers on them. It is a focus, and in a sense an association, of the questions you may have in this area. Anyway, it was, I think, the main point of reference for the proposers. These schools care about me, and I know them too. I very much appreciate the fact that the Minister has said that it is precisely in these schools that an enormous effort is being made to make the issues of homosexuality more discussable and to create a safe environment for that purpose. That's how I know these schools, even nearby. The Minister talked about working in these schools with love and attention. I recall that this is happening under the rule of law as it is now. With the single fact-finding structure, a great deal of attention has been paid to these schools over the years on these issues. Therefore, I do not recognize myself in some of the images that sometimes came along in the discussion. I find it unthinkable that a student in such a school could not discuss homosexuality; that example came along. I find it unthinkable that it would not be possible and would not be discussed. However, this is not particularly the case in these schools, but also in other places in society. I would like to stress this because otherwise the focus is too one-sided on a particular sector or group, or it is too easily linked to religion. There are also other places in society where these issues are raised and we must also be careful to discriminate and to make an unjustified distinction. Having said all this, I'm going to go into this law. I think we're looking at this in a different way. I think that the single-fact structure has a certain function and gives a space of discretion to the competent authority of a school to be in conversation with people, including prospective teachers or others at that school. The reflection in this discussion is always that it is said: but one's own discretion could lead to a person feeling condemned. Or that it is said that someone is already standing with one leg at the exit, as Mr Schouwenaar said about it. I'll approach that differently. I see it as room for discussion, especially about what needs to be done because of the foundation of a school. In doing so, the competent authority will also decide on the behaviour of people. I believe that the freedoms as referred to in our Constitution are based on opinions about what belongs and on moral behaviour or moral beliefs. You cannot agree with that, many people in the country may disagree on many points, but I think it is one of the things protected by freedom of religion. That is why, in the end, I consider the issue of fundamental rights to be different in this whole debate. I believe that this legislative proposal will give the individual a very high level of protection, while it will also require protection for a collective or a group that wants to live from certain points of view and to contribute to our society. We will consider this, but you will feel how we stand in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-6.u59	Mr. Chairman. On behalf of my group, too, I would like to thank the authors, Mrs Bergkamp and the Minister for everything they have put forward. I would also, of course, like to thank them for bringing the initiative law so far. If the omens don't cheat, I don't want to boast of a raging political feeling. I can hardly imagine that he would be voted off. I'd like to anticipate that once in a while, if you don't point that out to me. I would like to say something to the Minister first, and then to Mrs Bergkamp. I have just as much thanks and appreciation for both of them, but with the Minister I have a little less satisfaction with the answer than with Mrs Bergkamp. That's how I'm trying to build a bit of a rising line. The Minister has rightly referred to the year 2017 I have checked it out for a while but I would like to go back to 2014. That's when we talked about the refuse officer here. We have seen that Article 5 (2) (d) was intended to put the judge out of play if a refuse officer was to be dismissed. If a refusal officer were to come to the administrative judge and claim that his prestige is distinguished because he is of a certain faith or church society, which prevents him from performing gay marriages, he would not be allowed to do so. The judge shouldn't pay any attention to it either. The applicants then defended this by saying that the judge might make a wrong decision. That argument didn't do the job right, I'll say. Reference was also made to the adage that fundamental rights should not be used to frustrate the fundamental rights of others. I had the impression at the time that I still had that I did not represent the only group that had some difficulty with that. My group was very pleased that the Minister promised that the article would be deleted. He mentioned the year 2017. Of course, time doesn't stand still. At that time, we voted in favour of the expectation that there would not be too much going on in this area until 2017. Now we are less than a year ahead and we must vote in favour of the same article again, because the article we were opposed to at the time is worded as Article 1a in the present legislative proposal. We can do that one more time, and maybe one more time. However, I would ask the Minister whether he would like to show a little more speed to be in favour of this phenomenon. Maybe our obedience can inspire him to do so. Anyone who does good, meets good, I hope. In this sense, the situation has changed somewhat since last year. Mrs Bergkamp, thank you very much for everything you have said and thus clarified, in a very eloquent and, at the same time, excellent way in terms of content. You've even answered more than you've asked. Thank you for that. You said that practice will have to prove it and we will end up in court. You have been a little concerned with this, because I heard you speak a few times about your plea rather than your speech. So we've been in court a little bit. That was not wrong at all; I have nothing against it. I do wonder whether we are not pushing those directly concerned too much towards procedures. Procedures can be very difficult. They cost money, time, tension and all kinds of attention that not everyone is always charmed about. Wouldn't it be much nicer and better when people can read in the law what they can and what they can't? I'm still having a hard time getting my head straight. I can imagine that others have a problem with that, too. I have doubts whether we have finally made a product that is clear, clear and easy to read and which you say: I now know what is happening. In any case, it is not about the formulation and the packaging but about the content. However, I am convinced that we have clearly improved the standard, the principle on which it is based. I hope that there will be a lot of discussion, and we agree that the discussion will continue, but that it will not necessarily have to be conducted in court, but especially outside. I see this as a bit of my last chance to compliment the proposers, assuming that the bill will be passed. Otherwise, next week, we will be taking advantage of each other with all kinds of explanations of vote. As far as the VVD is concerned, thanks and compliments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-6.u60	Mr. Chairman. Many thanks also to the PvdA Group for answering the questions by the Minister and the authors, in particular Mrs Bergkamp. It was of course a special honour to hear Mrs Bergkamp mention twice the name of the late colleague Willem Witteveen, next to whom I was allowed to sit in the Upper Chamber for years. The fact that his mind is still alive here is also evident in this debate. That's good. Thank you also for the clear explanation and the answers given by the proposers to my question on concrete measures before the courts. Practical examples have also clarified direct and indirect distinctions. Here's what's going on with the judge. Mr Schouwenaar just made a comment on it. In a previous debate we did indeed talk about the refuse official. At that time, I supported his comment in the direction of the Minister on the importance of speed in dealing with that article. I'm doing that again now. I would like to thank the Minister for his commitment to ask his colleague from OCW to involve the Human Rights College and to inform employers of what this proposal is about. That sounds good to me. It is clear that the PvdA Group is in favour of the law. That is what I said in the first term. We hope that it will make a significant contribution to the efforts to put an end to what I have mentioned twice in the letter from the Christian LCC Plus organizations, called 'the unbearable tension of teachers and students in religious education'. I believe that this bill will contribute to alleviating this tension at least. That is not to say, I would like to stress that, once again, Christian education has not already made very good efforts to make this subject open to discussion within its own circle. Mr Kuiper spoke about it, so did the Minister. We very much appreciate those attempts in Christian education. Nevertheless, we believe that the deletion of this article, the single-fact structure, also contributes to the important debate on equal treatment and equal treatment of people in Dutch society. That's something the PvdA is very much for. This bill contributes to this. We will vote in favour of this bill next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-6.u61	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the speakers for their second-term response. A number of comments were made and a number of questions asked. First, a response to a remark by the Minister that there would be some light between his position and that of the initiators when it comes to the fundamental rights balance. I have said in my contribution that there is no such light. We don't know what it's like now. It's just waiting to see what it's gonna be like later. I have also indicated that, from a material point of view, I do not expect a hierarchy to arise. Our proposal is balanced in this respect. I hope that I have clarified the lack of clarity on this point. Mrs Van Bijsterveld indicated that the proposers have used new terms. I am keen to tighten up on this point. We have used existing terms that already exist on case law but which have always been the result of the single-fact structure. That's a little nuance. If our proposal is adopted, the judges will work with a number of concrete tools relating to direct and indirect discrimination, the legitimate requirement of appeal, the attitude of loyalty and loyalty and, appropriate and necessary, the indirect system. They are existing and not new terms. Looking at the single-fact construction, however, these were never applicable. I also thought it important to mention a number of examples when it comes to making indirect distinctions. I did indeed talk about my "pleasure" but it is of course "contest"; so you learn something every day. Mr De Graaf also said a few things about this. I also think it is important for the legal history to be clear about a number of things. My comment on this was that the proposers cannot imagine that the judges will decide otherwise, namely that a ban on this is necessary and appropriate, i.e. the talk, a gay-straight alliance. Of course, Mrs Van Bijsterveld is right that it is ultimately up to the judge to decide. By saying that we need to see this in practice, I also meant that it is ultimately up to the judge to judge. In any case, the proposers considered it important, including for the history of law, to give direction to it. I just did. Mr De Lange asked whether additional legislation was still needed when it came to the position of pupils. Our proposal also concerns the position of pupils. I also filled that out and gave some examples of it. I know that there is an initiative proposal in the House of Representatives. This is about admission to educational institutions. We have to wait and see what this means for this proposal, but I assume that it will be additional, perhaps even wider. The deletion of the single-fact structure also applies to the position of pupils. Mr Schouwenaar asked whether my speech would not lead to a very quick trial. I don't have that expectation. There is little case law at the moment. It seems to me to be a very good suggestion to evaluate this at some point. That can also be wider. Then we can always see if we can codify it. We give this suggestion to the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations. With this I have answered all the questions and comments. I think we have had a worthy and careful debate in this Chamber. Mr Kuiper has just mentioned this. The single-fact structure has been discussed for a long time, over twenty years. In fact, since its inception in 1994, the single-fact structure has been a dark cloud over the General Law on equal treatment. The proposers hope that they have made it clear that in 2015 it is necessary to delete the single-fact construction, to stop the discussion about it, and, as the LCC-Plus organisations said, put an end to the unbearable tension. Of course, the dialogue must continue on this subject, with the ambition of these proposers saying that every human being must be able and allowed to be visible himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-6.u62	Mr. Chairman. I will respond briefly to Mr Schouwenaar's question on deadlines. I shall then turn to Mrs Van Bijsterveld's contribution, and then come to a brief conclusion. First of all, Mr Schouwenaar's question: can there not be a little more speed with the amendment of Article 5 (2) (a)? I would like to do it, but it is a recently adopted initiative proposal. It is the Government's intention to amend this at the next opportunity when it can reasonably do so, i.e. at the time of the evaluation. In the meantime, the judge may review that member in accordance with international conventions. I do not believe that there will be any major accidents. I would like to reaffirm that intention here. We'll be able to see how things work out. This avoids a separate legislative process. It seems reasonable to me to do so, but I have heard very well that Mr Schouwenaar says: at some point my patience on this point will end. That was also endorsed by Mr Koole. I would like to take up Mrs Van Bijsterveld's point. She started thinking very creatively about other examples. She mentioned, I believe, the example of someone at an animal welfare foundation who mistreats his own pet or a traffic controller who has a drinking problem himself. She says the law isn't that closed. I agree with that conclusion, by the way. Whatever law you make, you always have to be tested in practice how it works. Precisely because these examples were mentioned, I cannot fail to say that the difference with a drinking problem or mistreating a pet is that homosexuality is an intrinsic character. That is an essential point for me. It's not a behavior or a trait, it's a part of who someone is. Now, if you ask me what is the decisive moment in the process of homo-emancipation, I say: that's not even accepting a certain form of behavior at the end of the day. There may be schools that also think about heterosexuals that if they are not married they should not have sex at a young age. Not so much the behavior is decisive, but accepting that being gay is really a part of who someone is. If you accept that point, a lot of it ultimately comes out of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-6.u63	I do not need to go into the examples, but for reporting it is good to say that I have used these examples in a slightly different context. I think the way you compare them is not the way I'd like to see them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-6.u64	That's how I understood it, but I'm attached to it, because I think it's such a jumping point myself. What has changed in public opinion over the past 30 years? That is that people in the Netherlands have started to accept in a broad circle that can just prove that your child finds out at some point that he is gay and that this is a very normal part of the personality. Then you're going to change the law to that, because you wouldn't say about an ethnic background or gender that the mere fact of it doesn't raise any objections, but in combination with something else you do. It's really about who someone is. I wanted to highlight that, but I do not believe that we disagree on this. That's how I understand this very clearly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-6.u65	I understand what the Minister is saying, but I think it is a bit dangerous in the context of this debate. I believe that this debate is precisely about behavior linked to identity. It's not just about being gay, it's about being gay. That is an integral part of the homo-identity. In this context, I think his definition of being and not of behavior is a bit of a watering down of the debate we have had today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-6.u66	I understand Mrs. De Boer's warning. I believe that we feel the same way about it, but I think that the tipping point in shaping this view is that we accept that it is about who someone is. There are large parts of the world where this is regarded as disease or as behavior that you can learn from. Once you accept that it is part of the personality, that is an important step. It happens a lot. Everyone knows in his environment, in his family circle and among colleagues, people who find out at some point that they are gay. There are also schools where people say that a man and a woman should not have sex until they are married. This may result from the beliefs, and that can also be taught.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-6.u67	I think this bill is right in saying that if a school makes a distinction to it, it can be seen as a distinction on the basis of bourgeois status. So I think we should be very careful to say, if we give examples, that this distinction can be justified. So that's not the case. This is also about behavior.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-6.u68	That was not the thrust of my comment either, so we agree on that. That leads me to the conclusion. It has been a very long journey, but the conclusion is actually very simple. A school cannot refuse or fire a student or a teacher because he is gay, period. That is the conclusion of the debate and the conclusion of the law. I hope that this is a back-up for anyone who walks around with the question: should I come out of the closet? Am I supposed to show up around me that I'm gay? I think, hope and expect that this initiative proposal will support people in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-eerstekamer-6.u69	I note that the vote on this bill is desirable. I propose that we vote on this bill next Tuesday.
