ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-5.u1	Mr. Chairman. This morning I was shocked by a message on the website of Medical Contact. Although it was a small message, it could have serious consequences: the first official abortion combination will be available from the pharmacy on 1 May. Women on Waves is going to tell general practitioners in evening classes that they can legally prescribe this medicine. No matter how we feel about abortion in this house, we know that there are differences of opinion about abortion. This practice is at odds with that. The way of the abortion pill is lonely and anonymous. We are talking about women in need, and we know that even in the longer term, the impact of aborting pregnancy can be great. I have a few questions for the Minister. Does the Minister agree with the Christian Union that the abortion pill should not be available on prescription at the pharmacy? Does she agree with us that this is contrary to the law on termination of pregnancy and that it does not comply with the due diligence requirements of the law? Overtime treatment cannot and should not be performed quickly and easily. Does the Minister share this view? I would very much like to hammer on a good accompaniment of women. My group believes that this is absolutely essential. My question to the Minister is whether she shares this view.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. Developments in care are moving fast, including in this area. As Mrs Dik-Faber understands, a pill will be available in the short term in pharmacies that allow for medical abortion up to six and a half weeks of pregnancy. Representatives of Women on Waves consider that the use of this pill should be possible by general practitioners because they consider that there is no legal pregnancy. They claim that in 16 days of overtime there is an overtime treatment and that it is therefore not covered by the abortion law and the penal law. Moreover, this discussion is not new. Over the last few years, I have had this discussion on several occasions. The positions also do not change at all in relation to the discussion over recent years. I am concerned, however, with the question: what is the regulation actually for? It has been created to ensure that care is safe and of high quality, and that we have a number of careful arrangements with each other that are respected. Such an agreement is that you have some time to think about it so that you can make a balanced decision, because these are quite decisions. If there are new possibilities that have the same care, that are safe and of high quality, then I don't see why we should ignore that, especially since the often long-term band you have with your GP, in this sensitive situation, can bring enormous added value. Are you going to an anonymous abortion clinic or are you having a conversation with your GP who's known you, your situation and your surroundings for years? Of course, if we allow this, we will never do so without a conversation here in the Chamber. I shall then have to come up with proposals which will weigh the pros and cons against each other. But I did not reject this immediately, because I think that a general practitioner can have added value for the patient so that he can make a good decision. Of course, there must be guidelines for this and we must ensure that there is a backup at a second line, that is to say at a hospital. Everything must be well arranged, but I do not want to say in advance that we should not do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-5.u3	I am pleased that the Minister does share the concerns of the Christian Union. We both think that care is important, but I am disappointed that she will come to a different conclusion. What is at issue here is that the pharmaceutical industry uses Women on Waves to get a certain drug into the general practitioners. I am very sorry about that. This puts enormous pressure on the due diligence requirements, which we all consider to be so important. The Christian Union is absolutely not happy with that. Aborting a pregnancy has a huge impact on people. Of course, the GP knows you, but a GP is generally trained. How can a GP guide women well in this? And how is the legal reflection period that women have to observe? According to the Christian Union, the abortion pill under current legislation is not possible. It is not for nothing that the Chamber has declared that we are bringing an early termination of pregnancy under the Law of Abruption pregnancy. It is not for nothing that we have said that this abortion pill is only available in clinics and hospitals that are licensed to do so. Our question to the Minister is to respect the care and understanding we have made about this and not to open this new route now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-5.u4	I find it too easy to say: this is a trick of the pharmaceutical industry, which wants to wear a pill through general practitioners. There have been general practitioners for many years who say that we could very well play a part in this. We're talking about overtime. This is really about overtime treatments. There are general practitioners who say that we could play this role very well, because we know our patients and their environment; we can proceed very carefully with them. Of course, if you think it should be, then directives are needed. Then you can decide with each other that in the directives to do so, aspects of education or other aspects also play a role. I said I wouldn't shut the door on that. But if there are any changes to that, then this must be adjusted in the Law on Abrupt Pregnancy. Then we must have a debate in the Chamber on the question: do we believe that this can be done in an orderly manner? I have never said: we are going to do this through a back door; it is not allowed by the law, but it is going to happen. No, I said there's a new possibility. I see that there is a group of general practitioners who say that we could play a very good role in this. I can imagine that. I think that we should have this discussion with each other. Safety, quality and care are central to this. That's the starting point, but I don't want to close that door in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-5.u5	The fraction of D66 would think it a step forward if people get the abortion pill through the familiar environment of their GP. I have deep respect for Women on Waves. Last week, that organisation received the Els Breast Oeuvre Prize for all the work it has done. The Minister clearly says that she does not want to close this access, but does she intend to promote it by asking the profession itself to come up with a clear directive to make this possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-5.u6	I have indicated that I think that is a good way forward. That is true, but it will always be done in consultation with the Chamber. We have a disagreement with the organization Women on Waves, which says it can already be done. Our lawyers say, however, that it cannot be done. I find it very undesirable that we have had such a discussion for years. You shouldn't have that argument in court, you should be here in the Chamber. If I were to amend the Law on Abrupting Pregnancy in this sense, I would follow the parliamentary route through the Chamber, discussing the arguments, for and against, why we would do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-5.u7	Mrs Bergkamp, your second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-5.u8	The Minister clearly states that she will not block this access, but will even promote it. We're very happy about that. The fact that she is on the parliamentary road also makes sense to me. If it were to be amended, would the Minister intend to make this possible quickly and to provide adequate information to patients and general practitioners? There has been some confusion, so it might be good if there is already information from the Ministry on this important subject for a lot of women in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-5.u9	That ambiguity has been around for years. I've got a piece here that's been playing under my predecessor, Mrs. Bussemaker. She came up with an AMvB and an adaptation of a decision. It has said that it will not be implemented until after consultation with the Chamber. These consultations have still not taken place, so no decision has yet been amended. When I first became Minister, one of the first things I had to deal with was that Women on Waves had a different view on the overtime treatment. I think we should put an end to that. We need a reason for that. I think this is enough to consider, in consultation with the family doctor's association, how we can make such a proposal in a careful way, in which quality, safety and care remain upright.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-5.u10	In any case, it is clear that this will not be possible to do so soon without amending legislation or regulations. That suggestion was woken up by Women on Waves. Do I understand the Minister that the legal position remains as it was and that it cannot be done under the current rules?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-5.u11	We have a disagreement on that. We've had that for years. Women on Waves believes that it can be done and we believe that it cannot be done. I think we should do it by royal means: after a debate in Parliament, we need to change the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-5.u12	Mr Van der Staaij, your second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-5.u13	The royal road is a change of law. I share Mrs Dik-Faber's concern: does this not work in practice to lower the threshold, also to apply this termination of pregnancy? Will the Minister consider the following objections? First of all... To what extent can threshold lowering work? Second. To what extent does the question of whether the counseling should no longer be invested in the general practitioners rather than the execution? Third. There are all kinds of signs of compulsion and urge to apply this. Is there sufficient justice in practice to the fact that it is really an independent choice? Is the Minister prepared to take account of these concerns and aspects as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-5.u14	Yeah, but you can also reason the other way around. At an anonymous abortion clinic, there is a very different situation: the context of the woman and the home situation is not known, rather than with the general practitioner. You can argue with the same logic that it raises the threshold because the GP asks other questions and knows your situation much better. The GP can therefore also come up with other solutions that fit your situation instead of being anonymous, as is often the case now. That's a trade-off I'm not so sure about. I'm not ready for your conclusions yet. It's my job to make sure it's done carefully. That is also the starting point of the law. We've arranged a time-out and we set high quality standards. If we were to go down that road, it would always be necessary to have directives for that. We should also examine with each other whether aspects of education or counselling are needed. This can all play a role, but on the basic idea that it would work for a general practitioner to lower the threshold, I would like to start the discussion with Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-5.u15	GroenLinks is in favour of the overtime treatment being possible with the general practitioner, for the reason the minister mentioned. The GP is also the health care provider with whom you have the most contact and who often knows you best. This also fits well with the ideas that are widely shared in the Chamber about substitution of care. This will be possible from 1 May. Should we consider this as a prelude, a kind of experimental phase after which this change can be made?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-5.u16	No. There is indeed a disagreement between Women on Waves and the inspection and the Ministry about whether or not the law allows it. That has been the case for years. We believe that it is not. That is why I have also said that it is not right that we have had a disagreement on this for years and that this should be brought to Parliament. We need to discuss this with each other here and determine what we think is a good arrangement. Let us record that here with each other and get out of that stalemate that exists now. I find the way through the GP to offer a lot of perspective. If we can shape it carefully, I would like to discuss it with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-5.u17	I am extremely pleased with the Minister's last commitment to clarify whether or not the law on over-time treatment is applicable. We agree that the general practitioner plays an important role in this. If it's okay, we're having a debate about a pregnancy break. Before that debate, I would like to see the Minister's position clearly again, and hence the other side of the discussion, namely sexual education and the resilience of women. After all, it is about the minimum number of women who feel compelled to have an over-time treatment or abortion. I would also like to hear that side of the story.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-5.u18	I do not know when that debate is planned and whether it is in a reasonable time, because this is something we must do very thoroughly. I also think it is important to include the whole sector, i.e. general practitioners, abortion clinics and anyone who knows and has an opinion on it. So I do not know when that debate is planned...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-5.u19	It is not yet planned, but would it be a proposal that this letter should be available before the end of the May recess, so that there may be a discussion here before the summer recess on the basis of that letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-5.u20	I think that's very quick. It would mean that I can't add much more to what I'm saying now, because the conversation with the sector obviously takes some time. I can see what I can do, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-5.u21	Thank you for your answers and for coming to the Chamber.
