ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u1	Yesterday we had the first term of office. Today, the government responds. I would like to welcome the Minister and the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. Martin Luther King once said about the true purpose of education: "We must remember that intelligence is not enough. Intelligence plus character, that is the goal of true education." As far as I am concerned, that is a true statement. We only have to look around to see how relevant that statement is today. The world is changing rapidly and dramatically, with major implications for education. Think of technological developments, robotisation, globalisation and migration. These are living worlds that are increasingly separated, not only economically, but also socially and culturally. The adjustments that are then necessary require more from us than just knowledge. It's also about attitude and identity. It's about how we deal with each other and how we learn it in teaching our children, students and students. These developments strengthen us in the conviction that we must continue to pursue the course we have taken and that we must continue our efforts. I will therefore focus today on what changes in society and the risk of separate worlds to education mean, what opportunities there are and what threats. The major changes in society and the labour market require a lot, not only of teachers and teachers, but also of students and students. Besides knowledge, it requires modern skills such as collaboration, creativity and flexibility. As a basis for this, sufficient self-confidence is required to shape all these skills. Moreover, it requires personal training and connection with each other. I see an educational institution as an independent community of values that teaches young people how to deal with knowledge and skills and with whom they are human. This way they can contribute to society. There must always be room for meeting, for debate and sometimes for confrontation. That's what shapes you as a person. According to the CPB and the OECD, personal education is an important predictor of social and economic success and in some respects may even be more important than cognitive skills and knowledge. Challenging and high-quality education is what we are heading for in this context. When I listened to the Chamber yesterday, I was glad to hear that this challenge is shared by many here, and perhaps by everyone. Of course, you can differ on instruments and priorities, but I think we agree that education in the Netherlands is good for it and that there are opportunities but also threats that need to be addressed. That's not something we're gonna start with today. In recent years, we haven't been idle. In his contribution, Mr Duisenberg well recalled what has already happened in recent years to make education future-proof. I am thinking of the National Education Agreement with employers and employees two years ago, which led to a breakthrough in education sectors in order to start working in a forward-looking way, including in human resources policy. In order to improve the quality of the professionals and teacher training courses, we have set our ambitions in the Teachers' Agenda. I'll come back to the question about teacher training later. My ambition for recognizable, challenging and high-quality education is reflected in my strategic agenda for higher education. Educational institutions are already on their way to giving a quality boost. At universities, for example, I see more talent programmes and more practical research and associate degrees at colleges. To stimulate the quality culture in the MBO, we have made quality agreements with MBO institutions. Those agreements will apply from 1 January this year. We can take important steps forward with this. Next year, we will be able to reward MBO institutions for their results. For example, we have already achieved good results in tackling early school leaving, vs. Such a formula is not applicable everywhere, but I would like to encourage the MBO to achieve real improvement in certain areas. I also want to make MBO more flexible and enable institutions to respond quickly and effectively to the changing environment in the labour market. So we've achieved results. In several ways we can see that our students and students already have the talent and the potential in their homes. I liked that Mr Duisenberg mentioned two examples of fantastic results that students have achieved internationally. One is the World Solar Challenge, where the students of Delft have barely caught up with the students of Twente on the last day. Very modern I have sent a digital congratulation to New Zealand to compliment them on that. Otherwise it was with the MBO students who participated in the WorldSkills last summer in São Paulo. I was able to welcome them myself, physically, in São Paulo. I paid a lot of attention to them, but they didn't pay much attention to me. That was a good thing, because they were there doing the game of their lives. That required so much concentration and compassion that they knew somewhere that a delegation came along with a minister, but they were only doing their own work. With fantastic results, as Mr Duisenberg reminded us yesterday. Uncontested highlight is the gold medal for visual merchandising or display. It's not the first time we've scored very well. 17 Dutch MBO students have also won the title "excellent craftsmanship." Two weeks ago, I was with the excellents of the MBO at national level. It was a party to be there. 40 to 45 students who show something special, sometimes because they are fantastic professionals, sometimes because they have an important social mission and sometimes because they come from afar. The winner, who now has a small business to set up projects for cancer patients, has had a long school career and spent several years in boarding schools. His background made it difficult to get where he is now, but thanks to our accessible education system, in which you can stack, he now has his own business. I am very proud to see how much trust we can have with our youth in our future. We're not there yet. After all, we also have to face new challenges. Our education system is basically good, but education must also be able to respond to new developments and a changing demand for skills. These new forms of education, such as creator education, to which Mrs Jadnansing referred, are very important. It can be made in the sense of old crafts, which often get new appreciation. Making can also mean using new technology, 3D printers and all kinds of other tools. Making can also have a creative component. I also see beautiful initiatives in which, through a combination of culture and crafts, old techniques, such as printing presses, are used in a new way creatively. I think that there is still a great deal to be done to prepare young people for the future in a good way, especially if they are organized in a disciplinary manner. That is why I attach especially in the MBO to cross-overs because they can create new and surprising applications, such as the sensors in clothing developed at the Deltion College. A long-term strategy is also needed to address the skills of the future. That is where Mr Duisenberg and I find each other. I also recognise his list of the skills and attitudes needed for this: ambition, courage, knowledge, creativity, cooperation and perseverance. Whether that leads to those Nobel Prize winners he sees before him, we will see. At least we have enough talent. As far as the skills for the future are concerned, I have developed, together with the ESC and supported by the OECD, a skills strategy or, as Mr Duisenberg called it, a human capital agenda. We want to develop these for the Netherlands from the broad understanding of the skills or skills that matter, and from the broad idea that learning is not only done at school but also elsewhere and in connection with each other. The skills for the 21st century lie in the social, emotional and cognitive spheres. Teachers are crucial to the long-term strategy, because they are the human capital of education itself. Challenging education doesn't just happen. It requires a lot of teachers and teachers, but it also offers opportunities for inspiration and creativity. "Teaching isn't rocket science, it's harder," said Harvard professor Richard Elmore a few years ago. In education, he says, you don't just use your brain, you use your whole personality. That requires passion, creativity and also time. I'll share that with him. That's why we're going to invest in higher education in additional teachers. With the resources released by the introduction of the study advance, Mr Slob asked for this, we can really make visible improvements in quality. As a result, education can become smaller and more intensive. Even in the MBO, more small-scale and recognizable education is needed to achieve quality improvement, as Mr Rog argued. I very much agree with him that the times of large scale are over. MBO institutions should focus on providing challenging quality education that meets the needs of students and the regional labour market. Their ambition shouldn't be to become big, bigger, bigger. It doesn't help anyone. In fact, we will soon have another discussion about this when I come up with a letter on the future of small-scale education. Small is not only beautiful, because with the new challenges surrounding technology and cross-overs I have just mentioned the example of fashion and technology, but we also see a lot happening in the connection between care and technology. So you should not have too many standalone institutions, which are only concerned with their own survival. That's a complex assignment. I hope to be able to talk about how we can make vocational education more intensive and challenging and how we can give more space to institutions to be flexible and innovative. In addition, there is a need to continue with cross-overs experiments in qualifications. It is also necessary to develop choices with companies, which can be determined every three months, in order to encourage institutions to be much more responsive. Our students and students deserve to be optimally prepared for the challenges of the future. Personal involvement of students and students is also needed. Their input is part of the quality of education. Look at the initiatives we are developing with the Regional Investment Fund and at an initiative such as the Food Lab. This is a special cooperation between Zeeuwse vmbo and MBO schools, with which this initiative also makes an important contribution to cooperation and transit between Zeeuwse companies and organisations in the culinary field. The aim of Food Lab is to improve the quality of Zeeuwse catering companies and the Zeeuwse catering education. In a number of years the student is trained in everything that comes into gastronomy. Several Members of Parliament referred yesterday to the debate on social divisions. Of course, I was responsible for that myself because of the interview with me that Trouw published yesterday. I think this is an important theme, because you relate to a rapidly changing, increasingly diverse world requires openness and commitment. Where social divisions are at risk, education is also being looked at, and rightly so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u3	Before the Minister goes any further: I think Mr Duisenberg wanted to ask a question. He can now ask that question, because the Minister has moved on to another part of her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you for getting me out of the bench.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u5	You don't see much of that, do you?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u6	Indeed, it feels like school again! The Minister mentioned a skill strategy, which is being developed or would have been developed together with the ESC and the OECD. She referred to the human capital agenda I mentioned yesterday. Has that strategy been published or is it still coming? And what exactly is this strategy? Can I hear more about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u7	Yes, that is a question we have asked the OECD. This strategy will come in 2016 and will focus on how our education system can develop these skills and how we can best prepare the education system for the future. That also affects the theme that I have just started with, social divisions. How can we preserve the strengths of our system and adapt it to the challenges of the future? The ESC has recently presented to me a working document on social skills. I asked the Economic and Social Committee to take an active part in this, not by giving once again an opinion, but also by providing input for this skill strategy in other ways with interim programmes and working documents.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u8	A further specification: are "skills" specific skills or are these skills for the whole of society, for all people who take different types of training and work at different levels?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u9	It focuses on education as a whole, on what skills we need and how we need to adapt our system to it. So this is also about the question of what we are good at, where we can improve further or where challenges lie, for example, to move faster, to make education and vocational education more responsive in a general sense and perhaps to make transitions more flexible. Those are all questions that come with this. Several MPs have referred to the issue of social divisions. Others are also working on it. I refer to the reports of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau and the WRR and the cabinet response that Mr Asscher and I sent to it. It also expresses concerns about dividing lines. We can see that the Dutch education system has been an important motor for emancipation of workers' children, girls and immigrants in the last century. This work for emancipation still has education, sometimes for other groups as well. I was very pleased to hear Mr Beertema say that education is about emancipation and upliftment. We do not always agree, but we fully agree on this. At least I fully agree with Mr Bertema's statement; let me keep it to myself. That means that social origin should not count. It also means that an education system that promotes social inequality is in fact bankrupt, as Mr Van Meenen said. The education system must therefore always be challenged to continue to offer equal opportunities. We note that, at a time when social origin is less and talent is more likely, education itself could create new dividing lines, at least that we must prevent that from happening. As far as I am concerned, this is one of the major challenges for the future. After all, we want all students and students to be challenged and to be able to get the best out of themselves. I was glad that Mr Duisenberg also said that this applies not only to the happy few, but to everyone. Some members referred to recent reports suggesting that the educational opportunities of young people at a disadvantage are under pressure. That's a concern. It also calls for a reaction, in particular because a report has been mentioned from several quarters which would show that Dutch students are number one on a wrong list, namely the list of inequalities in mathematics and mathematics. Mr Grashoff and others referred to this. That report, from Michigan University, requires some nuance. Compared to their peers in other countries, Dutch children from low socio-economic environments are indeed less in contact with certain mathematical components. In concrete terms, children of low-income low-income parents are found to be more often on VMBO in the Netherlands. There they get different mathematics and other than HAVO and VWO. However, it would be shortsighted to draw far-reaching conclusions only on the basis of this statistics. Because we look further, then we see that we are still doing well internationally compared on this point. The abovementioned study by Michigan University also shows that the overall impact of the socio-economic status of pupils in the Netherlands is average. So we're doing pretty good on that. In addition, although we select early, we manage to give many young people a chance through uplifting and stacking. OECD called that a good practice in 2012. The assignment of stacking, flowing and upflow is therefore of paramount importance. Mr Van Meenen rightly referred to that yesterday. He said that a modern and forward-looking education system should enable upflow, flow, customization and stacking. I totally agree with him. I would like to add that OECD and international investigations have shown that we are still doing well in this area. I say'still good' because, as far as I am concerned, we cannot rest on our laurels. That's why I come back to the review I just mentioned. We have asked the OECD to check our system for the performance it delivers. How can our education system continue to provide equal educational opportunities and accessibility in the rapidly changing world around us? We are not going to wait until we have that investigation, because we are not sitting still now either. We are working hard on the accessibility and flexibility of our system; Mr Grashoff asked for it. It is indeed a responsibility of the whole of education to promote positive elements such as flow and to counter possible negative incentives, including financial ones. It is important to ensure that students and students are put in the right place. The core of the system is that parents in the foundation education choose where to register their child. This is their first move. If a school wants to implement an admission policy, such as denomination or priority for children from the neighbourhood, it must always be applied consistently and transparently. In addition, schools have a duty of care specific to students who need additional support. In higher education, additional requirements are laid down where it is necessary for students to have the right knowledge and pre-training for a study. This happens, for example, with the pabos, who were also mentioned yesterday. Moreover, we have to see that this leads to better results; I thought Mr Duisenberg noticed that. We'll have to see about that. I will keep my finger on the pulse to see whether we will have less failure in the first year with stricter admission requirements and whether students are better placed. Additional requirements may also be laid down in the MBO for pre-training and, where appropriate, in subjects required for a given vocational training. It is always important to ensure optimal matching between student and training. If demands can be made, they must be relevant. Good choice of study is therefore of paramount importance. If a student makes an unexpected choice for a sector in which there is hardly any work, there must be an opportunity to change training. That is why I have legislation for the MBO in preparation to require intake interviews. In higher education, we already have one. They work well there, also to make students aware of the challenges that training requires. Since spring, MBOs have been legally obliged to provide objective information to future students. This is often done in the form of a study leaflet. This should prevent prospective students from making a choice that they later regret on the basis of a misconception of training. Furthermore, I will advance the deadline for the registration of vmbo and havoleerlingen who switch to the MBO to April 1st. By advancing the application time, it is possible to talk to these young people earlier about the connection of the training with their talents and their future opportunities in the labour market. This requires further professionalisation of the system of intake, selection and placement. That is why I intend to have a right of admission in the MBO enshrined in the law. We do have a right of admission in other sectors, but not in the MBO. With this measure, I ensure that young people choose a study in a good way, which fits their talents, motivation and interests. In doing so, I also ensure that schools fulfil their responsibility to get the best out of young people. If a student wishes to make a switch or continue studying at a higher level of MBO or in higher vocational education, this is of course possible. In the MBO the funding is not limited to one training course and there is enough room to stack. In the strategic agenda for higher education, we also focus on continuing attention to study success, drop-out, studywitch and study duration by investing in improving study choice processes, strengthening collaboration with vo-schools and MBO institutions, and providing more tailor-made and mentoring by tutors and mentors. Funds are also available from the study advance for increased cooperation between vocational schools, MBO institutions and higher education institutions in the region. This can be done in the context of educational guidance and preparation for higher education. I myself think it is very nice, also in the context of combating separate worlds, that in some regions there is very good cooperation between MBO, HBO and wo. We were just talking about the World Solar Challenge, which takes place with universities. However, there are many more initiatives around solar teams. I know that in certain regions MBOs, HBOs and wo'ers work together fantasticly. The MBOs are especially good at making. The HBOs are good at translating technical knowledge into practice. The wo-students come up with very clever new things. They perceive and realize that they need each other to move forward. As far as I am concerned, that is a metaphor for the whole education system: we need each other. Mbo, Hbo and wo need each other, as we also need the human capital agenda to further develop the Dutch economy and society. I would like to mention more cooperation and extra attention, including in the strategic agenda, for MBOs in the transition to HBO, including through joint programmes for MBO and HBO. I would also draw attention to greater cooperation between higher education institutions, including between colleges and universities, in order to allow more flexible programmes for students. These are all forms to shape throughput, upflow and customization. I will also have research conducted into the effects of an additional financial contribution on the composition of the student population. We start with higher education, for example to honours courses and university lectures. We're looking for a connection to ongoing research. I share the concerns of Mr Van Dijk and Mrs Jadnansing about the gap between rich and poor when it comes to participation in additional educational support initiatives, i.e. shadow education. Expenditure on this type of education is still relatively small and takes place outside the reach of the government, but I would like to know what the possible effects are. If the research we are going to do in higher education shows that there are indeed undesirable effects, then we need to draw conclusions from that and see whether there is any reason to do research in other sectors as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u10	Were you done with this cup?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u11	No, Mr. Chairman. Do you want me to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u12	Maybe that's useful, because almost everyone needs to be interrupted.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u13	In this context, I would also like to answer Mrs Jadnansing's question on the content of citizenship education, particularly in the MBO, because this question is also about combating social divisions. Citizenship education is very important to involve young people in society and to teach them to reflect critically. Vocational education is therefore about more than just professional skills. In the MBO, therefore, there is a threefold qualification: training for the labour market, for further education and for full citizenship in society. In my view, citizenship education makes a valuable contribution to the student's identity building. Students of today form tomorrow's society. They should therefore be well prepared for that future society. I think it is important to share good examples, such as the LEF method, which you know. In doing so, I support the development of the platform on citizenship for teachers, to promote knowledge sharing of good examples, teaching methods and courses. In this context, education on standards and values is also important; Mr Beertema referred to this. In my opinion, this is widely shared in the Netherlands. This also applies to the history of our country, which is an important part of it. The general citizenship mission to education and the key objectives and final terms provide a legal basis for this. These themes can be addressed in different ways in education, for example in history and social studies, in citizenship education, in cultural education and in Dutch. A good example of culture in relation to education is the recently reopened Museum Ons' Dear Lord on Solder in Amsterdam, which is in the middle of the Walls. Together with VMBO and MBO teachers, they develop a program about respect and dealing with each other. That's about religious diversity on the one hand, because they're in a church there. On the other hand, it is about prostitution and everything that happens on the Walls, because that is the other view they have there. This co-production, in this case of culture and teachers, is very appealing to me. The dynamic labour market poses major challenges for vulnerable young people, particularly in the MBO. Therefore, I give schools, MBO institutions and municipalities extra space to offer customised courses. We keep vulnerable young people on board by putting the specific talents and learning needs of young people first. This requires good study and career guidance, especially at levels 1 and 2. Too often I hear stories from young people, mostly with a non-western background, who get a vmbo advice but get nines or tens. So something went wrong in there somewhere: they have much more to offer. The Economic and Social Committee recently issued an alert to the Chamber and to me on this subject, with useful ideas, in my view, on the importance of paying more attention to what is actually for sale in the world in terms of study and LOB. It is important to stress the importance of a good choice of study, because it is precisely there that a choice of study is sometimes made which is not linked to the labour market. It's also about increasing the importance of your network and thinking about how to get in touch with people and develop entrances and networks. This is particularly important for this group. It is therefore one of the elements on which I intend to work in the coming period in the context of the fight against dividing lines.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u14	I forgot what the title of this block was, but I like to think so in "education."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u15	Social divisions, I have here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u16	Oh, yeah, social divides. In my contribution, I said a few things about the current education system. I compared it to a shufflebox model. In her reply, the Minister states that the system we now know is not yet bankrupt, but that there are serious concerns about it. I have therefore asked for the question of what kind of an order should look like which really offers opportunities, which promotes up- and down-stream, which has smooth transitions and so on, also to be submitted to the Education Council rather than just to the OECD. In the written reply, the Minister refers to the research in the framework of Education 2032 and the customized diplomas, but that is all within the framework of the system as we know it now. So my question is whether the Minister is prepared to ask the Education Council to conduct a study, involving many parties in education, into a different system.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u17	Yeah, but I don't want to do everything at once. We have now turned off that review at OECD. I find that interesting because there is international knowledge there and they have a huge database there that they can draw on. They talk to a lot of sections in the Netherlands; they've been to my place too. I want to see what comes out of it. We have asked the ESC to think along the same lines and, if necessary, to come up with initiatives. It is quite conceivable that a follow-up question will go to the Education Council. Moreover, I note that the Education Council has already given numerous opinions. Not so long ago, the Education Council presented an opinion to us on transitions in education. So this is actually an ongoing process. I just want to avoid putting a few investigations away somewhere and we're gonna think we're gonna be there with that. The mission is too important to stand still. So I'm not ruling it out, and I'd like to have that debate with the Chamber if that OECD report next year is there to see what we can learn from it, what needs to be further worked out and how we can involve the Education Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u18	I think it's a curious order. We ourselves have in this country the Education Council, which is supposed to advise us and the government on education. He doesn't close his eyes to what happens abroad either. It is, of course, a good thing that the Minister would like to ask the Education Council for advice in response to relatively destructive reports from the OECD. But why not just at the same time at the Education Council, which knows the current order like no other, ask how in the Netherlands, knowing the situation here and knowing our ambitions, we can set up an order that does, so that we can stop the strings, the tape and the curved nails with which we try to make something of the current order?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u19	I must first correct Mr Van Meenen. It is not the case that the OECD has written a destructive report on the Netherlands. In fact, the Netherlands comes out of the OECD studies, and I refer to PISA and PIAAC in general. As I said, the transition in the Netherlands has been presented by the OECD as a good practice. Only, we're not easily satisfied. So we want more. The Education Council does nothing but advise the government on parts of it, also at the request of the Chamber. I know that a number of investigations are now under way. For example, I refer to research on the strategic agenda for higher education, where the Council advises on the accessibility of higher education, for example for non-Western immigrants. This is an important issue for me, which I am working on. We must be careful that we do not want to develop a kind of grand design and perhaps ignore the lessons that the Dijsselbloem Committee drew at the time with the agreement of this Chamber. I want to work on picking up problems where I see them all the time. I'm not blind to that. That is why I am going to initiate that research on possible effects of own contributions in higher education. But that needs to be focused on a question. Otherwise, it's getting too general. I fear that we will be unable to draw any meaningful conclusions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u20	I have a point of order. We've been listening to the Minister for almost 45 minutes. I have two interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u21	We didn't agree on numbers, but you just had the opportunity to interrupt on this part. You may also come back to it later, but an interruption really goes into a question and a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u22	I understand that, Mr. Chairman. I just have a second interruption. I wouldn't mind standing in the back of the line, I don't care, but I'd like to interrupt on another very different subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u23	I shall begin by giving Mr Grashoff the floor on this part.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u24	I like to do that, but not after I have also said that a system with cubes works if those cubes are short and concise. Otherwise we should work with shorter blocks, because then the debate will really be very unhappy. I also don't feel so pleasant about such a long story, where you have to take back on something that has been said 15 minutes ago. The minister sketches an image around flow and flow, saying we're still doing well. We have signals from the Education Inspectorate and the Education Council that at least we are not doing as well as we would like. I want to be careful to use too many words here. The Minister is that, if I understand her correctly, with me, but then I expect the Minister to come up with a number of concrete things to really remove obstacles to the flow and flow of goods. It's gonna get really skinny. I see an early registration date emerging. That seems to me to be an additional threshold rather than one that is being removed. I see intake calls coming back. They seem to me to be a nice but as good an additional threshold as they are to remove it. I hear something about learning rights in the MBO. I think that is a positive element, but I am very curious to see what this means in concrete terms, particularly in the MBO. There I see examples of pupils with a certain deviation who have been denied one MBO training, then go to another MBO training and are simply adopted there. I just don't think that's possible. I would ask the Minister to be more specific and clearer, otherwise I shall be going to ask a motion on the real removal of obstacles to influx and transit.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u25	I do not share Mr Grashoff's view that an early registration would restrict the flow of electricity, quite the contrary. I am also looking at it in the context of combating early school leaving. We find that between vmbo and mbo we lose many students because they have started doing something else, because they forget to register, because no one knows them anymore and so they can not be missed and addressed. This early registration is, of course, also the responsibility of the student, together with the school where he or she comes from. That will often be vmbo or havo. It serves to ensure that you are held and that you are given thought about what are the best opportunities for you to take the next step. Next, I would like to state that I am going to formulate a right of admission in the law, that precisely the problem you are trying to solve is to ensure that a student is admitted to one school, while he is not admitted to another school with exactly the same paper, that is to say the same diploma, and that he does not know why he or she is admitted to another school. In the MBO we are going to introduce electives next year at the end. This means that tailor-made programmes can be provided there to stimulate the transition from MBO to HBO. With the resources from the study advance, we are creating opportunities to exchange more between vo-schools, mbo-schools and higher education at regional level, to ensure that people can once study, that they learn what it means to be in HBO or in a university. These are all ways of preventing social divisions. If Mr Grashoff has any suggestions to make in this respect, I am of course open to doing so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u26	I am very positive about the right of admission in the MBO. I have only expressly indicated that it really needs to be very sharp, so: what does it have to do with the heels? An early date I find a minor thing, if it would contribute, and really not so significant. I am also afraid of the opposite effect: unfortunately, you are too late, because the date has expired. That effect may also occur. Finally, the Minister asks the counter question that if I have any suggestions, she will be happy to hear them. In my first term, I mentioned eleven examples of obstacles to access and transit. How many does the Minister want?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u27	I have just referred to some of them myself. It is more a question of what we can do against the possible limitations that exist. You're gonna have to check that out. I am not convinced that the factors on Mr Grashoff's list are by definition all obstructive. It is also important, for example, to inform students properly. I do not hear many specific suggestions from him. He says that early registration can lead to you being late and the date has expired. That is not the experience we have in higher education. That is where we learn that students are entitled to a study-choice check, but that they are still admissible. We have to start from the facts. I am genuinely trying to see what we can learn in one education sector from initiatives we have developed in the other education sector. This is one of them. It entitles the student to a study choice check. It also requires students to prepare themselves. It's easier for one person than for the other. That is why I also refer to all initiatives on career guidance, particularly in the MBO, where there are many young people who may be less self-evident and less self-evident in developing that social network. So they know what's for sale in the world. In my view, this is a practical and also substantial contribution to countering possible dividing lines.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u28	First of all, I agree with the others, Mr President. It is difficult to debate when so many different issues come across in one big block and we have to limit ourselves to one short interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u29	I am going to say something about this, Mr Van Dijk, because that remark was made by Mr Van Meenen, by Mr Grashoff and now by you, and yesterday the Chamber had more than five hours to make its contribution. I think it is a good thing that the rulers are given the room to deal with what the Chamber has brought in. That also means that I am fine with the answer being given in cubes, which sounds very disrespectful, but it concerns a number of issues that are divided into categories............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. I just can't do the last one. I made that choice as chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u30	I fully agree with that, Mr President, but this block is only very large. It really goes from small to large, all over education.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u31	I understand that, but an interruption by Mr Van Meenen has just taken five minutes. Mr Grashoff asked a question: two minutes. It's all kept up to date. It is also up to the Chamber to formulate briefly and forcefully and concisely. I know that's a great gift. I would say: if it is short, I want to meet you there, but not unlimited.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u32	Van Meenen was in five minutes?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u33	Yeah, with his interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u34	Let's see if I can get over that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u35	Well, then I'm gonna step in.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u36	I'm kidding! The Minister notes a gap between rich and poor and she notes segregation. She's worried about that. She wants to make upliftment her theme. Fantastic! I think that is very good, because it is points that touch the heart of my party. I just asked a question yesterday about her timing. Isn't it a little cheap to say in the office's after-hours that we should explore that gap? This, while the Minister has done nothing over the past three years but call for matters such as "excellency," "differentiation," "borrowing system" and "thresholds" and did nothing about segregation in education and black and white schools. Doesn't she think her timing is a little late?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u37	I indicated at the beginning of my speech that we have not been idle. Perhaps I do not agree with Mr Van Dijk, but we have taken measures recently. I refer to the spectacular results in combating early school leaving. That's crucial if you want to give everyone a chance. I refer to the strategic agenda, with which, thanks to the parties who have supported the study advance, we now have the means to stimulate the transition from MBO to HBO for children who may not get it from home. This has led to additional contributions to higher education being reduced at individual level. We can now improve quality from public resources. I note that we are thinking about the places where differentiation is and is not in place. I am thinking, for example, of associate degrees. That's important for the step from MBO to HBO if you don't want to do another four-year education, if you may not have the confidence that four years is an option for you. Then you can try to take that first step in two years and go from there to the labour market. I call everything we do around lifelong learning. This is particularly important for vulnerable MBO levels. There are fewer opportunities in the labour market. They are all measures that we have taken. Indeed, this is a theme that will continue to keep my attention. In the interrupting debate with Mr Grashoff, I have already mentioned a number of new measures which we will take in the coming period. If studies show that more is needed, then I will take action.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u38	We have just heard a whole series of measures, which I wonder if anyone has followed. It was a real mess. I would like to congratulate the Minister on her concern about the gap between low-chance and high-chance. Good education must fight that gap; that is the foundation. The Minister rightly points out that the emancipation and upliftment function of education is at risk. Segregation is something that not only this minister does nothing about, but in fact nothing has been done about it in the last 20 years. Deliberately, black and white schools have emerged. This cabinet says it's not gonna do anything about it. I admit it's hard to do something about it, but if you really fall back, I'm also looking at the Secretary of State, then you're sure the segregation can grow quietly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u39	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u40	I find it rather cheap to say in the aftermath of this cabinet: we are going to investigate the division. This is said when the Minister has been in office for three years and the problems have been going on for a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u41	First of all, a comment on the term 'afternoon' used by Mr Van Dijk. We still have a time to go and we still have a lot of ambitions to fulfil. Like the last few years, they are also in this area. Mr Van Dijk is actually asking me to implement the SP election programme. No, I'm not. I really have to disappoint him in that. I am taking other measures, for example in relation to vsv, but also in relation to tackling discrimination in traineeships. I will ensure that there is a transition to the labour market for all young people in the MBO. I refer to the right of admission and the intensification of citizenship education. As far as I am concerned, all these elements are important to counter social divisions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u42	I hear the Minister saying that she has the ambition to really do something about these separate worlds. It won't surprise anyone that that's doing me a great job. In replying to my questions in writing, it is always stated that strengthening this is a focus of attention. At the moment things are still not going very well with a real plan of approach. The Minister was right to compliment me on this very selfish approach to the LEF method (listening, empathy, feedback), which I myself developed. I see that we still do not have enough tools in schools to engage in really difficult conversations, to actually ensure that young people are talking to each other about white, black, green, purple purple, which doesn't really matter. People are afraid of such conversations. I think that's a big concern. We said last year that we should do something about this. The Minister and the Secretary of State have said that they will do something about it. One year after that, however, questions are asked again. Once again, it is said that reinforcement deserves attention. I don't want to stand here again next year and then get another one of those answers. The Minister states that he has the ambition to really draw attention to this in a different way. So what are we really gonna do? Again, I don't want to be here again next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u43	I understand Mrs. Jadnansing's concern very well. At first I told you that we live in a turbulent world. There's a lot of education coming in. Also in connection with "Charlie Hebdo," we had discussions about what that meant for teachers who had students in the classroom who denied what had happened in Paris and who might now radicalize them. We have put an action programme on that so that teachers know what to do and where to go. There is also a website about safety at school. The Secretary of State and I have both been actively involved in meetings in the country where, often on the basis of role-playing, what happens in a classroom was reenacted and what you can do. I have sent a letter on citizenship, in which I indicate that I will continue to strengthen citizenship education in the MBO. Unfortunately, that doesn't mean that things are getting better from one day to the next. I don't have that wand. We know better now what we can do, but it's not ideal yet. I fear that in the coming years, with everything that happens internationally, this will remain a focus of attention. However, I cannot emphasise enough how important good citizenship education is, bearing in mind what I said at the beginning. You want people to meet, get together and move around in each other's lives. You also want them to know where a border is and that you shouldn't cross it. We need to be clear about that too. It will therefore remain a constant point of attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u44	I understand the Minister's saying this. However, I fear that we have a reality in The Hague, in which we only write down everything. It cannot be that I hear every Monday and Friday during my teacher visits: help us! Last week, too, that was the case. I understand the Minister, but at the same time I hope she understands that I remain concerned. It cannot be that we are calling for everything here and then the teachers in all these schools are wondering what to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u45	In last year's plans, we have explicitly tried to think from the teacher and the teacher in front of the class, and not from the reality of The Hague. That is why we have organised several meetings and have been on a working visit. We've seen what we can learn from others. We have organised conferences, and we will continue to do so. [[Sentence could not be parsed: We zullen ook degenen die daartussen zitten aanspreken, zoals schoolleiders en bestuurders van scholen.]] They too must help their teachers and teachers to deal with this in a good way. If the Chamber has any suggestions or hear things that we can do something with, I am very happy to hear them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u46	First of all, I would like to support the Minister in her approach. For example, it indicated that an OECD study is being carried out, which will be reported next year. The Education Council has carried out a study on better transitions in education. It is wise to first rely on the insights contained therein. I would also like to ask colleagues who ask questions here to be present when the OECD comes here to speak and explain what is being done. Then they will also know what it is about. The report on transitions in education states that these transitions are not going well. Three good recommendations are made. One of these recommendations is about improving career development and guidance. What, and in what way, can the Minister set something in motion that puts this subject at a higher level? It depends very much on where that course is given. How can we realize that all over the country for all these students? I also ask this because the Education Council points out that this choice is very important and that it must be designed in a very good way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u47	I agree with Mr Duisenberg. Mrs Jadnansing asked questions about this yesterday. I have just said that it is very important to improve career orientation and guidance (LOB). That goes for the vo and the mbo. It is precisely to make a good choice of study, a choice that also helps you in your later life and when you enter the labour market, it is important to know what is possible. So it shouldn't stick with a dean handing out some flyers. It needs to be taken seriously. In recent years, the Secretary of State and I have set up incentive projects to strengthen LOB in vo and mbo. So that's already been done. Together with and through schools has worked on professionalisation. Tools have been developed to support the vision and policy of career guidance. I'm not happy yet. Especially with the vmbo you see, for example in the JOB monitor, that more needs to be done. The MBO evaluates the effects of the incentive programme and identifies what else is needed. I will send both the evaluation and the follow-up plan on LOB in the MBO to the Chamber in the spring of next year. That is why I use this alert from the ESC, which also contains concrete suggestions. Furthermore, this year the Chamber will receive a letter from the Minister of Social Affairs and I on the integration of education into the labour market, youth unemployment and relations with vs. Career and learning pathways will also be an important part of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u48	I hear the Minister talking about initiatives and an incentive plan. I have a great deal of appreciation for that, but it is non-binding, see, for example, the offer to have a best practice copied by others. That's all very noncommittal. As a matter of fact, I have been allowed to conduct practical research into the LOB course in several schools. I can tell the Minister that it is my experience that there are enormous differences. I therefore urge the Minister and the Secretary of State to make it less uncommittal in the way they still have to work on the sectors.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u49	I'd be happy to take that with me, because I agree with you that it shouldn't be too non-committal. Hence my emphasis on professionalisation. Of course, it has to offer customization, because on these themes you cannot work with "one size fits all" and take care of schools. It is very important that serious work is done; it should not be something for it. Professionalisation is now under way. The tools have been developed and we are going to evaluate it in the MBO to determine what else is possible. Good practices are also being inventoried at the moment. They will be incorporated into a hand-out, which will meet Mrs Jadnansing's request from an earlier consultation. We'll spread that handshake. I would add that we will also look at what we can do to ensure that it is actually used.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u50	The Minister pointed out the idea of "citizenship." I did so in the first term, and that is why I am asking her whether she recognizes that the field of education is actually undermining the whole idea of citizenship. In Almere, we have seen an anti-Westernlio-stakeholder who said that cities like London, Paris and Amsterdam are enemies of Islam. Someone has claimed that the IS was a conspiracy of the Jews. On the vwo is a school book in use which states that the State of Israel could be founded by Jewish bankers blackmailing the British. One in five history teachers in the Randstad is anxious to teach at all about the Holocaust. Does the Minister recognise that the whole idea of citizenship is being undermined by the field of education itself in this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u51	No, I don't recognize that. I note, however, that it is a major task for teachers to deal with difficult issues such as the Holocaust, radicalisation and IS. I would very much like to support them in engaging in that difficult conversation, listening to different views and then making it clear where the border is and indicating that we do not accept it if someone crosses a border. I generally see that teachers of all kinds of subjects of compassion and understanding are working on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u52	I can indeed expect the Ministry to support those teachers when they have to talk about difficult issues. I was just saying that in the vwo teaching material there is in use that undermines that whole idea. I was talking about alio-trainee who says very cheerfully to the class that certain cities, including Amsterdam, are enemies of Islam and that IS is a conspiracy of the Jews. It seems very unhealthy to me when future teachers give that kind of crazy ideas to students.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u53	Therefore, engaging in these kinds of conversations is an important part of teacher training. You can do that under the heading "citizenship" and "bildung." This can be done in MBO courses under the heading of "circulation." I've been to work there on a regular basis. I note that it is not always easy for teachers, but it must be learned there. I agree that it is an absolute focus on teacher training to know how to engage in a conversation and how to indicate where a limit lies.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u54	I'd like to take a look back at career orientation. It is rightly referred to as a very important part of the curriculum. It was mainly about the MBO, but I'd like to talk about the VMBO. We will soon have the new profiles; at least I assume that there is a majority in the Chamber. For three learning paths career orientation is compulsory, but for the theoretical learning path, say the Mavo, is not. Is that right? If so, why is there an exception?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u55	I suggest that Mrs Siderius should put that question to the Secretary of State later. He will answer the questions in the field of political cooperation. This question is specifically about the Vo, so I would like to leave it to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u56	I have a list of the subjects that need to be dealt with. Maybe it's useful to share that with the room. Then we know which subjects are still being discussed. Perhaps this will be possible after Mr Beertema's interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u57	I would like to continue on the subject of citizenship, which was also mentioned by Mr Van Klaveren. I asked what the Minister was like in the first term. We've spent 30 years working on all kinds of well-meaning forms of citizenship. It's getting a little more intense now and here and there, some plasters are being taped. However, the final net result is that there is currently a massively segregated society. In the big cities there are complete parallel societies of the second and third generation, which deliberately turn away from our society. We've been working on it for 30 years. Now there's going to be some letters and there's going to be some intensification. Shouldn't the Minister acknowledge that 30 years has just been lost in education? Surely there is something fundamentally wrong in education, in the way we deal with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u58	I have tried earlier to point out that attention should be paid to combating social divisions, but fortunately we do not yet have parallel societies, as Mr Beertema does see. I see that education can play an important role in bringing people together. Above all, we must ensure that education fulfils this role. As I said, we do not yet have a system of dividing lines, but we have to work on that. Yeah, and society around us is changing, too. Everything that happens internationally has its effect in class sooner or later. That's never finished. Citizenship and the way we deal with each other always call for a certain maintenance. At this time they even ask for more than maintenance, they ask for an extra impulse.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u59	The Minister is playing it down a bit now. The Kolenkitbuurt in Amsterdam, Rotterdam-Zuid and the Schilderswijk in The Hague are simply parallel societies. We also see this in London and in the banlieues in Paris: everywhere it is the same. The French army has even indicated that sharing the banlieus wants to take back for the Republic. That is the current situation: there is war in large parts of Europe's major cities. Of course, you can't say here: well, I don't see it yet. Look at this urgency, Minister, and why don't you take a completely different approach, because this citizenship education doesn't work? It's only gonna get worse. We are now moving on with the third generation, which has turned away from our society even more than the first generation. Something's wrong, isn't it, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u60	Mr Beertema outlines generalities that I do not recognize. Look, I will not deny that in the big cities in the Netherlands and in other countries too, there may be even more problems there. Those are areas where the problems accumulate. But that is not just a problem of education. Mr Beertema will also discuss this with colleagues of mine. Can education do something about that? I see that the third generation on the MBO, the HBO and the university are making a huge blow. This makes education still an emancipation machine, especially for new groups and often for non-Western immigrants. The fact that at the same time there is a group on which I am deeply concerned, which radicalizes and threatens to lock itself in one's own community, I totally agree with Mr Beertema. But you can't put that in the whole education system. You're gonna have to find some solutions for that. Then I come to the letter we wrote earlier this year on citizenship and combating radicalisation, in the knowledge that this is not a task that can only be placed in education. This is particularly important in which colleagues from V and J and SZW have an important role to play. We do everything we can to make our contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u61	Even "something completely different": the agenda of the VVD says that selection at the port should become much more possible in MBO, HBO and at the university. At the same time, the Minister talks about securing an admission right. Does she agree with D66 that we now have to put an end to the myth that selection at the gate contributes to the quality of education?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u62	It's about quality and accessibility. Let me confine myself to saying that the coalition agreement contains a passage which states that, on top of what is already being selected, for example for artistic courses and university lectures, there will be no further selection at the door.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u63	I consider this to be the reassuring idea that that part of the VVD agenda is not being implemented by this minister. Despite this, a number of institutions are constantly looking at ways forward. Earlier we talked about the increasing number of numeri fixi in this country. What is the state of the investigation on this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u64	I will answer that question in the second term, because this too is a complex question. It concerns the transition from numeri fixi to decentralised selection. It is about how long credits remain valid, and perhaps it is also about the BSA. This seems to me to be a discussion that we should actually have within the framework of the strategic agenda. That is what we are discussing at the beginning of December. In procedural terms, I will answer the question in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u65	Then I suggest that you inform the Chamber of the subjects to be dealt with.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u66	I can help you and the Chamber, because I have arrived at a number of themes that are somewhat shorter and clearer. I will start with the MBO school costs, then come to teacher training, the integration of education into the labour market, green education, lifelong learning and the consequences of the study advance, and end with the funding. I'll start with MBO school fees. As far as I am concerned, everyone should have the opportunity to develop their talents, and financial obstacles should not stand in the way of this. Mr Van Dijk, Mr Grashoff and Mrs Jadnansing commented on this. They have also said that financial obstacles, such as excessive school costs, are unacceptable. I agree. High school costs can be caused by books, computers and equipment. For example, when you go to chef's school, you need knives. If you do a furniture maker or carpenter training, you need tools. You can also ask for a contribution to that. However, it must not threaten accessibility and must not lose valuable qualities and talents of young people. I too achieve signals from students who have to pay high school fees, for example high administrative costs when ordering textbooks. I recently heard the example of an intern at an MBO school who had to order her books through the school and pay €100 administrative costs. I don't think that's the idea. The point is that textbooks or other things you need can be bought as cheaply as possible. A school together with the student has a responsibility in that. So the costs for the student and the parents should be kept as low as possible. School boards are responsible for dealing reluctantly and soberly with additional school costs. This should also be the subject of consultation with student councils.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u67	What am I gonna do about it? Firstly, I am currently preparing a proposal to improve quality aspects in MBO, which strengthens participation in school cost policy. By allowing students to talk about school costs, too high a cost can be maintained from that point of view. Secondly, if financial problems arise for students and parents as a result of high school costs, the school must work together with the student and the parents to find a solution to this problem. I therefore call on educational institutions to act vigorously in order to ensure access to education. If I get signals that there are bottlenecks and that it can be done better, I will call on educational institutions to do so. Another example of an undesirable situation is that, if you want to order equipment or books, you can only link through the school's website to the website of a publisher of school books. And that's also the only way to find out what you actually need, while there might be other ways to do it much cheaper, for example through a second-hand bookstore or a site like bol.com. I think schools should point out to students other ways of getting their school supplies as cheap as possible. I shall therefore urge them to do so as a matter of urgency. I will also consult with the MBO Council and the JOB to see how we can support educational institutions to choose the right solutions. I also call on students to be creative and think for themselves about how to do things differently, and not just look at the channels offered by the school. If that kind of signals can be collected, perhaps via the JOB, then we can spread them. So it doesn't have to be all through that one link from the school to a textbook publishing house, because that sounds very much like forced shopping. The school must therefore also mention other options. I also welcome initiatives such as the Foundation's Leergeld initiative to set up a training fund. This can solve any problems in common, in particular because the capacity of students could vary from institution to institution. One institution can have many students with financial problems, while the other may not have anything to do with it at all. However, I think that we need to look closely at how such a fund should be filled and what criteria will apply to it. I will have to develop this further in consultation with those involved. I will discuss this with the MBO Council and the Leergeld Foundation. I also see other good examples of institutions that are actively committed to this. For example, there are already schools which offer the possibility of a payment scheme, which offer the possibility of borrowing educational supplies or which themselves have an emergency fund that can be used. I think it is important that we solve as many problems as possible first of all at school level. As far as I am concerned, that should be some kind of provision. Furthermore, I have to find out how many students are unable to pay for the costs of taking an MBO course and therefore do not start training. I expect to have more insight into that next school year. Finally, the inspection looks at the school cost policy and the voluntary contribution, and also conducts the discussion with student councils. In the event of signals of incorrect policy, the inspection shall carry out further investigations. In the event of unacceptable school costs, the inspection is necessary. I think schools should really be addressed in this respect. I will also ask the inspection to include this in the regular investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u68	Mr Van Dijk has a question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u69	In my view, this is in line with the minister's previous block, namely her concern about the division. This is a very concrete point, which shows that children who do not have a lot of money from home experience a threshold in the form of high school costs. Sometimes they're not even allowed to attend class. That is really serious, because they are subject to compulsory schooling. The Minister also mentions a whole series of measures here, but I believe that the bottomline is that a child who signs up for training always comes in. The Minister mentioned the possibility of a fund in case there are too high costs. However, the question is whether it is going to provide the necessary budget. The deficit would be between EUR 16 and EUR 17 million.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u70	I indicated at the beginning of this block that the accessibility of Dutch vocational education cannot be called into question and that everyone should be able to go to training. At the same time, you can ask people, including students, to invest where it can itself in the necessities that remain their own, such as a toolbox. It is then the responsibility of the school not to make it unnecessarily expensive, to think about ways in which it can be cheaper, for example second-hand, or to set up a fund itself and have a number of toolboxes at school that can be lent out. Secondly, I said that it might be appropriate, in addition to this, to establish such a fund. I'm going to discuss this with the MBO Council and the Leergeld Foundation. I think that's the right order. We should not start at the same time with the resources needed for this. I cannot confirm what Mr Van Dijk has heard.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u71	It started out hopefully, but it ends up a little bit with a damper. The Minister has also seen the broadcast of Nieuwsuur. She herself mentioned examples of high costs for students. At Nieuwsuur we saw students sitting at home because of the high costs. And then I look at the minister, because she's responsible for this. The Minister must prevent this from happening within the current system. She doesn't want to talk about those amounts, which come from the Foundation Leergeld. The minister's gonna consult. It should be a little more concrete. The Minister might as well say, "I'm gonna make sure all those kids come in, because I'm responsible for the MBO and I'm gonna get a solid fund," right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u72	I repeat what I said at the beginning, even though I do not know how to say it more clearly. Access to vocational education and training cannot be called into question. It is therefore unacceptable that people should not be able to attend education for financial reasons. That is different from saying that we are going to fill a fund right now if we do not even know what schools can do themselves, how it can be cheaper and when it is reasonable to ask for a contribution from students and parents. You said I'm all about points. I think I have five very specific points to make, and I am going to implement them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u73	The idea that comes to my mind is: what is the definition of "unacceptable high"? The Minister has mentioned examples, but we could be of some use if the norm is clear: what is acceptable and what is not acceptable? I do not think that can be taken up in one single number, but I think there is a great need for a standard that indicates what is acceptable and what is not acceptable. Does the Minister see opportunities for that? And would she like to make an effort to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u74	No, because I think that these standards, especially for vocational education, are very difficult to give. What you need to do in order to do your training and in order to be able to practice your profession properly can be different and therefore different from one course to another. I am concerned that these costs should not be unnecessarily high. A form in which you are only referred to a publishing house without thinking about how it can be cheaper or where you have to pay administrative costs should not, as far as I am concerned, be the norm. I would like to see tailor-made work on top of that. In my opinion, anyone who advocates a fund is looking at customization; this also applies to schools that have such a fund themselves. This includes a responsibility of the school and a responsibility of the parents and students. So that also depends on what someone can do for themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u75	If I run into something in a specific situation that I wonder is acceptable, I would appreciate it if I could get some indication of what the government thinks is acceptable or not acceptable. That's what she's government for. In my view, it is not the Minister's duty to give an indication of this simply to run away by saying that this cannot be taken in a simple number and that this is different from that of other training. My question remains therefore whether the Minister is prepared to give some indication of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u76	Yes, but I don't want to set a standard. I said that getting an investigation done is one of the points I am working on. This study should show how many students cannot pay for their MBO training and therefore cannot start training. This will give an indication of the problem, the number of people involved and the financial obstacles. If that's what you mean, you'll be served at your beck and call.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u77	I see and hear that the Minister is really looking for a solution to this annoying problem that has been going on for a long time. Together with Mrs Siderius, I have asked many questions about this. Maybe the Minister can explain something to me, because I don't think I understand. The Minister says that she sees the problem and that she also sees the need for a fund, but that she cannot yet indicate whether and how much money can be placed in it. I think that is unsatisfactory for a lot of young people who are looking at us now and who think that there is a solution. Perhaps the Minister can help me to get the answer a little more concrete.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u78	That's also in the order of things. I do not want us to create a fund from which such administrative costs are then paid. Then I would like to address the problem at the root and therefore first consult with schools to see how they can do it cheaper and more transparently and make provision for those students who are likely to face financial obstacles. Only where that is not possible, I think you should look at this together, especially because of the balance between schools. Of course, you have to have an indicator and a comparison for that, so that the burden does not end up in one school disproportionately. The bottomline, however, is that students should be able to follow vocational training and not stand in the way of their financial conditions. At the same time, I would like to emphasise that students also have their own responsibility. When you go to chef's school, you buy a knife set that you enjoy for the rest of your life, in general I find quite acceptable. However, it should not be unnecessarily expensive. For those who can demonstrate that they really have a huge problem, for example when it comes to very special, expensive facilities, a solution must be found, but in that order. So I am going to talk to the Leergeld Foundation and the MBO Council about the possibility of such a fund, but I would add that I think it is desirable that the problems should be solved as much as possible at school level and that I should first of all appeal to the schools to do the best I can. I'm gonna do that really actively, even from school to school when I get signals. I'm going to call on schools to do customization and solve these problems within the space that's already there. My next theme is teacher training. We want the best teachers to stand in front of the class. Mr Rog said that our education is as good as the teachers for the classroom. I fully agree with him. So you're gonna need some really good teacher training. The Secretary of State and I are working on this in the framework of the Teacher Agenda 2013-2020, which covers the entire career of teachers. I go in there about teacher training and the Secretary of State takes care of the teachers in po and vo and what can be done even better there. I have made a tour with regard to teacher training in recent times. I have spoken with students, alumni, teachers and internship counselors, but also with the schools where graduates go to work. I've noticed that a lot is happening. I say this to Mr Rog too, because he said that yesterday and I agree with him. Flexibility and tailor-made work are high on the agenda, but there are limits to this, as I say to Mr Duisenberg. Teachership is a profession that requires craftsmanship on the content but also mastery, and teachership at higher education level. That should not be underestimated. During my tour of the courses, I saw that the ways of making the courses and the course of the lecturer more attractive are another theme in which cooperation between training and schools can be improved. More flexible routes around the teacherhood are important. I believe that Mr Duisenberg is being served with this. Much of this will be in the progress report Teachers' Agenda that the Chamber will soon receive from us. Sometime in November we are going to talk about this. Cooperation between teacher training and schools is crucial. That is what is being worked on, for example through exchange. Teachers of teacher training will once again go to an elementary school, a vo-school or a mbo-school to try out how it went. I also mention the training schools. The number of training schools financed goes from 55 to 85. I would like to go even further and see how we can stimulate real education in the school, not just as a training or internship place. I went to work at a school in New York. I found that very interesting. I thought I was going into teacher training, but I ended up in a big group of five and six-year-olds. That turned out to be teacher training, but it was given entirely in the regular school. That's a way that goes far beyond just taking an internship. The whole school's in the school. These are subjects that we also talk about with teacher training, but that does not happen overnight. It is also important to get a picture of what works and what doesn't. With the support of OCW, the University of Groningen conducts a long-term research into the effects of training in the school on the professional skills of start-ups. Such investigations and experiences with different forms of cooperation provide insight into how we can further strengthen cooperation. Teacher training must be responsive. They must therefore also respond to all the new skills and challenges that emerge. They will therefore also have to follow changes in the foundational education system and thus also in the measures resulting from Education2032 for the curriculum of the foundational education, which the State Secretary is working on. The curriculum of teacher training therefore also needs to look at new assignments. Digital skills will receive particular attention, I say in response to Mr Van Meenen. In general, teacher training should be more responsive. I will return to that theme in the progress report. In the progress report we will also discuss the double masters, I say in response to Mr Duisenberg. I, too, have seen that this is a problem. If you want to be a teacher, you already have a master's degree and you have to do another master's degree, while you often need practical elements. We will also discuss the side-inflow, I say in response to Mr Rog. In this context, I would also like to say to Mr Rog that I find the idea of a practical scholarship for teachers, particularly from the MBO, very interesting. It is interesting for teachers of teacher education to just go back to the classroom. For example, it can be very interesting for others to have a practical grant. This can already be done through the teacher's fair and through the training resources of collective agreements, but I find it interesting to highlight this particularly in the case of MBOs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u79	That package looks promising. We can look forward to that with confidence, especially if we can talk about it in full in a month or within a month. In the glowing speech of the Minister, I did miss the dual training. There are training courses which combine practical experience and its theoretical foundation. This is particularly true in the second degree area, but I can imagine that this will be extended to the first degree area, coupled with a master's degree at the university. Would the Minister also take this point into account in her further consideration?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u80	Yeah, I'm telling you. This is in line with the side-influx of teacher training. That's what I'm taking with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u81	The Minister responds positively to my plea for an internship scholarship. As a result, teachers enter the factory and enter the workplace to keep a good bond. But what exactly did the Minister promise? I would like to settle for that and not table a motion if I feel that the Minister wants to make a commitment to that and see how we can better get professional practice into the classroom.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u82	I have said that there are already several possibilities for this through the teachers' fair and the training resources from collective agreements. I'm going to see how in there I can bring this idea to the attention of the MBO schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u83	That's very nice. Thank you. Can the Minister at any time inform the Chamber of whether this is successful or not? I'll leave it to the Minister when she wants to do it, as long as she wants to do it. Well, at least we know something's gonna happen to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u84	I'll admit I do, but I'll leave it open for a while. I do not want to do that with a separate note, but to take it together with other initiatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u85	I thank the Minister for her answers. I stress the importance of the teacher and the fact that we should not underestimate the skill required. We're doing a lot of research. John Hattie's research shows the link between the quality of the teacher and the opportunities later in life. That's crucial. We all agree on that in the Chamber. I read a cup and a piece on NOW.nl. The Minister would not be very open to the discussion that I wanted to start yesterday with Mrs Ypma of the PvdA. Do I understand from the Minister's response, with many good examples, that they are actually open to this discussion? I would like to get a confirmation of that, because I hear her talking about more flexible learning routes. All I can say is that I totally agree with that. I also hear her talking about training in the school. That's totally in line with what I said. I am also very interested in the solution of the Minister for Double Masters and the training she sees following the example of New York. Can the Minister, in the forthcoming debate or in the general discussion on teacher training, address these issues in particular? Can it also take with it the practices from abroad? It is a question of training more from the point of view of practice, which was the crux of my plea, as is the case with many other professional subjects which are also very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u86	I don't know exactly what it says on NU.nl. Let us leave that in the middle. I say to Mr Duisenberg that these points come back in the progress report. Yesterday, this was already reflected in the little debate with Mr Rog, and I would like to add that there are limits to flexibility, because we also want qualified teachers. We want teachers to be registered in a teacher register. We therefore make strict demands on teachers. At the same time, I very much agree that it is desirable that we should have more side-instromers. Not everyone has planned to become a teacher since 17 or 18, but only chooses this wonderful profession when he or she is 30, 40 or 50. For those people, opportunities must also be created. Within the limits of what is further desirable and possible, these themes are reflected in the progress report. We also agree that school education is highly desirable. That is why we are expanding the number of training schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u87	I agree with this. I think we should look at the boundaries and also be open to other practices. Let us do that in November. Let us think of good examples of areas where strict requirements apply, such as professional professions as a lawyer or notary, where you have such a model. Closer in education, of course, we see models such as the bbl in MBO and also vocational training. In addition, a lot of good experiences have been done with First De Klas.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u88	We are going to continue this discussion shortly, when the Chamber has received the progress report and we will have the general consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u89	I was pleased to hear that the Minister wants to make digital skills even more part of teacher training. My first-term question was a little broader, because it also related to the training of computer science teachers, that is what I call it for convenience, so teachers who are competent and competent to teach those skills in education themselves. Is the Minister going to work on this as soon as possible? For we can foresee that we will also need qualified teachers in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u90	Yes, if we find that we do not have qualified teachers for certain subjects, we will have to train them. Of course, it has to be in the right order. In this respect, I am looking at the discussion of the Secretary of State on Education2032. There may also be other forms of subjects, accents, cross-overs or combinations. Teacher training must be properly linked to this. It has to be in that order and not the other way around.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u91	I understand that, but we know the first contours. So let me ask you a different question. Has there already been a connection to that debate so that we do not waste time and can start teacher training as soon as we know the contours well enough? There's no time to waste.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u92	I agree with Mr Van Meenen. We are working on this and we are also informing the Chamber about it in the progress report. I'm getting to the block of "work market." It is very important that the link between education and the labour market is good. If we say that we want to train young people for the jobs of the future, sometimes those jobs do not exist yet, and we cannot even think of their existence yet, we need responsive education, and in general also close cooperation between industry and the MBO in particular. A good example of what is already happening, I see in the Limburg engineering industry, where VDL Nedcar and Stork together with the Mbo-schools Arcus and Leeuwenborgh invented a completely new training formula. Young people are targeted there for a job in production technology. The students attend their training at VDL Nedcar and all theory and practice lessons take place on location. After two years they wave off with a full degree, with which they can work in any production company. There too, there is the question of where education is actually taking place. In higher education, we talk a lot about MOOCs, where education takes place partly in the digital world. In the MBO we see that education sometimes takes place outside the school, in a company or elsewhere. I was at work in Friesland the other day, where I thought it was nice to talk about 'cios': colleagues in training. They were therefore simply trained between the printing presses or in the nursing department, depending on their training. A student obviously has an important responsibility to consciously choose an education and prepare for it, but I fully agree with Mrs Jadnansing, who asked about the final approach. The choice of education is not only at the beginning of the training, but also at the beginning of the training process and internship. Mrs Jadnanancing once again asked for a final approach. We have already taken a number of measures. I have amended the law so that it is now laid down by law that an educational institution must provide sufficient internships, in the law on duty of care. Thus, the final responsibility of the institution is also enshrined in law. At the same time, I realise that it is not settled, because reality is resilient and more is needed. That is why we have worked hard on the internship and learning job offensive, encouraging employers to offer professional practice training through the Grant Scheme, the Regional Investment Fund and Mr Asscher's sectoral plans. So, during the time that things got a little worse, there was a lot of investment in increasing the number of internships. Fortunately, I see with the attracting economy that the internships are improving. In the direction of the MBO institution, therefore, the form of professional practice is also really an important task for the future. It has therefore been included in the quality agreements that have recently entered into force. Finally, the inspection can now monitor whether schools take responsibility for providing traineeships and design them properly. In my opinion, this is a final approach. Above all, I want to ensure that we do this in the best possible way, instead of adopting new measures. To be honest, I wouldn't know what to do. So I am committed to implementing, maintaining and optimizing everything we've been working on lately.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u93	A closing approach, well, I don't know about that. I'm kind of happy about this. Last year we also talked about these internships. Then the Minister literally said: there can be no intention that there is only one final responsible person. Now the message is that the final responsibility of the institutions has long been a fact. I recalled Yahya's documentary yesterday, with his 220 rejections. Yahya's not alone in that. There are a lot of Yahyas who get rejected, go to the school and say, can you help me with an internship? The school then just shrugs its shoulders and says, "Find out for yourself." You can't and you can't. I am not satisfied with this answer. The DAL Act entered into force in 2006. Somehow, almost ten years later, we still have to talk about who is ultimately responsible for these internships. That can't be Jahya.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u94	No, although he has a responsibility in that too, because you can also expect students to look for an internship. Employers also have a responsibility in it. Schools also have a responsibility in it, which is now laid down in the law. So we have the law and the inspection, which can go check. I would also like to mention the quality agreements in which the traineeships have an important place. In addition, I would like to draw attention to measures that we need to take in other areas, such as combating discrimination. Sometimes it is not so much in the internship itself as in the attitude of employers. As we all know, Mr Asscher is very much concerned about this. We are also working together on internships and the apprenticeship offensive, on which the Chamber will soon be able to expect a letter from us. In short, unfortunately, there is no solution to this. If only it were settled with only a provision in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u95	I think that we continue to disagree on this issue and that I should therefore table a motion. I agree in itself with the Minister that young people themselves have a responsibility, but then I refer again to that documentary. 222 times your best effort and 222 times your rejection, you must be very motivated as a youngster. Then it's really sad when we all say "look at it," when the school can just hide behind the fact that he wouldn't be ultimately responsible. The school should simply have the ultimate responsibility in this. Anyway, I don't think the Minister and I can agree on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u96	Perhaps we agree more than Mrs Jadnansing thinks, because I find it as unacceptable as she does. I didn't change the law for nothing. Only, that law doesn't go into retrospect. It has meaning for the future. That law didn't enter into force until recently. The quality agreements will start this year. Where a school is totally out of control, that school should also be addressed. Then the inspection should also look into that. So I really agree with Mrs Jadnansing that it is not acceptable for a student who really does his best and himself to be rejected every time. It is also important to appeal to the apprenticeship companies, for there are examples of certain preferences, which do not give young people the opportunity they deserve. Several Members have asked questions about green education and its funding and positioning, which was also the subject of last year's budget debate. The Secretary of State for EZ and I have had several investigations conducted over the past period, the results of which have been shared with the Chamber. As regards positioning, the ABDTOPConsult report shows that the current model has advantages and disadvantages. In sectors such as care and maritime, OCW has responsibility for the education system, but the sectors themselves are involved in the maritime and VWS care sector in the substantive design. In the case of green education, the responsibility lies with EZ, both financially and in terms of content. The cabinet has no intention of institutional changes. We have found that this would upset a lot, while we are now continuing to invest in cooperation with EZ. However, we have agreed to make a number of regulatory alignments more flexible and to lead OCW in the field of education-wide legislation. On the question of funding, I see the following points. The study by Panteia 1 and 2 showed that green education was financed relatively generously between 2004 and 2015. Green MBO received an average of €1,000 more per pupil than comparable MBO courses. From 2016 onwards, all this has to do with policies at EZ that various members have referred to, and with the abolition of grant schemes they receive on average the same amount of funding per pupil as all other MBO programmes. As Mr Slob pointed out yesterday, from 2016, depending on the comparison system, there is a small advantage for green education or a disadvantage. The Secretary of State for EZ is now working with the green sector to develop a development agenda. It takes into account the specific nature of the tasks set out in the coalition agreement, the subsidies I have just mentioned. I refer to my colleague, the Secretary of State for EZ. All in all, I say to Mr Slob and others who have asked questions about this that I see no reason to adjust the funding of green education in the OCW budget at the moment. It has been adapted and is now broadly modo similar to what other MBO students get. I think it is a good thing that EZ is now working together with the schools to create the best possible green education. I am confident that the actions taken by the EZ Secretary of State will also contribute to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u97	I am not going to have the debate with the Minister on whether or not green education is going to be inadequate in relation to mainstream education. There is a very different experience there, although it is well known that the additional resources that have been given in the past are being lost. But there seems to be a discount out there. I'm gonna give that a rest now. I believe that there are many more, including substantive, reasons and that there are increasingly interdisciplinary relationships between the green part of our economy and other parts, which will at least lead my group to ask the Chamber to merge into the next budget and thus transfer green education to the OCW budget. I don't have a question about this, but I'll share it with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u98	A structural change is not the goal. Only, we note that there have been ping-pongs on the financing of green education for years now. It is true that that is actually the problem of EZ's colleague and not of this minister, so it is a little flawed to talk to this minister about it now. But she also has a broad responsibility for education in the Netherlands. How does it then perceive this situation, that there is a real decline in resources in the years to come, especially for the aoc's but also for the Wageningen University, which is going to suffer from success because it is getting more and more students? How does she see that in the light of the great discount that is now available, while we do want to keep the quality in order? Does this minister have a sense of responsibility or perhaps a sense of responsibility?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u99	Yes, because, of course, I also have responsibility for the whole education system. We have now also agreed with EZ that we should make this more flexible and that we should have responsibility, for example for general legislation, such as the Higher Education Advances Act or electives MBO, which also has effects on green education. That responsibility lies with us. I know this is a complicated discussion. I know that this was discussed last year in the budgets of EZ and OCW and that an amendment was tabled to transfer funds from OCW to EZ for one year. This has been discussed in the General Political Reviews. So we didn't go ice cream in one night either. We've had very thorough research done. We even had follow-up studies on the funding. It shows that for a long time the aocs have been financed relatively generously compared to the rest. I understand that it would be very annoying for them if those resources were to be dropped. Of course, that is very annoying, but at the same time I note that the resources that will be provided from next year will be comparable to what other MBO institutions will receive. So that financial problem is then a fallback from what they had, but I think it is reasonable compared to what other institutions are getting. At Wageningen University a specific problem, namely an appointment made by the department of EZ with Wageningen, is the so-called buffer. If Wageningen University receives more or less than a certain percentage of students, funding will not be adjusted. That really is a responsibility of EZ. I also think it is right that the discussion on this issue should take place during the discussion of the EZ budget, with EZ's colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u100	We'll do the same. My colleague will do the same to that budget. You can say that they have had a lot of extra funding in recent years, but how can organisations like the aocs, which often have higher costs than the average roc, cope with a reduction in the basic cost of 15% if they still want to provide high-quality education? Does the Minister not think that she should perhaps contribute a little bit to solving the problem that now lies with EZ? That is not what I mean in the legislative sense, but in the financial sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u101	We shouldn't compare apples to pears. In the regular MBO not all courses are equally expensive either. Therefore, the aocs are compared with, for example, technical training courses, which also involve relatively high costs. Then again the question is why funds should go to the aocs from OCW, when we do not do so for other training courses. We have increased the resources for technical training a little. These are, as I understand from the studies, similar to those for the aocs. So I really want to look at the facts. We did. That has led to the conclusions that we have shared with the Chamber. I can only conclude from that what I have just given the Chamber. It is indeed quite complex, because it is about price factors and sometimes there are different systems in both departments, but I think it is reasonable. Otherwise, other courses within the mainstream education sector, for example in MBO, would suffer. They'd get less money. We don't want to. We also do not want any further large scale. This can also occasionally entail costs. Those institutions also need their resources very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u102	It's pretty complicated, isn't it? Within the budget of OCW we see that the funding remains reasonably stable for the MBO institutions. For the aocs there is a significant deterioration. Does the Minister recognise that this is actually the basic cost and that it becomes incredibly complicated for training to control it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u103	No. Of course you can. It has historically grown so that own resources have been added to the basic cost. So it's a relative decline for the aocs. It is not entirely right to compare an aoc with a general roc, because there too you have different price factors. Not every education is equally expensive. A technical education is more expensive. I refer specifically to the investigations because I do not want a political discussion here. I think we should look at this from the facts. So I try to look at it from the facts as much as possible. I cannot come to any conclusion other than the conclusion I have just indicated to the Chamber, namely that the funds for the aocs are indeed decreasing compared to what they had and that the aocs have been generously financed in comparison to other training courses. If you look at what you're getting now, it's something more or less than regular training. We have said that it was not worth putting a lot of energy into refining it. In particular, let us ensure that the Secretary of State for EZ can also put its energy into achieving even better quality training and properly integrate into the budget of EZ in the financing of green education.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u104	I can't do much with this, because it puts the problem on the plate of the aocs. I understand that the Minister himself feels no responsibility, but he puts it on the sign of the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs. We in the Chamber will have to do something with this, because we want to solve this problem. These schools have to do with a huge decline in income, which they cannot control. To be honest, I find it difficult to hear from this Minister that she is only aware of this. I'm having trouble with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u105	I'm not just "knowing" about it. We didn't do all these tests for nothing. The aocs are deteriorating, but had a relative head start on other training courses. However, I am responsible for the fact that all these other rock's look at how difficult it sometimes is with technical training.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. They must also remain accessible to large groups of students. I have that responsibility too, and there's a lot going on there too. As a whole, I believe that we have finally found a justifiable balance, including in the financial sense, while maintaining the green column and intensive cooperation in terms of content, encouraged by the department of EZ.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u106	I see Mr Van Meenen at the interrupting microphone. I assume he wants to ask a question and not make an announcement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u107	That's right. The question's coming up now. I believe that this green column is an illusion that we are maintaining. I just said something about it. There is, of course, a growing relationship between green education and all that other education. There's technology, there's administration. In the light of internships, that may also mean more. I know this minister as someone who likes to listen to the field. Now, the aoc field, the green education, says: we would rather go to OCW today than tomorrow. I understand that the Minister has a difficult position in the cabinet, but how does she appreciate that sound?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u108	I'll start with the first question. We have also had research carried out on this subject. It notes that housing at the specific department, such as green education at EZ, has advantages and disadvantages. The advantage is that you can very well shape that green column. I'm correcting myself, because I don't want to mention disadvantages. Other departments can learn from this. The Department of Education can teach that it must also intervene in the content of the training. I have just talked about this in detail in the context of the tour I took through teacher training. That wasn't always obvious. At VWS, for example, the relationship and contribution to care training is large. So it is also possible to shape it in a different way. We can learn from EZ in this respect. In the current situation, it does not make much sense to bring about major institutional changes. A letter from the aocs stating that they would want to move to OCW today is unknown to me. I know that the Secretary of State is really in intensive consultation with the sector. That must be where the primary responsibility lies. There must be an opportunity to find a good solution. I am not going to get in the way of my colleague from EZ.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u109	I don't want to get in the way of anyone either. Perhaps from her distance from the aoc, the Minister does not come to such schools at all, but I do. I think that also applies to a number of other colleagues in the Chamber. Apart from the letter, this is the sound I keep hearing. People would like to be covered by this minister. I understand that the Minister is blushing because it is very honorable, but there really is a very substantive reasoning behind it. Apart from the question of whether it is expected to produce anything financially, there is a substantive reasoning. How does the Minister view this? How does the Minister see this ever-growing relationship with other training courses?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u110	I can see that, too. I see, for example, a very nice cooperation between green education and a number of business sectors. This is often also possible within the current system with a different distribution. I am flattered when people say they want to be among the minister of OCW, but they also sit very well with the secretary of state of EZ. Together, we must continue to promote this type of cooperation and cross-overs in practice and ensure that they are not hampered by institutional differences. I'll take that as a challenge. I come to lifelong learning, about which some questions have been asked. The Court has recently received the progress letter on lifelong learning. It states that we have taken important steps around the pilots flexibilisation and the experiments on demand financing in higher education, strengthening the associate degree and lifelong learning credit. I am working with SZW's colleague on this, also in order to promote a common learning culture. We express the joint responsibility in a joint progress report. I am very glad that, after some initial difficulties, the pilots and the experiments are now really getting off the ground, that many schools have registered and that the industries want to cooperate. I have high expectations of that. I am open to suggestions from the Chamber to strengthen the learning culture. However, the measures proposed by Mr Duisenberg are in the area of my colleague from SZW. I think it would be wise to discuss this with him. I am aware of the debate on training funds rather than sectoral funds, which have been going on for 20 years. I see the importance of this, particularly in the context of changes in the labour market, which means that you need to be trained not only within your sector, but also between sectors. I note that this is a major responsibility of the social partners. I can't go in there. I also note that Mr Van Weyenberg tabled a motion with similar intentions during the budget debate at SZW. I also note that the cabinet is currently engaged in discussions with employers' and employees' organisations to strengthen intersectoral cooperation between R & D funds. This was also agreed in the Technics Pact. The Minister of SZW sent a letter to the Chamber on this subject this summer. However, I am happy to pass on the incentive from the VVD to my colleague, because I see the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u111	That incentive is not enough, Mr Duisenberg?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u112	I am very curious to see how the Minister will look at that suggestion. That last sentence is very important to the VVD, especially as regards the intention and the way in which the Minister conveys that incentive. For lifelong learning and for the employability and skills we need, this is just a very important point. I would therefore ask the Minister to say with great enthusiasm that we are going to take steps in this and that she also feels ownership of this. The Minister mentions many initiatives, but it is too slow. Those 20 years are one thing, but that's illustrative. I mentioned in my contribution a training fund, but also the addition of an in-service training obligation to the job application obligation. I really want to urge the Minister to talk to her colleague from SZW about this with full passion for lifelong learning.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u113	Mr Duisenberg asked how I would look. How does he feel when I say passionate, enthusiastic, and intransigent?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u114	That gesture does not appear in the Acts, Mr Duisenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u115	That's all I can wish for, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u116	Mr van Meenen and Mr Rog asked for the opening of study advance facilities for people aged 30 and over. We've talked about that before. I do not think it is a good idea, also because research shows that this is not at the top of the list of things that people think are important. They consider it much more important to make higher education more flexible. That's right on top of the list. The need for a study advance facility is at the very bottom of the list. That is why we are now starting with this flexibilisation, something that 89% of those interviewed asked for. That is why, as I said, I am so happy with these pilots and flexibilisation experiments. Mr Krol asked what is happening to combat low literacy for the target group 55-plus. The Action Plan Tel along with Language focuses on improving the mastery of basic skills in children and adults. Digital skills are also the focus of attention. In implementation, local liaison is established with, for example, primary care and neighbourhood teams to identify and act on low literacy among older people in a timely manner. New materials can also be developed especially for older people, for example to help them with online banking, online tax returns or online shopping. Digital skills of older people and their practical application therefore also have my attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u117	Even now, of course, there is no time to carry on with this research, but one of the conclusions is that about 2% to 5% of people over 30 would opt for training if there were such a thing as a study advance for that age group. If you translate that into total vocational training, you will amount to a total of 80,000 to 200,000 people. I assume that it is also the Minister's ambition that everyone in the Netherlands should continue to school and that she does not want to limit it to the group that has been interviewed for this research?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u118	I absolutely agree with Mr Van Meenen. However, he received a letter from me three days ago with the progress report on lifelong learning, in which I announce that, fortunately, we will be able to start these pilots and flexibilisation experiments and that many schools will participate actively in them. I note that also when I visit educational institutions and when I talk to employers about this. There's a real interest in that right now. Mr Van Meenen also knows that we have extended lifelong learning credit with a study advance and that we are going much more towards certifications in the MBO. By doing so, we are trying to ensure that vulnerable categories continue to learn at MBO 2 and MBO 3 levels. In that respect, he finds me entirely on his side.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u119	And so is the Minister, because these are all excellent measures. However, it does not leave me with the idea that making a study advance available could override a number of people in this country. For example, we have heard from the top athletes, a group who sometimes throw themselves at their top sport until the 32nd, that they would be thrilled with this facility if they started a study after their top sports career. So my question to the Minister remains as to why we do not choose to do one thing and not leave the other, possibly directed at certain target groups. I would like to call once again on the Minister to dig deeper into the possibilities for this, if necessary for certain target groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u120	I can't do everything at once, and that's why I'm setting priorities. I put it on the basis of a study in which flexibility is at the top of the wish list and the extension of study advances at the bottom. That's why it's not my first priority. I would also add that my resources are not unlimited. This is gonna cost money, and I'm gonna have to get that money off something else. I have come to the conclusion that it is desirable to use the funds now for flexibilisation and pilots. By the way, I agree that top athletes are a special category, and I would point out that employers and others are already supporting these athletes in order to enable them to study after their sports careers. I would also recommend that every top athlete should work on a study as much as possible, especially during the sports career. Mr Rog is very concerned about the consequences of the study advance, I see. In my opinion, the conclusions on these consequences are being drawn a little too quickly, because the ink of the law is hardly dry yet. The law just entered into force two months ago. It seems to me that it is too early to talk about terrible consequences, even though we have not yet received the first entry figures. We are keeping a close eye on the consequences of the study advance; I refer to Mr Slob's motion at the time. I have said before that I think it is possible that there is a small dip. I note that the figures now available are all provisional figures and that they have yet to be delivered to DUO. At the beginning of next year we will have the final figures. Then I would like to start the debate with the Chamber on possible shifts. I would add that the effects will not be visible for a number of years. Many have asked questions about the studies of medical students. I understand these concerns, and I also understand the concerns of students. I would like to add that, in medical studies, most of the training is provided by the government. It is expensive training with a very good labour market perspective and a perspective on a very good salary. I've had extensive research done into the impact of the study advance on multi-annual masters. We have come to the conclusion that it is not desirable, at least not a priority, to meet this group with a supplementary grant. Mr Van Meenen, Mr Grashoff and Mr Van Dijk, who have asked questions on this subject, I would like to say that I will consult my colleague from VWS and the hospitals to see whether an adjustment is possible, for example an internship allowance. However, I would like to make sure that we do something for multiannual masters for one category, while we do not do so for other categories, which have a less generous salary perspective after their studies.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u121	I have another question about the effects of the loan system on precisely these two points. I'm a little surprised at what the Minister says about the influx into HBO. When we got the preliminary influx figures from the universities, the Minister was there as the chickens to say that they were all pretty bad. Especially in HBO, where there are precisely those groups that can elevate themselves, to speak for a moment in social democratic terms, we are now seeing a 6.6% reduction in influx. I think that's a hell of a deal. I wonder whether the Minister will see this urgency and what it will do if these figures prove to be sustainable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u122	Then we'll see what's causing it, how big the problem is and how long it takes. I have already said that it is quite possible that there is a dip. We will then take into account the Slob motion as to whether there is any reason to change the policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u123	Okay, so we're not gonna get anywhere with that. Then let's look at the back, the multi-annual masters. The Minister is right to say that it is not only about medical students, but also about students who may not study after which they earn a lot of money, but who do take a multiannual master's degree. Would the Minister reconsider the possibility of applying a relaxation of the regime for all studies and introducing a grant or grant in the years following that first master's year, which all master's students do?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u124	I think that's a quick conclusion. Once again, I have said that I must look at the data and the results. I do not want to anticipate that, because we must do so carefully. I also said once again, during the debate on the study advance, that I do not want to be blind to possible consequences, but that we should follow this closely and closely.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u125	I hear from the Minister the commitment to talk to the hospitals in consultation with her colleague from VWS. I'm happy about that. In the last sentence there is almost a reversal. Let me be clear that I strongly disagree with Mr Rog that it should be about master students in general; it should be about the specific situation of medical students. Can I interpret the Minister's words in such a way that she agrees with me that this particular situation of medical students with fellowships, a more than full-time working week and the labour productivity that this entails is sufficiently robust to be able to work towards compensation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u126	I agree with you that this particular situation is different from that of students following other multiannual masters. However, I think that the end of your conclusion, which therefore gives rise to compensation, is too definite. I have said that I am willing, together with the hospitals and the colleague of VWS, to see if there is any reason to do anything special for this particular group. In any case, I would like to avoid reopening the debate on the multi-annual masters, which we held extensively last year on the basis of thorough investigations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u127	The important thing here is to be very precise. I very much agree with the Minister. I also understand that she wants to be careful in creating false expectations. But I'm still going to fly him down this road: the fact that medical students in the fellowship phase are to a large extent co-workers in an academic hospital is a reason why it would be logical from the employership to come up with internship fees. Does the Minister agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u128	Until the last part, I agree with you. I would like to make the last part 'that is a reason to consider whether adjustments are desirable and possible'. I say "wishful" because I really want to limit it to this group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u129	If only we had looked at the multiannual masters, I would almost say to Mr Grashoff. We have had so much discussion about it and now we see the consequences, which we saw last year when we had this debate. But that aside. I would like to come back to the pre-financing by the universities. My colleague Mr Slob asked questions about this yesterday. The introduction of the study advance requires pre-financing to improve the quality for the next three years. This amounts to 200 million a year. But it is very unclear whether that money is being invested in quality improvement at all or whether it is being invested in.I mention just a few extra gymnasiums. We have been promised that we will be informed by the end of the year. But then the momentum is over to find something of that here in the Chamber. Is the Minister prepared to send that information to the Chamber at least in due time prior to the notation consultation on higher education? Is it prepared to include participation in this process again? As of 2016, participation has that legal right. But this bunch of students is already entitled to quality impulses.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u130	I agree that participation already has the power to co-operate on the main lines of the budget. So that's next year's budget. That includes the 200 million that HBO and wo invest together. We have also always said that this means that not every institution can do the same. For example, it depends on what the financial situation is and what the growth rates are. So they also provide plans for this per institution, but that adds up to a total of 200 million. I believe that this was also the intention of the Chamber to receive the letter I promised for the debate on the strategic agenda. If it's any different, I'll come back to that in the second term. However, I assume that we can deliver that letter before the debate on the strategic agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u131	That second point is good. With regard to the first point about the involvement of participation in investment, it is true that it only has legal rights from 2016, this year alone there is a number of students who have to deal with the study advance and who are entitled to quality investments. Participation is not yet fully involved, as it has not yet had the legal right to do so for the 2015 budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u132	I believe that the element of participation has already taken place in March or April of this year. Then we immediately exchanged it with the institutions. Then we said to the co-decision councils: you can now get involved in the 2016 budget. It was already being prepared at that time. The academic year begins in September. In that sense, they could of course see if anything could happen for those last four months of 2015. In fact, there are institutions - some of them we have mentioned in the written reply, which are already working on additional investments. They can do that now, because they know that there is a structural contribution through the study advance. Institutions must therefore always be busy. I have examples that show that this will take place in the school year 2015-2016. But again, this is customization from institution to institution. This cannot therefore be asked of every institution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u133	Mrs. Schouten, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u134	I hadn't finished my question, but the Minister was beginning to answer. I am getting signals that not all these institutions deal with participation. That's the problem. Is the Minister prepared to say to the institutions: you need to involve participation in the budget, because it is about quality investment and money that has been taken from students, precisely to invest in quality? They do not have a greater view of this or their participation in it. Is the Minister prepared to make that compelling appeal to institutions?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u135	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u136	I'm gonna do some subtitles on this right now, just before lunch. Something interesting is happening here. Remember last year? That loan system had to be established. That basic grant could go, because those students, well, they can easily repay it. What you are seeing here is that the proponents, namely GroenLinks, D66 and the Minister, are now coming back with a bit of hanging legs and that it is said: it is not quite good for medicine, but it is not really good for other studies, beta studies, very heavy studies, multi-annual masters, so we need to see if we can fix it. But, Minister, we knew that a long time ago, didn't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u137	I have found nowhere that there are problems that are now calling for a solution. I still believe that this is an extremely good decision, perhaps one of the best in the last 30 years of study funding. Finally, finally, we can now make that investment in improving the quality that everyone has been waiting for for for so long. However, we will always follow the consequences, precisely in the context of discussions on the functioning of the system. So I'm not deaf and blind to anything, but I like to be quoted well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u138	We see the structure slowly falling apart. It's rattling, it's cracking and it's squeaking. The Minister makes a fine attempt to defend it, but in the meantime we had medical students here on Tuesday who said that this is unbearable, that this is really too expensive and that they, among other things by D66, are saddled with huge debts of up to €36 000. And what does the Minister just say? With VWS she is going to examine whether a grant, an internship fee, can be made. Minister, just admit that you made a mistake on this point and tell me when you will come up with that solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u139	The theme of the studies is not only about the study advance, but also about internships and the relationship with the employer. I haven't been there, but I've heard that the students who were there weren't against the college advance. However, they asked for attention to be paid to the specific problem of the societies. So that's what I'm gonna look at.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u140	That is extremely sensible of the Minister. I was there, and those students did say that they are not against the loan system at all, but that they do want recognition for having to work 50 to 60 hours a week. So that's very good. I have another question. Mr Van Dijk has just suggested that the structure is slowly collapsing, as he always predicted. If there is a decline in HBO, does the Minister exclude that it is the result of what I call the Rog/Van Dijk effect? I mean that in all sorts of rooms in this country the biggest doom scenarios have been poured out about prospective students: if they were going to study, they would be in everlasting debt, which they would never be able to pay off. Does the Minister rule that out or, more importantly, is she prepared to consider in the monitoring whether there has been a deterrent effect from the debate we have had here?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u141	Yeah, I'd be happy to. I have already said once again that there may be several causes. The cause may be the fact that a doom scenario has been foreseen. The cause may also be the fact that the provision of information, with everything we have done about it, can still be optimised. The cause may also have to do with economic situations that make those with MBO training more interested in their job opportunities than in further training in HBO. And the cause may also have to do with the discussion and the announcement of the study advance, which some students, who would otherwise have taken a gap year, have not taken. So there are all kinds of causes. I am not immediately awake from a slight drop and I want to do the discussion well and at a good time. Finally, I will deal with the question of funding. That is not the least important issue. Mr Duisenberg has asked questions about this in the broader perspective of the method of financing. Let me say again that I really appreciate the way in which Mr Duisenberg, as well as the other Members of Parliament, are keeping us sharp in dealing with the OCW budget and trying to discuss what all these investments are and what we get back, especially students and students. This concerns the method of management, funding and accountability and the way in which we implement it. We don't do that for every sector in the same way. We generally look at a combination of autonomy via the lumpsum, transparency about performance and targeted control. This combination strikes a good balance between freedom to adopt a locally appropriate approach and clear priorities on the agenda. I note for a moment that this autonomy is very clearly appreciated by the OECD, because education professionals in that model are given a lot of space to do what they are good at, namely teaching. The OECD is clear on this. The combination of decentralisation and much autonomy at school level, with central guarantees, such as our inspection, is the strength of the Dutch education system. This autonomy also translates into the financing of the institutions through a lump sum rather than through detailed regulation aimed at results established from above. The results do not lie: this system leads to an order that belongs to the best in the world. I'm just going to say that, bearing in mind the beginning of my input. But we shouldn't stop there either. We must always be willing to think further. We do this in different ways. We are also doing this in a sector-specific way. We do not do this in the same way everywhere, but within the same frameworks. It is about monitoring standards, independent monitoring of the quality of education and the legitimate use of taxpayers' money, and all this with a guarantee of accessible education. I'm just gonna say it again. We see different priorities and bottlenecks. A targeted approach is applied. In higher education, we have broad agreements and performance agreements. At the MBO we have quality agreements, for example focused on talent development and attention to professionalisation. That's what we want to learn from. What we learn from the quality agreements in the MBO we may be able to use in higher education or elsewhere. In primary and secondary education we have a different approach, namely with sectoral agreements. The Secretary of State will deal with that in due course. For lump sum funding, transparency and accountability are always important. For example, educational institutions have to account for investment in real estate. This is particularly important in MBO and higher education. The Education Inspectorate and the Court of Auditors are investigating investment in real estate. I agreed with the higher education institutions that they would reduce their indirect costs and include a continuity paragraph in their annual report, which would allow them to look further ahead. In the MBO, transparency is shaped by good objective information to prospective students, good information about the functioning of educational institutions and accountability by the sector itself in the form of MBO Transparent. I hope that we can continue to work together with the Chamber on funding and on everything we can learn from it. I hope we can learn from the way schools and boards do it. It is also very important that participation is involved and has an important role to play in this. I hope that we will continue the debate on outcome, in the various sectors, but also on education. I think it is a good development that we are doing this together with the Chamber. I am also pleased that we can take steps with the Court of Auditors to increase transparency and understanding of quality development. I actually regard this as a joint learning process between the Chamber and the Cabinet on a subject on which we are still far from being learned.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u142	Yesterday we debated a lot about the lumpsum. Will the Secretary of State come back to that later?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u143	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u144	Fine. Then there's no need for this interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u145	This brings us to the end of the Minister's reply. I suggest we suspend for lunch and then listen to the Secretary of State's response.
