ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u1	The Foreign Trade Minister is not here because she is currently talking to the European Council on this issue in Brussels.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. Today's front page of the Volkskrant says that the government is allocating EUR 50 million to Africa to stop migration. That sounds decisive and the picture of Minister Ploumen with the arms over each other also exudes that. But although the thought is not unsympathetic, it is questionable whether this proposal is more than just an empty shell. I could say that the Minister's 50 million is nothing more than a drop in the ocean, but that would be faint, because the Minister knows that too. I could ask if this is EUR 50 million extra, on top of the budget, but that is against my better judgment, because the money comes from the Dutch Good Growth Fund, from an existing pot. So it's not new money. I could point out that the Minister wants to combat migration, but then invests in Ghana, Senegal and Tunisia, countries where the perspective for the local population is very good. Let me ask if I can sum up correctly when I say that Minister Ploumen is actually going to spend EUR 50 million, which was earmarked in her budget for Dutch entrepreneurs in developing countries, on Dutch entrepreneurs in developing countries and hopes that this will then contribute against migration. In other words, can the Minister explain what is new to this proposal and how it will actually contribute to "more perspective in Africa"? Finally, may I ask why Minister Ploumen is now in Brussels announcing this 50 million grand, when she did not say a word about this last Thursday when the Chamber debated it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u3	I give the floor to the Minister for Economic Affairs to answer these questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u4	Mr. Chairman. Mr Sjoerdsma is selective in his questions, as he makes clear to us. That is also because, of course, he realizes that we are dealing with a very persistent problem, which cannot be solved without reason. The problem is that people from Africa come to Europe with wrecked boats and lose their lives at sea in large numbers. But what lies behind that is, of course, the lack of perspective in a large part of Africa and the lack of a decent living environment for the people living there. The great difference between Africa and Europe is the driving force behind the ongoing process. Of course, you can then try to make a contribution to solving that problem through careful individual asylum procedures. Of course, you can see what you can do there with arms to make sure that the most serious abuses are corrected and, where possible under a Security Council resolution, you can try to take preventive action. Of course, you can work on emergency aid, but you also have to work on the underlying problem. That's, as I just put it, the difference in perspective, the difference in climate of life. That is why we have the budget for development cooperation, which has been allocated in a variety of ways. But if something like this happens, you give it an extra accent, as the Minister has done now. You look within your budget at how you can make resources available to do something extra for this purpose. Not only can we do this as the Netherlands, there are 27 other countries in the European Union and many other countries in the world that can contribute to this. All of you will have to gradually take care that the underlying problem is removed. That is what the colleague wanted to do. What's new about it? It is not, as Mr Sjoerdsma says, that all this money comes from the Dutch Good Growth Fund. Half of it comes from this fund and half from the budget article for the development of the private sector, both from 25 million. So what we are trying to do is to give Dutch entrepreneurs and local entrepreneurs, who can do good things there, but also civil society organisations and social entrepreneurs in the area the opportunity to come up with plans and proposals that we can honour, in order to contribute to a structural solution to the problem facing the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u5	Where Minister Ploumen announced this morning on the front page of the Volkskrant that it would offer 50 million perspectives to North Africa, Minister Kamp now says: it is an extra accent. That already puts it in a more relativistic perspective. Minister Kamp also says: we must tackle this problem at the root of the problem. I agree with him wholeheartedly. It will not be enough just to fight against symptoms, just to shoot up boats in the Mediterranean or to bomb smuggling routes. We will also have to look at the root cause, and I am glad that Minister Kamp here speaks warmly about the usefulness of development cooperation. That's for a VVD minister to praise. However, this is symbolic policy, because Minister Kamp confirms that the money comes from existing jars. The money is spent on what it was meant for. So there is no new proposal and there is no new plan, unless the Minister says "it is and it looks like it." I'm afraid I can't hear him say that. I'd like to hear him say it. My group has made serious proposals, for example, to fight for sustainable reception in the region, a proposal to help Jordan and Lebanon, for example, in the structural reception of millions of refugees. When I made that proposal, cabinet and coalition said no. A large part of the Chamber said yes. I'd like to ask Minister Kamp to reconsider that plan. Spend the 50 million that the cabinet is now pulling out on that! Spend it on the governments that really need it! Finally. The Minister did not comment on the fact that Minister Ploumen discussed this with us last week, but did not mention it. Perhaps he can do that, because it is not the first time that Minister Ploumen announced something after the debate. I refer, for example, to the Charles Doorman after the Ebola debate. Why wasn't the Chamber informed about this last Thursday? Can the Minister guarantee that it won't happen again?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u6	Symbols aren't wrong. If you have 4 billion a year available for development cooperation, you're really doing something in the world. I wish all the countries in the world did it that way. The fact that within that budget you are dependent on the developments that are taking place in the world and that you are trying to respond adequately and to set an example with it seems to me to be very sensible. It's not just about making an amount available. It is true that three objectives need to be achieved. The first is that we give Dutch entrepreneurs with interest in the countries where the problem is, the opportunity to do good things there. Secondly, we help young entrepreneurs in the area to finance, but also to prepare business plans, logistics and to find a market. The third thing we want to do with it is to give people with realistic ideas, civil society organisations and social entrepreneurs the opportunity to realise their initiatives. In particular, it looks at initiatives for groups of people living in unsafe areas and for ethnically vulnerable groups. That's the plan behind it. It seems to me very good that you, as a responsible govern ment, respond adequately to what is happening in the current situation. When exactly you can communicate that, it depends on when you're done with it. Of course there are parliamentary debates every week. Oh, thank God. Of course, there is talk every week of a subject such as this in the Council of Ministers, but that does not mean that the Minister himself, within his own budget, can take decisions within the margins she has received from the Chamber and discuss them with the Chamber. The Minister will allow the Chamber to do so. A letter on this subject will be sent to the Chamber this week. If the Chamber wishes to exchange views on this matter, we are, of course, prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u7	Thank you for the promise of that letter. However, I have to say that the Minister does not go any further than raising the policy frameworks of the Dutch Good Growth Fund. That already existed. I would like to challenge the cabinet, also in view of Thursday's debate, to come up with a much more comprehensive answer to the challenge we face at our southern border. How are we going to adapt our foreign policy, our development policy and perhaps also our economic policy abroad to that changing reality? I hope that there will be an adequate response to that at least on Thursday.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u8	I am not going to go into any further details on the comment on the skirmish. I think we agree on a broader, more comprehensive approach. More needs to be done in that area. With everything you do to try to solve the problems in the short term, you should also look at the underlying problem. So does the Minister. In this way, it has rightly highlighted this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u9	Will this aid ultimately also be linked to the withdrawal of aziel seekers and reception in the region? In other words, is this a comprehensive package of measures? Is that what these conditions are for? Or does the Minister say that we are doing something separate from that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u10	There have been agreements on projects and additional investments in countries that can motivate countries to do something extra to take back rejected asylum seekers and illegal residents. A good example of this is what we are doing in Somalia at the moment. An additional border surveillance project will be financed there. Somalia is in favour of this. This applies widely to all countries concerned. This is a policy that will be applied every time it is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u11	I thank the Minister for explaining that the amount of 50 million in the Volkskrant that we woke up with this morning, but 50%, that is to say 25 million, comes from the fund. Last year, 18 million were stuck in that fund. That was left on the shelf because the minister didn't spend it. Do I understand correctly that the 25 million from the fund is available to Dutch entrepreneurs operating in Africa? Or is that amount available to African entrepreneurs or for a combination of both? How am I supposed to see that? The message in the Volkskrant gave me the idea that the 50 million was entirely for African entrepreneurs, but that does not seem to me to be entirely the intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u12	It would be very nice if there were so many opportunities in Africa for entrepreneurs with realistic plans that we could spend amounts in this order of magnitude to support them. I'll give you the figures we're talking about. In 2015, we have an amount of 150 million available for the Dutch Good Growth Fund. That can be spent in a year. Last year there was 100 million available for a destination in six months. That worked out for 82 million. This means that a very good start has been made with this fund. For the 25 million we get from the fund for this purpose, we follow the line of the fund's original design. Part of this amount is used for Dutch entrepreneurs who engage in activities there. Part of the money is earmarked for African entrepreneurs who engage in activities there. The extent to which Dutch entrepreneurs can make use of this money depends mainly on the initiatives they come up with. We are open to any good initiative, any good proposal from the Dutch entrepreneurs aimed at the African countries we are talking about here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u13	I want more clarity about spending. As Mr Sjoerdsma says, it is rather disappointing that, after three hours of sitting together, we should finally read the plans in the Volkskrant. So we wouldn't have had to sit together for three hours. I support the call for these proposals to be shared with the Chamber in particular before they go to the media. I have a specific question. If the Minister can't answer it now, I hope this can be in the letter. What is the new thing about this proposal? We have the Dutch Good Growth Fund that still has 750 million in it. Is this amount being taken out of this fund? Is this specifically earmarked for North African countries that are now dealing with migration? Is it still part of this fund? What happens to the 25 million from the private sector? Is this going to be a separate fund and is this money also earmarked? Or are these the regular channels that companies from the Netherlands and Africa can use?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u14	25 million comes from the budget article aimed at developing the private sector. There is no fund in between because that is a budget article that is being used for the purpose for which it was created. The Dutch Good Growth Fund reserves 25 million for this purpose. That's a fund from which you can spend 125 million a year. Of this 125 million, 25 million is used for this purpose. It is a use of the available amount from this fund. Then exchange information with the Chamber. I think a minister should always be able to take his own policy decisions within the margins that apply to him or her. Then it's communicated. The Chamber will then have the opportunity to exchange views with the govern ment, in this case on the basis of a letter sent this week. If sufficient support has been found, the Minister may also implement his or her intentions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u15	The PvdA welcomes this proposal. Just six months ago, we asked for a motion to create opportunities for young people in developing countries who want to undertake but really run into thresholds. This is what we need to do. Can I ask the Minister whether this money is being spent correctly in the countries from which most migrant young people come? In this way, the link between migration and development becomes clearly visible. Can he confirm that it is not only spent in the countries mentioned so far, Tunisia, Ghana and yet another country, but that there are many more countries eligible for these funds?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u16	It is always a question of using the money in the countries where it is most needed. However, these must also be countries where a responsible destination can be given. That combination of the most necessary and able to give it a responsible destination must be considered. It is up to my colleague Ploumen to make the right decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u17	Thank you for your reply and thank you for coming to the Chamber. We look forward to the letter you promised.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u18	Mr. Chairman. I have a point of order. Thursday evening is the debate, also on this. Maybe the letter can be sent to the Chamber by Thursday.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u19	I will pass on the stenogram of this part of the meeting to the cabinet.
