ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-4.u1	Mr. Chairman. The degree of intolerance is beginning to take worrying forms in our country. In this Chamber we regularly talk about increasing anti-Semitism. It is a good thing that measures are being taken to combat this. However, we believe that there is not enough attention to increasing Muslim hatred and Islamophobia. The incident list of the Meldpunt Islamophobia & Discrimination shows that Muslim hatred in the Netherlands is unfortunately growing. The number of attacks on mosques doubled in 2014 compared to a year earlier. The number of incidents of violence against Muslims has more than tripled. Then what are we talking about? For example, we are talking about a volunteer of a mosque in Eindhoven who, while carrying her baby, is attacked by two men. The men took away her headscarf, made her for everything, gave her blows, and tore her away in a red Nissan Almera. Does the Minister share our concerns about the rise in Islamophobia? What is the state of play with regard to the registration of Islamophobia crimes? We have received a list from the Islamophobia & Discrimination Contact Point, but it should still be a government task to have the registration in order. I thought we agreed with the Minister that these crimes would be recorded separately. Or should we still do it with lists of beautiful, beautiful private initiatives? We suspect this is just the tip of the iceberg. In what way does the Minister intend to increase the awareness of Islamophobia incidents? Is the approach to Islamophobia at present to the Minister's understanding sufficiently effective and efficient?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. Mr Kuzu called for attention to be paid to the increase in the number of discrimination incidents against Muslims. I very much agree with him that discrimination in any form or on any basis whatsoever cannot be tolerated. In addition to the disturbing noises we heard yesterday in connection with an investigation into anti-Semitism, there are indeed disturbing noises about discrimination against Muslims. Mr Kuzu said that this discrimination might not receive sufficient attention from the cabinet. That is why it is good that I now indicate what steps have been taken and are still being taken. Earlier this year, an investigation was sent to the Chamber about discrimination against Muslims. Follow-up studies will be carried out on this issue this autumn. There is now registration of discrimination against Muslims. This was first recorded for the year 2013. Then 150 incidents were recorded, of which 27 were unfortunately also with threats or abuse. The figures for 2014 are coming this summer. Mr Kuzu is right that there may also be an under-registration because of reluctance to report incidents. Colleagues from Security and Justice and Social Affairs and Employment held consultations with Muslim organisations earlier this year on the increasing incidence of discrimination. It has been agreed that they will work with these organisations to see how this registration can be further improved. After the summer there will be a review, a tightening up of the action plan against discrimination. In it, colleagues will indicate how registration can be improved if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-4.u3	We agree with the Minister that all forms of discrimination must be strongly combated, whether they relate to origin, religion, race or whatever. As far as we are concerned, we must tackle and fight anti-Semitism and Islamophobia hand in hand. It is a good thing that the cabinet is working to better manage the registration of Islamophobia incidents. Recently, in the light of the increased anti-Semitism, the cabinet has focused on the security of synagogues. We think that is a good thing. Doesn't the Minister see any reason to put extra emphasis on the security of mosques? Does the Minister see any reason to do so? The Court has just received a letter plus a report on the causes of anti-Semitism. Is the Minister prepared to devote part of the research that has already been carried out to the increase in Islamophobia crimes and their causes? Is he willing to investigate that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-4.u4	First of all, Mr Kuzu asks whether it has the attention of the government when there is a threat to mosques. The National Coordinator on Counterterrorism and Security also keeps a close eye on possible attacks and threats to mosques. Additional action will be taken where necessary. The aim of the investigations into the increase in discrimination and possible incidents towards the Muslim community is precisely to identify the developments and the causes that may lie behind them. If the follow-up studies are available this autumn, I think it is right that the debate on these causes and the possible measures that is essential should continue at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-4.u5	As far as I am concerned, there can be more butter for the fish, because since 2006 several private initiatives have been in the process of registering this type of incident. We have recently received a report on the root causes of increasing anti-Semitism in the Netherlands. My question is very simple: is it not possible to devote a piece of the research that will be presented in the autumn to the causes of increasing Islamophobia? We take numerous measures in the Netherlands to ward off hate preachers from our society. We think that is a good thing. At the same time, we see the tendency for the greatest preacher of hatred among us to confront groups of people. Why are we trying to ward off foreign hate preachers from the Netherlands and let us just go with the greatest hate preacher, with the soldiers sitting there on the right side of the Chamber? Why is the Minister not prepared to investigate the foundations...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-4.u6	Mr Kuzu, this is not a debate with the Chamber. I'll have to point that out to you. This is a debate with the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-4.u7	You have to take it back!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-4.u8	I'm not taking anything back. Why can't we investigate the root causes of Islamophobia?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-4.u9	Mr Kuzu asked for additional research into the causes of discrimination and possible violence against Muslims. I have indicated that the cabinet takes this problem seriously as well as any form of hatred and discrimination, whether it is on the basis of faith or for any other reason. When it comes to the Muslim community specifically, the cabinet has already commissioned an investigation. It will come with additional research this autumn. If the cabinet hadn't taken it seriously, that investigation wouldn't have taken place. So I do not share that with Mr Kuzu. Of course, the purpose of this research is to identify these causes. Mr Kuzu is already taking an advance on this, but you do not allow an investigation to draw any conclusions in advance. I would like to see that investigation first and then discuss with the Chamber what measures should be taken on that basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-4.u10	Before I give the floor to Mrs Karabulut, I would like to point out for the Acts that Question Time is intended to ask questions to the Minister and not to take the measure of Members of Parliament. We must discuss this with each other in other debates. Mrs Agema, on behalf of the PVV Group, would like to make a comment on the Acts. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-4.u11	If you don't, Mr. President, I'll make this a personal fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-4.u12	That can only be done by the group that has been addressed. That is now recorded in the Acts. I give the floor to Mrs Karabulut for a question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-4.u13	A third of the mosques say they have to do with aggression, sometimes with threats, with intimidation, discrimination and racism. That is, of course, unacceptable. Of course, the cabinet must take that seriously. Muslim hatred, hatred of the Jews, hatred of the homosexuals, hatred and hatred are spread. The best remedy against this is that we make a fist together for living together, but more is needed. That's what my question is about. People must have the feeling that the cabinet and the authorities are acting as well. There were over 3,600 reports of racism and discrimination in 2013 but only 83 cases at the State's Attorney's Office. How is this possible? Does the Minister share my view that this is not very trusting?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-4.u14	In fact, Mrs Karabulut asks whether the cabinet takes this problem seriously. The answer to that is "yes." The Social Affairs and Security and Justice colleagues consulted representatives of the Muslim community this spring for a reason. The investigations to which I referred are being carried out. It has the full attention of the National Coordinator on Counter-Terrorism and Security from the security point of view. In reply to Mr Kuzu's question, I mentioned the number of incidents reported to the police. I have indicated that there may be underreporting. There is an immediate relationship with the number of cases that go to the Public Prosecutor's Office, because if not everyone who is faced with discrimination, especially if there is a threat of violence or even violence, then the perpetrators cannot be prosecuted. That's why we're looking for a way to register much more. The aim of this is also to make the prosecution much better.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-4.u15	I would like to thank the Minister for his commitment to inciting hatred and violence and to expressing it. Whether it be atheists, Christians, Jews or Muslims, everyone, without distinction, must know their safety in this country. I thank the Minister for that. In my colleague's question, you will immediately notice that there is a discussion about what, for example, is "islamophobia." Does the Minister agree with me that there is a difference between criticizing people for something they are and what they cannot change, namely their ethnicity as is the case with anti-Semitism, or criticizing people for a belief, for example Christian faith or an Islamic belief? Does the Minister agree with me that a free exchange of views is crucial and that there should always be room for open debates on views and beliefs?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-4.u16	I immediately agree that there is a difference between the two, but neither should ever constitute a basis for discrimination. That is, of course, regardless of religion or religion. In a free open society, people can be expected to participate freely in the debate and not to be afraid to express themselves. However, they must not be afraid to express their religion. So the commitment is really to act hard when discrimination occurs, regardless of the type of discrimination involved, so that people in the Netherlands can really feel free and safe.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-4.u17	I thank the Minister for his answers. The following question is also asked to him.
