ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-11.u1	I see we have quite a full public gallery. I would like to welcome everyone. There are clear agreements in this type of debate; speaking time is three minutes per group. I will allow three interruptions per speaker, as we have just discussed. I would again like to welcome the Secretary of State of VWS.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-11.u2	Mr. Chairman. The fact that there are so many people in the public gallery indicates that a debate that was requested in March last year can still be topical. The closing of the nursing homes is about more than breaking down some stones and buildings. These are people, high-age, vulnerable people who now live in the nursing home and are afraid they will have to move. These are people who want to live in a nursing home, who may already be on a waiting list and are afraid that they will no longer receive care in their old age. The Secretary of State not only takes care of the elderly, but also their trusted and safe living environment. Mrs Westveer-van Poelje's desperate act shows all the more how far-reaching such a forced move is at an old age. Not only the PVV, but also ActiZ believes that the reform is going far too fast. Needless to say, many institutions are closed, partly because of the care offices, which are under-contracting both in- and outpatient care packages 1 to 3. I ask the Secretary of State: how can existing rights be retained? There are even longer waiting lists, while in the nursing home the rooms are just empty. How will the waiting elderly end up? Will they go astray in the streets, will they die in a fire in their homes, or will they give up altogether, while in the nursing home the rooms are simply empty? Already, an agent loses 13% of his working time to confused persons, while in the nursing home the rooms are just empty. And what does the Secretary of State do? He's standing there looking at it. And all that for a profit of a tiny 65 million euros for this year. With the disappearance of nursing homes, the social neighbourhood function disappears. Away is the daily consumption, away is the restaurant with the meal provision for the elderly in the district. And what are the reclining houses still leaning against? It's gone. Once you're old and live in the house you've always lived in, you don't want to go to another safe place, even with a low care indication. What affordable alternatives are there? Are these alternatives really affordable for all elderly people, including those with only an AOW? Renting rooms to older people is not a one-two-three arrangement, but it seems that there are no such problems when renting out rooms to students or receiving asylum seekers. What's the cause of that? The Secretary of State wants older people to live on their own for longer. Then why didn't he take care of that first? Why doesn't he first provide suitable homes and enough affordable alternatives to live with care in the neighborhood and why doesn't he keep the nursing homes open? No, he's gonna scrap housekeeping, counseling and day care and close the nursing homes. The Secretary of State is throwing away his old shoes before he gets new ones. I'm warning him he'll be walking barefoot.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-11.u3	Mr. Chairman. Last year in March, care institutions were the alarm clock about the premature closure of care homes. The problem was that funding fell, not only for new residents, but also for existing residents. The Secretary of State didn't do anything. The demolition of care for the elderly was approved. Older people must stay home longer: not to an institution, but at home. And that's what every older person wants. So why is the Secretary of State tearing down home care? If you remove 40% of home care, it is not surprising that home care organisations go bankrupt, and if you spend 15% short on community care, it is not surprising that many elderly people and people with disabilities lose their care. It's a poisonous cocktail. A quarter of the municipalities cancel home care. That may be very cheap in the short term, but in the long term it is simply expensive. Older people who do not receive sufficient domestic care may, in principle, be able to survive, but in the longer term, we will encounter older people who are isolated, who are malnourished or who have accidents at home. Cheap seems to be mostly expensive. Older people come into the picture with a heavier and much more expensive care question. Does this Secretary of State of the Labour Party consider that appropriate? And then there is the indecent attitude towards the workers. They're here tonight in the public gallery. They're fighting for good labour rights. It's a shame the Secretary of State hasn't been able to talk to you tonight. However, I have just heard him say that he would like to visit you again and that he still wants to enter into the conversation with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-11.u4	Mrs Siderius, you are speaking to the Chamber and not to the public gallery, no matter how much we welcome those people here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-11.u5	I'd like to put a question to the Secretary of State. Does he think it is normal that Vérian employees in Gelderland should be pressured to hand in 20% to 30% of their salary, with a blackmail tool that would otherwise apply for collective dismissal, while there has been no tender? Is this meant by "quality and continuity of care"? Take Pantein and Thebe. The Secretary of State has managed to get two home care organisations bankrupt within a month. At Thebe there are 2,000 employees on the street. They are allowed to work for a bummer at Tzorg or TSN. At Pantein, in the back rooms, Zuidzorg was allowed to take over these women at a reduced rate. Fortunately, there was a stop to this by the municipality, but there is still great unrest and great uncertainty, because do these women, and men, by the way, still have their jobs in the future? I'd like to hear that from the Secretary of State tonight. The question is of course: does the Secretary of State think that home care worker is a profession for which you need to be trained and for which decent pay should be paid? Does he think that home care workers should also indicate things, that they should, for example, check whether the mail has been opened and whether there is mold in the refrigerator or not? If the answer is "yes," why does this Secretary of State approve of the fact that home care workers are being squeezed further and have to live on a low salary? Everyone wants to grow old, but no one wants to be old these days.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-11.u6	Mr. Chairman. The CDA Group likes to talk about inpatient care for the elderly, because it wants it to fit whatever people want. In November 2013, we asked for and received a ruling from the Chamber on this matter. We have jointly asked the government, with the exception of the VVD Group, to make clear what needs to be done to get our care homes up and running. We mentioned in particular the ActiZ transition agenda. On 6 November we finally had a discussion on this with the Minister for Housing and the Secretary of State of VWS. It didn't come out that much back then. That is also evident from the minutes of that consultation. So now is a good time to ask what's going on. What has the Secretary of State done to address frustrating laws and regulations and to promote investment in healthcare and real estate? What has the chasing team done to convert nursing homes to nursing homes or to senior apartments? For that last team I have a very nice case, and this time a little closer to my house. In Edam is De Meermin. The care facility wants to keep this care center. But unfortunately, the building belongs to Vestia, and he wants the prize. We all know how that happened. The Care Circle wants development as a tenant and the mediation has unfortunately been hanging for three quarters of a year. There is no doubt that older people's homes will be needed in this municipality and in the region in the coming years. Until the 1950s, the families were numerous. Now there are 1,900 75-plussers and in 15 years, by 2030, there will be 4,000. I therefore have the following question to the Secretary of State. How is the hunting team, what are the successes so far and is this not a nice case to mean something to the elderly in the region? Meanwhile, the policy to convert nursing homes into senior apartments or nursing homes is actually a year old. That's why I have the following questions. How many nursing homes did we have until 1 January 2014? How many have already been converted to nursing homes and how many have been converted to senior apartments? How many zzp 4, nursing home places, have they been bought in for 2015? I ask this because I hear from my contact point the Mona and also from GPs how some elderly people are in the home situation. I can only conclude that there is azzp 4 or higher. But apparently there's no place. That can't be true! Does the Secretary of State wish to clarify whether there should always be initial dementia with diagnosis, for example, before a vulnerable elderly person with azzp 4 can go to a nursing home? In other words, what should be the matter with an older person who is vulnerable and with whom things are not going well? That's what the family sees, that everyone sees.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-11.u7	Why hasn't the CDA thought about this in advance? The CDA is partly responsible for removing the funding of the first threezzp's, without considering what should happen. Every time the debate is held, people complain and grumbling again. Why did the CDA agree to a measure the CDA did not assess the effects of?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-11.u8	This is a question that has been asked to me several times. I always answer the following question. In our society, there is a development in which people are waiting as long as possible to be admitted intra-murally. My grandmother was 70 and went to the then retirement home cheering. My mom's 70 and shouldn't think about it. Nursing homes have often been built far before the 1980s. Something must be done. The CDA has agreed to change older people's policies, but has already asked for a transition agenda. I think we are talking about spring 2012. At the end of 2013 we submitted the motion Knops/Keijzer. During the consultation on 6 November last year, we again asked the Minister of Housing and the Secretary of State of VWS what they were going to do with it. I would like to hear today from this Secretary of State what has happened to actually adapt that outdated housing stock to modern times.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-11.u9	So the CDA has been asking for solutions for two years, because it hasn't thought about it and in the meantime there are many people on a waiting list. They're sitting in an apartment where they can't get out, because there's no place to live. The CDA's been asking questions for two years. The CDA should have thought in advance of what the consequences would be of supporting this measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-11.u10	I think Mrs Gerbrands is confusing two things now. There are people with a lower need for care. I mentioned my grandmother and my mother, but there are a lot of people who would prefer to postpone moving to an inpatient living environment, a nursing home, for as long as possible. Here's the question of how to get to those nursing homes. I have asked a number of factual questions about this. I am curious to hear the answers of the Secretary of State and then, hopefully here with each other, to determine what needs to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-11.u11	Very briefly, Mrs. Gerbrands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-11.u12	It may well be that Mrs Keijzer's mother shouldn't think about it, but there are people who have no network and who have something wrong. They are not eligible for an zzp 4 and it is no longer possible at home. Those people are the victims of this. It's that category that falls between shore and ship, not Mrs Keijzer's mother or my mother's.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-11.u13	That's right. Hence my last question: what should be going on now before someone gets a place in a nursing home, thezzp 4? In my opinion, then, you are engaged constructively in politics, namely by clarifying what is between the ears of this Secretary of State before you can do anything for those people. That's what I like to do as a CDA guy: get clear what's going on, and then help people get that place.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-11.u14	Mr. Chairman. Not for the first time, and quite rightly so, we are discussing the closure of nursing homes today. A painful issue in this context was the report that thousands of people are on the waiting list for a place in a nursing home, while apartments are empty. This is an absurd situation, which we think is impossible to sell as 50PLUS. The method of recording also proved not to be always correct. Just before Christmas we received the report on the actualization of the waiter. It has been agreed that we will discuss this in an unplanned general discussion. I'm sure there's a point I'd like to raise. The Secretary of State indicated in his letter of 22 December that measures had been taken to improve registration. That's good. Otherwise, we'll have the same problem in no time. It is argued, inter alia, that ActiZ will emphasise the importance of discussing this issue with healthcare providers. However, 50PLUS is looking for a way to make this clearer. Does the Secretary of State agree with us that the customer's desired waiting list status should be made mandatory and registered by default? If so, what possibilities does he see to achieve this? I'd like a response. 50PLUS continues to worry. Close care homes, caused by people living longer at home and even more by government policies. Because people's care demands do not disappear in magic, it is important to ensure good care at home. But there is also a cut in the budget. I would like to mention three important points. Firstly, facilities disappear from the neighborhood, which means that people have to travel further, if they can. Or they should be taken in because these facilities, with which they could still make it, are disappearing. Secondly, one after the other home care institution fires hundreds or thousands of people, especially the most important domestic helpers. They are an important condition for staying at home. Thirdly, although additional funding has been made available, the shortage of district nurses is, and remains, worrying, not to mention the fact that the health insurance provider does not reimburse nurses' signalling function everywhere, in professional terms S1. It is only used "in the neighbourhoods where the greatest added value is expected from the additional investment." But how can that be determined in advance, I ask the Secretary of State. Prevention is important in every municipality. Does he agree with us? It may be something on the early side, but 50PLUS is very curious whether there is a picture of the number of people who want to make use of the transitional right of the Long-Term Care Act. After all, we have already outlined our great concerns about the additional pressure on the waiting lists that this is going to give. If not, we will be glad to hear about it when we will hear more about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-11.u15	Mr. Chairman. Older people deserve a place where they feel at home. A lot of older people don't find that place in the classic old people's home as we know it. There's been fewer elderly people going there for years. That's what they choose. And yes, you also need fewer nursing homes. You also see more and more alternatives emerging. Small-scale housing initiatives, people who rent or buy their own apartment and arrange care on call, Talishuizen, care cooperatives and the extra care that should make it possible for people to stay in their own environment, something that most people want most. For those who are no longer at home, there is a place in an institution available. Most healthcare organisations have been working on this innovation for years. The Secretary of State's health care reforms are also in line with that. The PvdA supports that. ActiZ's investigation we're talking about now dates back to the healthcare agreement. In that healthcare agreement, the intended extramuralisation of care gravity package 4 was largely removed. The PvdA has also made itself hard for that in this Chamber. For those who no longer live at home, there is a place available in an institution. People who now live in an institution also keep their care indication. The image that people are left to their fate is scary and not justified. Anyone who now resides in an institution can continue to do so, even after the re-indication. However, we see as a problem that healthcare agencies sometimes purchase very rigid and rigid care and do not take into account specific circumstances of a healthcare institution or region. ActiZ warned and wrote to us again yesterday. The PvdA has pointed this out before. What is the Secretary of State going to do about the sometimes very rigid, rigid purchasing policies of healthcare agencies? He has previously indicated, in response to questions from the PvdA, that he is engaging in this discussion with healthcare offices. What has come out of that, if the result for 2015 is worrying in a number of places? Moreover, new care initiatives do not always fit in with the rules of housing or health funders. We are therefore pleased with the search team led by Marnix Norder, which, on behalf of Secretary of State Van Rijn and Minister Blok, is encouraging new initiatives in the area of living and care, helps to solve problems and to take stock of tight regulations. Is the Secretary of State ready to report any findings from that pursuit team? What's he gonna do with that? How does he share the experience with others and with the Chamber? Finally, we welcome innovation in care. In our view, these new developments and alternatives do more justice to our older people than the outdated care homes that we unfortunately find quite often now. Mrs Keijzer mentioned it as well. We are not grieved about closing a half-empty nursing home, whose rooms are too small and the amenities are outdated, or that in any other way no longer meets the requirements of the present time. Our elders deserve better.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-11.u16	That is a nice conclusion to the contribution of the Labour Party: older people deserve better. I think you're right. You speak fine words, in the vein of the fact that some nursing homes are a bit old-fashioned and outdated and that people want to stay home for longer. Then, of course, it's strange if you cut 40% on the budget of home care. We have had many debates on this in this House. My question tonight is specifically about one home care organization, and that is Vérian. There has been no tender and the conditions of the municipalities of Nijmegen are simply the same. How do you feel about this home care organisation asking Vérian to turn in 20% to 30% of its employees? What is the position of the Labour Party?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-11.u17	I can be very brief about that: I don't like that. I can imagine that the people who sit in the public gallery and work at Vérian are angry when they hear that, when nothing has changed in the contract between the municipality and the home care organisation. I get that. So I can be very clear about that question: I do not like it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-11.u18	Well, that's a first step. The Labour Party doesn't approve of that. What is the Labour Party going to do, so that these home care workers simply get their normal pay and don't have to turn in anything? A driver there rakes nearly two tons a year. That's impossible, isn't it? What is the Labour Party going to do in concrete terms to help these home-care workers in this situation, which you say cannot exist?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-11.u19	We have incorporated into the law two important provisions on how we deal with the transfer of personnel. The first is that, if a contract amends a contract that is not mentioned in the situation you are describing, municipalities should talk to the new providers about the transfer of personnel. The second provision is that municipalities must always make a budget available so that at least the collective wage can be paid. This must be done, and I believe that in this situation, the law provides a sufficient basis for employers, employees and the municipalities to work together to find a solution to this problem. You don't have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-11.u20	This is a comprehensive answer to say that the Labour Party is simply not gonna do a fucking thing. Sorry, nothing's gonna do. You're just saying, "The city's gonna have to take care of it." These people, who are sitting here tonight in the public gallery, have been to the municipality and to the home care organisation. Going into conversation is nice, but if the conversation turns out to be just an announcement, it's just a blackmail tool, in the vein of: if you don't turn in 20%, just collective dismissal follows. Can't the Labour Party just let that go and look away? What is the Labour Party going to do to support these people, who have also come here this evening, and to ensure that they are at least paid their full salary, without having to turn in and without changing the circumstances?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-11.u21	With Mrs Siderius, with the SP, I share that this is not a good situation. But it is the municipality, it is the home care provider, it is the employees who have to fight each other. The law makes it very clear that the collective wage is paid. I don't think it's a good situation. This has to be solved, but it has to be done by the people who are going over it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-11.u22	Mrs Siderius, I have given you three opportunities. Oh, you want to use your second interruption. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-11.u23	Apparently, the Labour Party takes back on the law, but that law is not on the side of these home care workers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-11.u24	I really want to ask you not to refer every time to people who are here in the gallery. That's not the way we do it here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-11.u25	I really care about my own words. I understand you don't want to hear this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-11.u26	That's not the point. My point is that we're not supposed to bring people here specifically and then talk about those people. You also know that this is not the intention in this Chamber. People are more than welcome, but they should not be involved in the debate in this way. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-11.u27	Mr. Chairman. This is the house of democracy. We decide about the lives, the future and the perspective of the people in the Netherlands. This also affects the people sitting here in the public gallery. We decide here whether they will keep their jobs, whether they will have to turn in their wages. In any case, government policy aims to ensure that they do not retain their jobs. This is also evident with Thebe and Pantein, for example. That's what my next question is about. Does the Labour Party consider it desirable that the home care workers of, for example, Pantein-Vivent will soon be taken over by another home care organisation at a much lower wage? Some employees have been employed for 40 years, they have been at home care workers for 40 years. It is much better for them to enter the WW, because they will receive a higher benefit than they will receive in the future. How does the Labour Party feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-11.u28	I would just like to respond to Mrs Siderius' statement that the cabinet would do nothing. That's not true. We are indeed seeing a situation in which it is painful to see that, particularly in the corner of domestic aid, home help is hitting a lot. We think it is important that people who cannot arrange it themselves or pay for it keep their housekeeping help. That does mean that there are a number of big hits in a number of places. That was the reason why the PvdA earlier, which was well picked up by the Cabinet, called for a service cheque or a household aid allowance to try to keep people working as much as possible. It is not true that we are not paying attention to employment and that we are not trying to keep people working as much as possible in spite of all the complex changes. That is precisely what is aimed at very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-11.u29	Then I'd like to go over a math with the PvdA. The Secretary of State has gone through the country jubilantly with that household aid allowance. With that, he would retain 19,000 jobs in home care. Yesterday I spoke to the largest home care organisation in the Netherlands and that is TSN. There they say they can apply for the household aid allowance for 500 clients. Suppose a home care worker has five clients, we've kept 100 people at work. What's left of the talk about 19,000 full-time jobs the PvdA promised home care?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-11.u30	Almost every municipality I know has, together with its home-care organisation, at least those who want to move forward to make a success of this household-help allowance. Yes, it must now be demonstrated this year to what extent this will also lead to the preservation of jobs. The commitment is that if all municipalities do what has been agreed with their home care organisations, this will lead to the preservation of 19,000 jobs. It's a good question you're asking. I'll have to put it with you to the Secretary of State. How does the household help allowance work at the moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-11.u31	I already know the conclusion. I don't have to ask. That allowance just doesn't work. That's not crazy, because people have to pay for themselves. For example, the municipality will pay €10 and the client, the older one, will have to pay €10 or €12.50. What does that mean? People who have money can get that allowance and have access to care. People with a thin wallet, with a low income, can't get that supplement. Then we'll go to a division, won't we? People who are rich get care, but people who are poor don't. Is that what the Labour Party is trying to do with this household aid allowance?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-11.u32	No, definitely not. People who can't arrange or pay for their household help themselves, keep that household help through the municipality. I would like to ask that question, despite the fact that it is a little out of order in the debate, because that is about nursing homes. I am curious about the success or the state of play with regard to domestic aid. I'd like to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-11.u33	Mr. Chairman. One of the first questions I always ask myself when I visit a healthcare institution is: would I want my own parents to grow old here? Too often the answer is "no." No, because I hope my parents can stay in their own house as long as possible. No, because buildings are outdated, sometimes it doesn't smell good and the rooms are small. No, because you never want to leave your parents behind closed doors. No, because my parents are used to making their own choices all their lives and deciding what and when they eat, take a walk or whatever. We are facing enormous challenges. We need to get the costs under control in order to keep care affordable in the future and guarantee who really needs it. At least so important is that we adapt care to the new era. More freedom of choice and less unity sausage, more care in the place you want and less care in an institution. That's what a lot of people want. Fortunately, there are many healthcare providers who have reformed in recent years and have adapted to the new era. Fortunately, I also come to places where the answer to many of my questions is 'yes'. So it's possible. For the VVD, freedom of choice and quality of life are central to care and not a building or sector of employment. They are important but not a concern in themselves. The good news is that all the changes we are making in the healthcare sector are also unlocking incredibly much creativity in the sector, which may have been lacking a little too much in recent years. From older people who set up their own housing initiatives to new collaborations between care for the elderly and care for the disabled, where people with learning difficulties go to work in the home for the elderly. The client's freedom of choice must be central. That is why, together with the CDA, we have arranged that in future the money should follow the client and not the other way around, as it is now. Until then, we are left with strange situations, for example that there is a place in an institution, one has a valid indication, one would like to live there, but has to go to another institution because there is no contract at that place by the healthcare office. I ask the Secretary of State how he is going to ensure that, until we have settled this next-person funding, those health care agencies will take even more account of people's preferences in their procurement and procurement policies. Surely he agrees with me that the client's choice and not the contract of the healthcare office should be central?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-11.u34	It's no secret that the VVD wants to take the cuts on care as quickly as possible. The care homes have to be closed in no time, 40% savings are being made on home care and youth care had to take a large part of it. Has the VVD ever looked at the rewards of home care drivers? Is the VVD in such a hurry to get that reward to a decent level? For example, Mr Verweij van Thebe earns €227,601 per year and there were 1.952 redundancies. Is the VVD gonna stop that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-11.u35	There are many assumptions in Mrs Siderius' question. That is a well-known debate technique of the SP. I always find that funny. With all these figures of austerity, it may still be interesting to remember that at the end of this cabinet period we spend even more money on long-term care than we do now. We have taken out the growth; that is also very sensible, because otherwise the care would be priceless. People with families and ordinary jobs would have lost almost half their income in premiums. Yes, we're in a hurry to avoid that problem, Mrs Siderius. Furthermore, in the Netherlands the Wet norming top incomes is in force. You know that debate. I do object to you pretending to take on the salary of such a driver helps these people. Of course, that doesn't make any sense. Then you take a ton off it; how many jobs can you create for that? It is a mockery if you link it to employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-11.u36	We already knew that the jobs of home care workers don't give a shit about the VVD. However, it is important to ensure that care is cut back where the money is. The money is with those directors and in those procurement procedures, with all those external advisors of municipalities who are being jacked in while at the back the home care worker is being kicked out. That's not supposed to happen, is it? Is the VVD willing to look at the places in the care where the money is?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-11.u37	We always do. We are making substantial reductions in the growth of care, including by not automatically putting everyone on the inside, which is a very expensive form of care, and by combating bureaucracy. This is done by introducing a very good new Long-Term Care Act. That's what the SP's against, but all right, the SP's always against everything. We reform that care so that it is given closer to the people and there can be much more customization. Then you do take the money away from where it is. The WNT will also apply to the healthcare sector, but you should not pretend that the financial challenges facing care are solved if we bring down the salaries of drivers in healthcare, some of the biggest problems that have been ignored for too long in this country and which the SP is still ignoring.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-11.u38	The SP is not against everything at all, but it is opposed to the dismantling of the healthcare system and the dismantling of the jobs of all those people who give domestic care to the elderly and those with disabilities in our country in day and day. We are for quality and continuity of care. If it's the VVD's fault, the whole healthcare system is just being helped to the gallemies. And then there are also proud that Mrs Schippers, you are talking about meeting the WNT standard, which gives home care drivers seven years to comply with the WNT standard. It's crazy, isn't it? You demolish the system within a year, but home care directors get seven years to go back in pay. It's really shameless.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-11.u39	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-11.u40	It's a conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-11.u41	This is populism at its best. Mrs Siderius will take that as a compliment. It's very handsome, but I don't have anything to do with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-11.u42	This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'm suspending the meeting for five minutes to allow the Secretary of State to prepare his response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-11.u43	Mr. Chairman. We have had regular discussions recently which will not stop on the changes taking place in care and in particular on the position of nursing homes. I come regularly to the country, where I also have these discussions. How do we look at the future of care homes? There are two ways to look at it. You can say: when a nursing home is closed, it is often very terrible for the people who live there, because it causes a lot of sadness when one has to leave the trusted living environment. You might also ask yourself, what's going on here? Why are we so busy with these changes in care, including in the nursing homes? That has to do with elements that Mrs Keijzer mentioned. We really need to look at how we can ensure that care homes and nursing homes are properly provided for the future. At the moment, people choose to find a place in a nursing home to a much lesser extent. Over the past decades, the number of nursing homes has been halved and the number of people aged 80-plus doubled. When people go to a nursing home, they often do so at a later age. This means that more care is needed, that sometimes another building is needed, that sometimes another organisation is needed and that the expertise of the staff and the scale needs to be discussed. If we do not now ensure that the nursing home sector is prepared for modern times, then we will do our older people and the elderly after our shortage. At the moment, the quality of the care homes is often not good enough for the heavy care that is required there. Two thirds of the buildings date back to 1985 and are often no longer suitable for providing the care required. This means that it is inevitable, but also necessary, to improve the quality of the care homes and to make them fit for the heavier care demand. This means that the situation must be looked at per location. Sometimes one can change a location and convert it into apartments where care is given to the house. Sometimes a heavier demand for care can be facilitated, with staff and buildings being adapted accordingly. We must go through this change together, not because it is so nice to do so, but to ensure that older people are now and later given good care, from well-trained staff, on a good scale and with good management. If we don't do something about it now, we're gonna get worse. If we do not want to make that change now, we are denying how much that change is actually needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-11.u44	I don't want to deny that it's necessary. I know that changes are needed. I also know that there are very old nursing homes and nursing homes. When I didn't return to the Chamber in 2012, I was disappointed, but that gave me the opportunity to take up my beautiful profession of nurse again. That's what I've been doing all along. I have seen the consequences of changing things without providing alternatives in advance. That's the problem here. First of all, there are no residential alternatives. Secondly, people want to stay at home for a longer period of time and ask a thousand elderly people what they want, and they will all say that they want to stay at home while no care has yet been taken care of. The problem is that the latter doesn't happen. Changes are therefore fine, but first make sure that the basis is good and do not break down everything until the quality has improved and new initiatives have been taken. That's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-11.u45	We need to take a look at the overall picture. We seem to agree that there really is a need for changes in nursing care and nursing care. We must then look at how we are further shaping this process. The specific position of people must be taken into account in the daily use and guidance of the home situation. We must be able to look people in the eye instead of giving them an indication from afar. That is why we have said: let us make sure that the municipalities can be organized more closely and perhaps in a better way. Let us ensure that care is given an impetus and that there is no stopwatch, but that the nurse himself can give the indication instead of working with protocols. And yes, we are also talking about household care. I will come back to that in a moment. If we have to reverse every dime, precisely in order to keep the long-term, heavy care towards the future a little out of the wind, I do not think it is unreasonable that we should look at what people can pay and organise for themselves in the case of domestic aid in order to keep it alive for the most vulnerable people. I don't think that's unreasonable. I also understand that there could be big consequences. I'm here to talk about that. We'll do a few things at once. We ensure the necessary improvement of nursing care and nursing care. We organize care closer to the people to take personal circumstances into account. We're gonna get the neighborhood nurse to get a boost. We ensure that, if possible, domestic aid is focused on those who are not self-reliant and vulnerable. People who can organize and pay for it themselves, we ask them to do the same. I think that is a balanced package. Because why is it necessary? Yes, we are spending just as much money in 2018 as in 2013. This, as Mr Van 't Wout says, has brought out growth. However, this still means that we have to fight very hard every day to control the costs in healthcare. We don't do that because it's so much fun to cut back or control. We are doing it precisely because ordinary people with a not too thick wallet already pay about a quarter of their income in healthcare costs. In the case of unchanged policies, that goes to half. That's okay, because spending on the care that is big is something to be proud of, but we have to make sure that people can continue to pay them later. So this sustainability question, this affordability question, is just as important. Changing the quality of care, bringing it closer to people, ensuring that care remains affordable in the future and ensuring that we have a society in which we may look at each other a little more, are principles that we need to anchor in our policies and reasons why that change is so necessary. I also know that it's not just a beautiful story with all kinds of ifs and buts on it. Of course it's terrible when you're in a nursing home and you have to move. Of course, that needs very good guidance. Of course, I can also see that communication is sometimes worthless. We must ensure that people are treated very carefully. But we've also arranged the guarantee that if you're in an institution now and you have an indication, you're entitled to a place in a nursing home or a nursing home. No one's gonna be on the street. We are working, together with the Marnix Norder chasing team, to think about how we make combinations of living, care and well-being to ensure or otherwise establish the neighbourhood function that such a care or nursing home often has. Sometimes you have to create new apartments, but it's not like you're saying: this development means that thousands of new homes have to be built. The fact is that 75% of people with defects in the home situation simply live in their own home. This does not mean that all of a sudden you have to build new homes, but that you have to start thinking about whether the houses can be adapted. Sometimes that is not necessary at all and sometimes very limited resources are needed. There are increasing numbers of tools that people are going to buy themselves. I can see that this change is profound, sometimes profound at a very individual level, but I hope that we can agree that if we do not make this move, we will not be working in a good way to make the care for the future sustainable, affordable and of good quality. That's very necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-11.u46	Would you like to interrupt again, Mrs Gerbrands, or wait for the Secretary of State to tell us more about what he has announced he is going to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-11.u47	No, I was waiting for the Secretary of State to finish his answer. As far as healthcare costs are concerned, I can give the Secretary of State a list of a few billion in savings that nobody loses care of. So there's another way to do that. The Secretary of State states that care is brought to the people in this way. Suppose a nursing home is closed in a neighborhood because the places there are no longer funded. So if people from that neighborhood went to the day business there, they can't go there anymore. People from the neighborhood who went there to eat between noon, lay a pool or whatever, can't go there anymore. After all, the nursing home is no longer there. That's exactly what I meant by "prefer the alternatives." Customized properties? Living and caring? Make sure that's settled before you drop houses. That's the point I wanted to make. That the quality goes up is fine, but make sure before you break the other side.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-11.u48	Mrs Gerbrands is right on that point, but in general you cannot arrange that with some kind of recipe. Of course, it's hard to say that a nursing home has to stay open because of a neighborhood function, for example because people went to eat there together, when no one really wants to live there. That's very valuable, but if no one wants to live there, maybe you'll have to think about how to arrange that neighbourhood function in a different way. I still see every day that people are picked up early in the morning with a van to go to daily spending and guidance, sometimes in a neighboring village or in another neighborhood. We need to think about whether we should not organise this much closer to the people. Transport is cheaper, it is more pleasant for the people and you can bring care much closer to the people. It is therefore not the case that every nursing home should remain open because of its function. You need to see if people still want to live there, if you can fix up the property and if it might be a nursing home. You have to consider very carefully how to combine the neighbourhood function and the welfare function. That's exactly why we've appointed the Marnix Norder chase team. This will allow us to look very specifically at regional level and almost at case level at what needs and can happen, whether there are regulatory bottlenecks and whether they are soluble. This argument leads me to believe that it is very necessary to go through this change in concern with each other. That is not because it is fun, but because it is very important for the elderly and the elderly of today, and for the quality of care homes and nursing homes to organise care more closely and to listen to the people again. It is true that this brings with it major changes, including with regard to domestic aid. That's what I'm getting at. Mrs Siderius has asked a number of questions about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-11.u49	The Secretary of State continues his speech. However, I have the impression that with his long response to this interruption, he has already processed a large part of his papers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-11.u50	That's what I'll try to promote. I'll come to the maid's. Mrs Siderius has mentioned a number of examples of the recent discussion on Thebe and Pantein. On this point, I say to Mrs Siderius that I will speak or visit the people sitting in the gallery again. Let us not pretend that the problems of the institutions we are talking about arose yesterday. For many years there has been a debate as to whether there were any losses in these institutions in such a way as to call into question their continuity. We've known that problem for years. It may have gotten into a gear now, but it's not like this is a problem today or yesterday. Then the question is whether you can keep such an institution alive, or whether there is bankruptcy. Fortunately, we in the Netherlands have a careful right to do so: bankruptcy law. The judge checks whether or not such bankruptcy is justified. That's what happened in this case. The decision was even challenged once and reconfirmed by the judge. That's terrible for people. In one blow, and then again before Christmas, employment is under discussion. Your employer tells you right before Christmas that you don't have a job anymore. I'm really sorry about that, and I'm terrifying. At the same time, we need to look at how the framework conditions need to be fulfilled and what we need to do to deal with them properly. We have agreed on three safeguards. The first is that, when such a situation occurs, we first of all ensure that there is as much continuity of care as possible for those who need care. Municipalities were quick to ensure that this discussion could take place as quickly as possible, in order to ensure as much continuity of care as possible. I think that's very good and admirable. It is a sign that municipalities take this in a very good way. The second guarantee in such a bankruptcy situation is that we are fighting for employment. In the 2007 Wmo, but even more strongly in the 2015 Wmo, it is regulated that in such a situation the municipality will see if people can be taken over by other organisations together with the healthcare provider. Municipalities have made a great effort to do so, sometimes against the curator, because other solutions were better. It is a compliment to the municipalities that they have been able to act very quickly in this appalling situation in order, on the one hand, to ensure continuity of care for each other and, on the other hand, to ensure that as many people as possible are taken over. The third guarantee is about salaries. We have laid down in this law that municipalities should charge a rate such that collective bargaining salaries can be paid. As you know, that discussion is still ongoing. The parties are still trying to see if they can conclude a collective agreement. It is then very worthless that there is also an option on the table where you enter a new organization with a lower salary. That's not just not funny, it's terrible. We must create safeguards in this place within which that process takes place. Then employers and employees have to agree on how to shape that process. They have to obey the law. That is what action is being taken and that is very good. It is also very good that unions are interfering to ensure that workers have a strong position in this negotiation. However, the starting point must be to ensure, as far as possible, the continuity of care and the maintenance of employment, and that, within the framework conditions that we have set in the Netherlands, rates can be set for the payment of collective wages. Then we cannot say here about the individual salaries that result from it. I'm also very sorry if there's a drop in that. I can imagine people being angry and sad about that. But these are the conditions that we have been able to deal with each other. I understand very well that people are fighting for their jobs and for their salaries and that action can and must be taken to see if that results in a good result.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-11.u51	Unfortunately, it is a bit of free sympathy from the Secretary of State. He says, "It's no fun if you have to turn in your salary." It's horrible, it's terrifying, he said. But if you suddenly earn €10.08 gross per hour and have to turn in 30% of your salary, it means that when you pay a home care employee that you may not be able to pay your fixed expenses, that you can no longer pay your rent, that you cannot pay the energy bill. If the Secretary of State has to turn in 20% or 30%, I think he'll make it. Maybe he doesn't even notice, but for the people who were here tonight, that leads to questions like: can I stay in my house, do I have to build up debts, can my child still go on a school trip? After all, that responsibility lies with the Secretary of State. The Secretary of State says that the municipalities should charge good rates, which we have laid down in the law, but if the Secretary of State had not cut 40% on home care, those municipalities could also have a decent rate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-11.u52	This looks very much like a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-11.u53	Yeah, that's why my question...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-11.u54	Mind if I finish? I'm talking to you. This looks very much like a second term and not an interruption. Interruptions are short, as stated in our Rules of Procedure, but you are going to give a comprehensive consideration here. I ask you not to do that, but to make short, clear comments or questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-11.u55	My question to the Secretary of State is whether he does not feel responsible for these home care workers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-11.u56	As we all feel responsible for people in trouble; as we all feel responsible for making good conditions. If there is a situation of bankruptcy in which you risk losing your job, one of the worst things that can happen to you, then we have to ensure that the conditions we have agreed for such situations are respected very well. First of all, we need to look at whether there really is bankruptcy or whether this is under discussion. That's a judge's test. Then we'll see if we can arrange very quickly that there's as much continuity as possible for people who get care. Then we will also see if we can ensure that other institutions can take over those staff so that they can keep their jobs. I would point out that this has also happened. That is also a good thing. Then we look at the salary conditions. We have set a framework for this. Employers and employees speak about this in this country. Of course, we all have to support vulnerable people, but it is about whether we have reasonable framework conditions for this and that parties can play their part in it. I note that the municipalities have done so. The continuity of care and the take-over of staff seem to be successful. The employers and employees are now negotiating, both in this concrete case and in the collective agreement for 2015. I am as sorry as Mrs Siderius when it comes to individual people, but at least we have to ensure that it takes place within the rules we have designed with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-11.u57	Following this reply, it is concluded that the Secretary of State apparently considers that he himself has no responsibility for this. I deeply regret that. Then I'd like to ask you one more question about Vérian. There hasn't been a tender. There were no changed circumstances. Then it is strange that the home care workers in Nijmegen have to meet the poor tender conditions from Lochem. Vérian has a good rate in Nijmegen, but in Lochem and in other municipalities there is poor negotiation, which means that the employees in Nijmegen have to turn in their salary. That's not supposed to happen, is it? I would like to hear an opinion from the Secretary of State on this situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-11.u58	I have to be a little careful giving an opinion on a specific case. The financial position of an institution may also give rise to discussions with employers and employees on how to deal with it. I understand that this consultation is ongoing. Around 316 people, mostly women, have objected to the offer they have received. That's gonna have to take its course. They are supported by the trade unions. They're for it, too. The financial situation may be such that there is bankruptcy. It may also be the case that one is going to jointly consider how the company can be saved. Then you will have to consider on the spot what the consultation between employers and employees will bring. Let's not tell each other this is beautiful and fun. It's not fun at all. It's very rotten and annoying. However, it is good to keep an eye on the rules with each other. I disagree that I have not taken responsibility for this. We've arranged continuity of care in the Wmo-new style, haven't we? We have arranged for monitoring to be carried out and for staff to be taken over where this is at stake. We've arranged decent rates so that collective wages can be paid, haven't we? That's taking responsibility, too. I hope that Mrs Siderius has some sympathy for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-11.u59	She can pronounce that. I call Mrs Siderius.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-11.u60	If we had considered it sufficient and wanted to take responsibility for it, we would have supported this amendment. We have not done so, because we have provided for all these problems, old people who are losing their care and home care workers who are on the streets. I hope that the Secretary of State will continue to study the case of Vérian. It is not intended that home care workers in Nijmegen should have to cope with the poor tenders in other municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-11.u61	Vérian too has to comply with the law. If the institution's financial continuity is at stake, employers and employees will have to talk to each other about how they intend to cope with it. Mrs Siderius has asked if home care is a profession. Yes, of course home care is a profession. This is, by the way, filled in in many different ways. We see that home care is filled in in several ways. For very vulnerable people who cannot arrange or pay for it themselves, the municipality offers an arrangement. Sometimes the municipality offers it to be arranged. With the household aid supplement an additional contribution has been made to the municipalities. It has been examined whether you can make a combination between a contribution from the municipality and a contribution from yourself. May I also mention another aspect of the household aid supplement? We are going to talk about whether this is a success. It's too soon for that. However, I note that 99% of the municipalities have requested it and are working on it. In places where there is or could be job losses, it also has a function in preventing people from automatically becoming alpha helpers. With that household help supplement we can try to keep regular jobs for them. It's too early for judgment, but you can see that there's been a certain brake on the automatic reboot to the alpha help. With this household aid allowance, all the municipalities in the Netherlands are thinking about how they can retain regular jobs in this way. I do not yet know whether this is a success, but I do note that we have taken a substantial step to look at personal services differently. I hope that we will not only talk about a household help supplement later, but that we will perhaps look more broadly at how we can increase the perspective for people in regular work in the personal services sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-11.u62	I'm getting a little uncomfortable in this debate. We are having a debate on the closure of nursing homes. The CDA Group has an explicit opinion on the household aid allowance, which corresponds in parts to that of the SP Group. Are we not going to discuss this issue in the Labour Market AO policy soon? Otherwise, I don't feel right here. I would have liked to have said a few things about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-11.u63	I noticed that some people were looking around and wondering if this was all supposed to be here. You are now putting that specifically. I suggest that we stick to the real subject of the debate a little more closely. Is that a translation of your question? I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-11.u64	There were a few questions asked about it, so I tried to answer it. If the Chamber allows me not to always do so, I will use it. Mrs Gerbrands asked a number of questions about why the closure of care homes. We had an exchange of views on this. Mrs Keijzer asked about the action plan and the hunting team and about the regulatory bottlenecks. As Mrs Keijzer knows, a motion has been adopted calling for an integrated Transition Agenda to be independent living with Mr Blok. This will be followed up by, among other things, the hunting team. The pursuit team has two functions. It can fly into situations where new combinations need to be sought between living, care and often also well-being. It speaks with care offices, housing corporations, healthcare providers and municipalities, always considering at regional level whether bottlenecks can be solved. The chasing team is just in progress. There are a few problems at the front, such as the question: should there not be much more room for social activities of housing corporations under housing? That is a very technical point. The ACM has been consulted on the extent to which healthcare providers may consult each other, with the municipality, in order to arrive at joint solutions. The chasing team is involved in a case on Ameland and the Stichting Ouderenhuizen Rotterdam, as promised to the Chamber. If Mrs Keijzer has another case that is extremely interesting to look at, be my guest, submit it and I will make sure that the chasing team will look into it. Minister Blok and I will send you a progress report before the summer on the Transition Agenda Langer independent living, in which we will write comprehensively on good examples, on the legislative and regulatory bottlenecks identified by the Chasing Team and on the successes that can still be achieved.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-11.u65	I thank the Secretary of State for the promise that I may deliver the case to Edam. I hear the Secretary of State now say "there was the other part of my question about ""that in the summer he will send a progress report on converting former nursing homes into senior apartments or nursing homes." In December 2013, I tabled a motion that saw this. In December 2014, I tabled a motion that saw this. On 6 November 2014, we had an endless debate. Mrs. Gerbrands just said, if you're gonna rebuild, you're gonna have to make sure you're on time. I think the summer's a little late. Can't there be a little action?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-11.u66	That action is there, but it's not always the same recipe. Sometimes there is conversion to heavier care places, sometimes there is conversion to apartments and sometimes there is rental to others. Let me give you an example. By the end of 2013, there were about 26,000 places occupied with clients with a care pack 1 to 3. I hear Mrs Keijzer wants to sit down. I have no objection to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-11.u67	Mrs Keijzer said she wanted to write down the figures.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-11.u68	By the end of 2013, there were about 26,000 places occupied with clients with azzp 1 to 3. Between 2010 and 2013, the number of clients with azzp 1 to 3 in an institution decreased by around 20,000. 17,000 places are occupied by clients with highzzp. The purchases forzzp's for 2015 are known in February; I will involve them in my progress report. So you can already see that fewer people with a zzp 1 to 3 end up in nursing homes, which for a large part turn into heavier care spots. It is therefore not appropriate to convert the nursing home immediately for other apartments or for the separation of living and care. Sometimes it just becomes heavier care spots, which, by the way, affect the building, the staff and the scale on which you do things. If places for zzp 1 to 3 disappear, this is not an immediate reason to rebuild the entire nursing home. That depends very much on what the question is. I note that, so far, there has been a very strong replacement of people with a higher concern. The results of the second round of production agreements for 2014 and the agreements for 2015 are not yet known. In February 2015, I will have insight into the national figures, after the Dutch Healthcare Authority has checked them. Mr Krol asked how many people made use of what was called the Transitional Law on Long-Term Care. As the Chamber knows, there are different types of transitional right. After such a short time in 2015, I cannot give an integral picture. I would like to come back to this in the first progress report as well. Mr Krol made a number of comments on the so-called "neighborhood nurse s1." It may not give him, or perhaps unconsciously, the impression that the indication or signaling can only be done by an s1 neighbourhood nurse. That's not true. The neighborhood nurse care, including signaling and indicating, is just in the Health Insurance Act. Only a very small budget has been added, namely 40 million, to make a very specific connection between the district nurse and the municipality, for example the district teams. That doesn't have to be with all the district nurses and not in every neighborhood. You will, of course, have a discussion about where to do so and where not to do so. For this, you look at population and make sure that there is good consultation between municipalities and health insurance companies. Sometimes one of the two parties is dissatisfied with that. That piece "s1" is actually only meant to connect to the municipal domain. All the work, such as those relating to the indication and the signaling, is simply in the financing of the district nurse care. Mr Krol also asked a number of questions about the waiting lists. I very much agree with Mr Krol that the discussion with the client and his relatives should consider whether it can still be done at home and what actions should be taken. That can easily change for all kinds of reasons. So I also said that waiting list registration should not be an administrative registration, but a registration based on conversations with the people themselves. I'm not sure we should record that separately. As far as the demands I have made are concerned, I mentioned in the further consultation and in the letter received by the Chamber on the waiting lists that it is not just the note on the waiting list, but that it should also be examined whether it is based on conversations with the people themselves in order to obtain the best possible picture of that list. That should be especially on the retina of professionals. So I very much agree. I'm already making a bridge to Mr Van 't Wout's contribution. We need to ensure that in their procurement policies care agencies take into account not only the existing infrastructure and contracts that have been concluded in the past, but also the development of the waiting list. If a waiting list of a particular institution grows, that may be reason to contract that institution more and not other institutions. As long as we have not yet put in place the next funding, that is a difficult operation, because of course you have to take account of the existing infrastructure. You can't just say, "I'm gonna take half your budget and take it to another institution." It is necessary, I also say to Mr Van Dijk, that the care office takes greater account of individual wishes. You need to make sure that the waiting list information is looked at, that it is based on calls and that customer support can take place at the healthcare offices. This is the basis for a good care buy-in that does not take place via a spreadsheet, but takes into account differences between institutions. For example, this can be explicitly taken into account in the redistribution of budgets. So that translation per institution referred to by Mr Van Dijk will also have to be more and more part of the procurement policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-11.u69	I also asked a question on this point. It's all nice to say where we're going in the future, but what about the people who have a valid indication on a waiting list, who are told there's no place, because the healthcare office hasn't bought enough? I am not talking about people who say that they necessarily want to be placed in institution X, but about people who do not get a place in their environment because too little has been bought in. So what happens to these people now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-11.u70	The Dutch Healthcare Authority checks every year. She looks at how much budget is available to buy in care and what the need for care is. That's being reviewed by the NZa at macro level. The budgets are then distributed among the healthcare offices, which then start buying care. A healthcare provider may be dissatisfied with the contract concluded with the healthcare office. After all, care agencies have to distribute these budgets and take into account waiting lists and supply and demand in the region. There are places in the Netherlands where there is a surplus of nursing homes, which means that the healthcare office will have to say to some healthcare providers: sorry, we should gradually make sure that care places are removed here, because they are more needed in another place. That healthcare provider will be very dissatisfied. He says there are waiting lists, I have places, but they don't come to me. Those places might be bought from another location because people want to go there. It's a little bit of two and one. If you take more account of people's desires to end up in a particular institution, it will inevitably lead to other institutions losing places and production. That shift will take place.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-11.u71	I do not care whether or not a healthcare institution is satisfied with the purchase, it concerns me the patient or the older one who has an indication and cannot go to the region. When I hear the Secretary of State, someone from The Hague can be heard: there is still room in Groningen; go there. I don't think that's the idea right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-11.u72	No, that's part of one of the issues. People say in many cases: if it is no longer at home and I want to go to an institution, then I prefer to go to an institution of my choice. There's not always a spot for them. Then waiting lists are created, and the healthcare office has to say: we have to take this into account more and more; we have to redistribute these budgets, as it were. It's two-and-a-half. You want to take people's wishes into account as much as possible. Sometimes people want to go to a specific institution, creating waiting times. If these waiting times become too long, there must be bridging care, because people need to be taken care of. You have to talk to them regularly about whether they still want to wait for the setting of their choice or whether something else can be arranged for them. That conversation should not even take place in such a long time, but very periodically because the situation may also deteriorate. Neighborhood nurses and general practitioners should keep an eye on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-11.u73	Really now your last brief remark, Mrs Gerbrands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-11.u74	That wasn't the group I was talking about. I'm talking about the group of people where it really doesn't work anymore at home and who just want to have a place; they're not specifically on institution A. They're on a waiting list because there's no room. This has nothing to do with the wishful thinking the Secretary of State is talking about. We are talking about people who are in extreme need, who are no longer able to live at home and who are still placed on a waiting list. I want to know what's gonna happen to those people.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-11.u75	Then I would advise Mrs Gerbrands to take a closer look at the letter I sent before Christmas. In that letter I went through the entire waiting list again and looked at the urgent cases and the people who are waiting for a preference. That piece shows that there are no major bottlenecks for those who are not specifically waiting for a place. It is true that the wishes of people who are waiting for an institution of their choice cannot always be met immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-11.u76	I am pleased that, in response to my question on the sometimes very rigid procurement policy of healthcare agencies, the Secretary of State has indicated that there is no need to buy on the basis of spreadsheets, but that is what is happening. At the end of last year I asked the Secretary of State to discuss this with the health offices. The Secretary of State said he was gonna do that. When yesterday we received a report from ActiZ that shows that there is still buying on the basis of spreadsheets, it was clear to me that something did not go well. What the hell came out of that conversation with those health offices? If a healthcare provider is dealing with a spreadsheet offer, just to put it bluntly, what can he do?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-11.u77	Two things happen every time. The budgets are being distributed. In addition, it looks at the clients you had and have in your care facility. This already leads to a draw of the budget. Then you're going to make an assessment of the number of clients that will be added. That's the heart of the conversation, because you always have to have enough budget for the people you have. That's what the purchasing discussions are about right now. The healthcare office says, sometimes on the basis of a spreadsheet, occasionally: the demand in this region is greater than the demand in that region, so this region buys more than that. It will be clear that a number of institutions are dissatisfied with this, precisely because the healthcare office makes those choices. The next step is then how, even more intelligently, you can take into account the specific situation of how things work in that institution. That's what I'm talking to the health offices about. It is about, for example, dividing it not only on the basis of regional needs, but looking at how it works per particular institution. I would also like to look at ActiZ's report, which I believe was submitted yesterday. I'd appreciate it if you could take a look at these.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-11.u78	I would like to hear a response from the Secretary of State to that report, especially as some, particularly smaller, healthcare providers say that they are actually offered a spreadsheet offer. Of course, there will always have to be a discussion about what is happening specifically in a particular region in a particular situation, in order to arrive at a conclusion on that basis. I assume the Secretary of State agrees.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-11.u79	Sure, I'll check it out. By the way, it is still good to be able to calculate things. Mr Van Dijk will agree with me. I would like to point out that this is already a little bit at issue here, and that in the future, of course, clients will have a lot more options to opt for an offer via pgb's, a full package at home or a modular package at home. That puts the client much more in a position to make their own choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-11.u80	That is true for the future, and that is already the case. The experience is that especially smaller healthcare providers and sometimes private home providers are not at all on the retina of the healthcare office. They're not contracted, they don't necessarily have to. It is, of course, important that if someone cannot turn to the place of his preference, alternatives are really looked at, wider than just that which has been contracted by the healthcare office. I also had another conversation this morning with a number of small healthcare providers. I would like the healthcare offices to point out that there are also providers outside the contracted offer and that they also have it on the retina.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-11.u81	Agreed. This may also lead to a shift between the previously contracted offer and the newly contracted offer that comes with it. There's no free lunch. That means that if you take less of the existing and want to do more of the new, you will also make choices in the existing offer. This in turn leads to discussions which Mr Van Dijk calls. That is what we hope to see in the coming period in a very good way. I see now that I have skipped a question from Mrs Keijzer, namely when you are eligible for a nursing home. That is in the same way as it was, namely through the criteria of thezzp 4 as we had and as we also incorporated them into the Long-Term Care Act. You know these care profiles. They have not changed on that point either, other than the deletion of the minutes we were all so happy with. Those criteria for access to the Long-Term Care Act are comparable in this respect to the access criteria for the AWBZ. Finally, the debate we had with Mr Van 't Wout and Mr Van Dijk on the position of the health offices. Of course, we are also working on the healthcare renewal agenda, not only with alternatives through a modular or a full package at home, but also with parties that draw up a healthcare renewal agenda. In particular, it deals with issues relating to whether we should go to more personalised funding or to multi-annual contracting in order to promote innovation. Or do you have to look for combinations? We are far from finished talking about this, but be sure that we will put it high on our agenda. So much for my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-11.u82	I'll take a look around to see if there's a need for a second term. That's the case. Is there a need for a suspension prior to the second deadline? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-11.u83	Mr. Chairman. I have two motions on the nursing homes and the waiting lists for them, because I did not find the answer very reassuring. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are still waiting with an existing indication for a place in a nursing home;]] [[Whereas the closure of care homes will not reduce this number;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that care homes are not closed unnecessarily,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that care firms do not sign enough contracts for people with a slight indication (zzp 1, 2, 3 and 4);]] [[Whereas this means that rooms are unnecessarily empty in nursing homes, with the result that they have to close down;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that any person with an existing indication of care with residence should not suffer the consequences of the policy of health care offices and should be able to be included at any time in the institution in the event of sufficient capacity,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Gerbrands. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34104-6]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Gerbrands. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34014-7]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-11.u84	Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government not to accept wage sacrifices from home care workers in the context of municipal policies in the absence of any change in the circumstances;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Siderius. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34104-8]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-11.u85	My next motion is about bankrupt home care organizations. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that, in the event of the bankruptcy of a home care organisation, staff retain the same established labour rights if the work is taken over by another home care provider,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Siderius. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34104-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-11.u86	Mr. Chairman. I have called attention to converting care homes to, for example, nursing homes or to senior apartments. I also raised this on 6 November. Then Secretary of State Van Rijn said: what can the government do in terms of legislation and regulation and promoting investment that should provoke investment? He was talking about the novelle of Blok. He was talking about the chase team. He talked about using ActiZ to see how the financial reserve position could be changed. Those are all concrete things to get this right. Today he answers in particular: it's casuistic and on a case-by-case basis you have to see what's going on. He said that he would come forward with concrete proposals around the summer. There is nothing else to wait for, because it is a bit of a waste of time to put forward a motion in the vein of: now make haste with that. I'll just wait and report the case. That's a nice test case. I'll follow it up close.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-11.u87	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for his answers and commitments. Can I still hear when the progress report can be expected? I would remind you once again of the absurd situation that in a nursing home there can be clients on the waiting list and there are empty apartments. That can't be sold with all the cuts on home care. They affect not only the people who can no longer go there, but also the employees, many of whom are losing their jobs. I agree with Mr Gerbrands that the framework conditions of this policy should have been introduced much earlier. 50PLUS agrees with Mrs Siderius that the mess with the home care staff should end. Moreover, it is not just about keeping people at work, but also about taking good care of people who need them. It is precisely home care workers who ensure that costs remain manageable in the future, by allowing people to stay longer in their familiar environment. It is unwise to cut back on this now. It's prevention. In a while, it's just gonna be an extra cost increase. Carefulness is about speed, but it seems that this cabinet is looking at it in the opposite direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-11.u88	Mr. Chairman. The Gerbrands motion in part No. 6 I would advise against. A link is made between the number of nursing homes and the number of waiting persons. We have just arranged for people in need of heavy care to continue to have access to a nursing home, while we are extramuralising the light care. In this sense, no care homes are unnecessarily closed down. Transitional rights have been established for people who already live in an institution. That's why I'd like to dissuade the motion. In the Gerbrands motion in part No. 7 the government is asked to ensure that everyone with a valid indication is not affected by the policy of the health offices. Anyone with a valid indication shall retain the right, including the right to a place in an institution. This also means that the contract must ensure that sufficient money goes to health care institutions to keep the people in the institution. That's what we follow with each other. We look at the beginning, in the middle and at the end of the year to see if there is enough money going there. We have regular discussions with the Chamber about this. The health care authority reports on it, too. Theoretically or perhaps practically, there is not enough money to finance the resident residents. Then we must work together to ensure that we make further budgetary considerations here. There must always be enough money for the resident population in the institution. That is precisely why we have arranged for the indication to remain valid. We need to be able to follow that up a few times a year. That's why I'm dissuading the motion. In motion No. 8 is asked not to accept wage sacrifices from home care workers. That is what the government is being asked for, although it is really a matter that needs to be negotiated and resolved locally between employers and employees. That's why I'm dissuading the motion. In the motion in part No. 9 states that it is necessary to ensure that in the event of bankruptcy the rights are always maintained. That's not possible. There's another job at another organization. We simply cannot give the guarantee that the accumulated labour rights will be maintained. That's why I'm dissuading the motion. We've been asked when the progress report will be sent to the Chamber. We agreed that a progress report would be made every quarter. The Chamber can look forward to that. On June 6th. We have sent a letter about the hunting team, in which we report on the bottlenecks that the hunting team has seen so far. Moreover, I would like to confirm that we have not only agreed on the hunting team, but that many other points have been agreed, including those mentioned by Mrs Keijzer, such as the position of reserves. Those appointments aren't gonna happen. We will report to the Chamber on that. Those appointments had already been made, and that's where the hunting team, as it were, came in.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-11.u89	I thank the Secretary of State for his presence and the answers given. We shall be voting on the motions for resolutions tabled next Tuesday.
