ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome all those present in the Chamber and in the public gallery, and those who follow this debate in a different way. I am happy to give the floor to Mr Van Oosten.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. A week or two ago, the Permanent Committee for the Interior discussed the proposed merger between the municipalities of Edam-Volendam and Zeevag. Despite their political differences, the members present did not appear to have any serious arguments against the proposed merger. In addition, it appeared that it is customary in the Chamber not to have a municipal reclassification take place except after consideration has been given to this in this Chamber. Therefore, on behalf of our colleagues from the SP, the PvdA, GroenLinks, the SGP, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) There was not enough time to approach the other groups. We thank the minister and his department, and in particular the municipalities of Edam-Volendam and Zeevag and all associated social and administrative organisations. On behalf of my colleagues, I wish the new municipality all the best.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-3.u3	I now give the Home Secretary an opportunity to respond. I would, however, like to make up for a delay in advance, because I have not yet welcomed him. That is what I am doing: Minister, do you feel welcome in this Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-3.u4	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Chamber for its support for this proposal. Indeed, thanks also to all those who have prepared this, including the unnamed provincial government that has also played a role in this. After this merger a municipality with an area of more than 79 km and 35,000 inhabitants was created. It is perhaps good to point out that the present municipality of Zeeving consists of seven cores: Beets, Hobrede, Kwadijk, Middelie, Oosthuizen, Schardam and Warder; I hope that the chairman can point them all out on a blind map. The municipality of Edam-Volendam currently consists of the cores Edam, Volendam and the polder area Purmer. These cores will form the new municipality of Edam-Volendam. The reclassification corresponds to the keys normally released on it. I mention support, internal cohesion, governance, balanced regional relations and sustainability. I think it would be a good idea to do it this way. I would point out that the new municipal council will be chosen for the start of the new calendar year, probably on 18 November 2015. In accordance with the new rules of the ARHI Act, the elected municipal board will then have a term of six years and three months. The elections in March 2018 will be skipped for the newly formed municipality, so that one can sit a full and even a little longer than a full period of time. I wish the newly formed municipal administration much success and wisdom in governing its municipality. I wish the inhabitants the best in this new constellation. I wish the two municipalities success in settling the final parts of the route towards the merger.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-3.u5	Thank you for this response and for the efficient handling of this far-reaching legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-3.u6	The vote on the bill will take place tomorrow.
