ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u1	Mr. Chairman. Before the climate trial, 900 citizens were in court to be protected from the dangers of climate change such as floods, extreme weather, loss of agricultural land and more deaths of elderly and young children from heat. In the meantime, the cabinet has said that it is going to execute this judgment. The current plans for wind on land are urgently needed. So this time the Minister will find me on his side. Two thirds of the wind on land is built, under construction or in procedure. Unfortunately, nothing has been arranged for a third. There are also problems in the province of Friesland. I actually want to try to deal with three issues quickly. First: GroenLinks proposes that the provinces should not impose any super-statutory requirements in the realisation of wind farms in their province. The second point concerns something we have already asked for. The Minister must look for reserve locations, because no planning will achieve 100%, while I believe we have 0.02 reserve locations for wind on land. The third point is that the SDE+ scheme is also about timeliness. If we want to execute the judge's ruling and have those mills stand in 2020, we cannot only grant the money in 2019. After all, it takes two years, and often much longer, before the mills are there. So these are the three main points of what I am trying to argue here. The reason for the debate was that provinces do not like the windmills. The Minister has made binding agreements with the provinces. I would like to hear what he thinks about many drivers saying that they do not like these appointments. 17% of the members of Deputy States think we're really gonna make this happen. What can we all do to ensure that we are going to make it, and for the climate, and to comply with the important ruling of the judge? I come to the super-statutory standards. I take the province of Noord-Holland as an example, but this also happens in other provinces. In Noord-Holland the province itself thought that windmills should be 600 meters away from building and that they should be in a straight line per six. The installation of windmills should not follow, for example, the curvature of a stream, and in a port area, for example, there should not be two or three mills side by side. So there must be six mills in a straight line. The province of Noord-Holland has also demanded that if a new mill is built, two old ones must be removed. The people who have old mills in North Holland have united in one organization. They have now set firm price demands. A number of new initiatives are not at all capable of achieving this. How does the Minister feel about this? It's kind of like a cartel, isn't it? Does he agree with me that provincial super-statutory demands stand in the way of rapid realization? That is certainly important now that the urgency is so great. We hear a lot of saying that windmills cause noise. I was also allowed to make some visits and do homework in the summer. I've discovered that police forces have expensive sets for sound measurement. They're actually dusting and they rarely come out of their shell. These sets can be used to measure whether noise standards are being exceeded. I agree with the residents. If they experience too much noise under the law, that mill must be removed. That's what I think of all kinds of things, of highways but also of windmills. Can the Minister ask his colleagues if they can be maintained a little more? Is the law broken with windmills at certain locations? I'll be at the backup locations. We've tried in many ways. Is the Minister prepared to have a list of places where there is support, local, and where there are plans to set up windmills, but where the province does not include it in its plans? I myself know about five, six, and I'm sure the Minister knows a lot more. If we don't make it, at least there could be a spare.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u2	You've run out of time, Mrs. Van Tongeren. But Mr Bosman has a question, perhaps that can save you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u3	I'm always willing to save Mrs. Van Tongeren. She talks about reserve locations, but I think GroenLinks wants a lot more windmills. Does GroenLinks now talk about reserve locations or locations that are going to be used in the future, not so much as a reserve location but simply as a location that will be filled with all kinds of windmills, given the ambition of GroenLinks?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u4	I think that's the ambition of all of us. As a chamber, I believe that as one man and one woman, we support the ambition of having a CO-neutral economy by 2050. Then there will be a lot more and other measures to be taken, but I am not a caterpillar-never-satisfied. First of all, I would like to encourage and support the Minister with ideas to at least achieve the current plans, and that already requires a great deal. Mr Bosman also knows that there will never be 100% of all plans, so it is much better to plan 110%, because then we will at least reach this set of agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u5	I was concerned with the question of principle. A tip from the veil was already swindled. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, there must be a lot more windmills, preferably in all kinds of places, in locations that are now seen as reserve locations and in many more places. That is the concern I wish to express. Mrs. Van Tongeren says that the Chamber stands behind that as one man. That doesn't apply to the VVD. We hope for innovation. We hope that there are other ways, so that we do not have to put those windmills everywhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u6	I am surprised to hear that the VVD Group no longer supports the need for a CO-neutral society by 2050. If you want to do so, you will have to take many more measures between 2020 and 2050. GroenLinks thinks of geothermal energy, much more efficiency and more wind at sea. This afternoon, we were in a little debate together. I'm a big fan of the ridge turbine. That is also an opportunity to use wind energy. Everywhere we have roofs in the Netherlands and solar energy cannot, a ridge turbine can. I do not like a specific form of clean energy, but that we will need more of it, Mr Bosman and I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u7	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u8	We're doing interruptions in two.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u9	Yes, Mr President, but a statement has been made that is not true, namely that the VVD would not stand for renewable energy by 2050. We have just said that we do not need to fill the whole country with windmills. That's the essence. I'm glad GroenLinks has that message too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u10	It's all in the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u11	Mr. Chairman. The following applies to the SP. Energy agreement? Yes. Energy transition? Yes. From fossil to sustainable is needed? Yes. Save it? Yeah, too. But in the energy agreement there are many roads that lead to Rome and the road wind on land is not exactly the newest highway, not even the Via Appia. It's a winding, bumpy and tricky road. That's why we're here. In our view, I would like to hear from the Minister whether he sees it as such, and there is a huge democratic deficit if I confine myself to Drenthe and Groningen in particular for a moment. Many parties here in this Chamber have a different view than their own colleagues in the province and the municipality. From time to time, the whole procedure in the north in terms of wind on land gives the impression of a return to a feudal era in which it is determined from this room and from the Ministry of Economic Affairs what is good for people who are waiting for a very big change of landscape. How does the Minister feel about that? How does he look at the statements made by the King's Commissioner in Drenthe, bearing in mind that he may nevertheless be deemed to represent the province's position? What does he think of the fact that Wakker Emmen is the largest party in the municipality of Emmen? Nothing to the detriment of Wakker Emmen's colleagues, but the fact that a party is getting so big in a municipality purely because there has been no alignment with the population about wind energy is a cause for concern. I have a few questions for the Minister about the state coordination scheme. Is it true that the state coordination system is there to push things against the will of people, as an official of the minister in Meeden said before the recess? Does the lack of support prove that the state coordination regime is necessary? The ministers' predecessors have confirmed in writing that support is needed before the National Coordination Scheme can be implemented. Is the Minister sure he's the competent authority for the three parks in the Drenthe Veenkoloniën? Added together, they come above 100 megawatts, but is it possible to add them together? The applications of Raedthuys and De Drentse Monden were accepted on 8 July 2010. That was a day after the establishment of the provincial environmental vision in Drenthe. The applications must have been submitted well before the province had identified the search areas. Oriental nut was added later. All this took place well before the Infrastructure and Space Structure Vision and the Wind on land vision. The Ministry of EZ therefore granted the applications for the National Coordination Scheme without the State having a spatial framework for it. According to the Minister, is that so? And if so, does he think that is the right way to proceed? Moreover, in the letter to Raedthuys dated 8 July 2010 from Minister Van der Hoeven, point 3: "You are also primarily responsible for obtaining support for the project in the region." Is that satisfied in the eyes of the Minister? Does the Minister still see room for alternatives? Can we look at the alternatives that Drenthe has devised, such as the Solar Park Veenkoloniën, which can realize the same number of megawatts as the intended wind farms? Think of the combination with home insulation. We read about a nice example in Ooorn the other day. A farmer turned his property into a smart grid there. Think of Blue Energy in Groningen. It will provide much more employment opportunities for people in social work places and for those who are increasingly moving to Ter Apel than is currently the case. The commission for the m.e.r. Says in her report following the Wind on land structural vision that she has not been able to look at alternatives. My question to the Minister is: can alternatives still be considered in Drenthe? Finally, I would like to ask one question, because time has already passed. Are there any ways to better distribute the lusts and burdens? I am thinking, for example, of a guarantee fund or an environmental financial compensation. My advice to the Minister is to call this off and do it again. People have been harvesting energy from peat for centuries. Let them now plant energy again in a way that does justice to the history of the area and which strengthens social cohesion and does not destroy it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u12	I've been to work in Drenthe, too. In fact, I have already done so in the previous period of government. I have seen that there was already incredibly long and much consultation at that time. I understand that. I do not think it is a good idea to have windmills in front of and behind houses. However, I do not understand very well where the SP is. We want to move forward. We want to achieve the objectives of the Energy Agreement and realise what is stated in the judgment in the Urgenda case. Is that what the SP wants? If so, how can it be that I regularly see requests from that party which lead to delays, which call for another look and start over? Would it be possible to get the entire population of Drenthe behind this? How does Mr Smaling see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u13	My preference is to agree on a mission with Drenthe, as has happened. You can translate that into megawatts, but I say: turn the content into an energy mix involving the population. Then you can get a few hundred megawatts, but that doesn't have to come from mills with a tip height of 180 or 200 meters. Mrs Van Tongeren probably also saw the photos taken from the high-rise apartment building in Stadskanaal. It's really surreal what that area's gonna look like. You can also think of sundials. There are examples in Germany where 2 m solar panels can generate the same power. Moreover, the environment affected by mills is of course many times larger than such a solar park an sich.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u14	In this whole plan there are 1,100 mills still to be built in the Netherlands. For every big mill you should put twelve football fields full of solar panels. I already know that moment that you are going to present twenty times twelve large football fields to solar panels in Drenthe, there are also problems of acceptance among the population. If you choose to take climate change seriously because you want no flooding, no loss of farmland and no death in the elderly from heat stress, then something must happen. So what's the SP? Those football fields are gonna raise just as much resistance. You know that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u15	I do not know Mrs Van Tongeren's football history, but of course a football field can be seen in itself. I advise her to look through Solar Park Veenkoloniën again and see how the real area is going to be two square kilometres of solar panels, related to the enormous reach of the mills, including the areas in which you should not have built because of the nuisance you have from those mills. I'm talking about an energy mix. I want to get 17 million people excited for an energy transition. This way it doesn't go well in the north of the country. That's my concern, and so is that of the SP. We are not against windmills, but we would like 100% enthusiasm to realize the energy transition as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u16	A communication to the public gallery: there should be no participation in the debate, even if emotions may increase.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u17	I heard the SP Group say some important things. The spokesman used words such as "portrait" and "energy mix." I totally agree with that. At the same time, of course, we have an agreement with all the provinces. The moment we tell one province that she has the freedom to fill it in with the energy mix she wants, I am sure that a whole number of other provinces will come to the Lower House and the Minister because they want it to be different. I think that's a luxury we can't afford. We're not gonna make it to the target. Imagine the province of Utrecht saying: we have a lot of roofs, we're going to fill our roofs with panels; let's forget about the few windmills. After all, Utrecht doesn't have that many windmills. Or imagine North Holland would do that, to call another province that has a much greater task. We don't have that luxury. We need solar panels, but we also need wind power. That's what the SP stands for, isn't it? We don't want to call the agreements into question right now, do we?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u18	As far as my group is concerned, too, but as I said to Mrs Van Tongeren, I am looking for a mix in which we get most of the population involved in what needs to be done. It's not nothing that needs to be done. Mrs Dik-Faber knows as well as I do that the search areas have not been maximum. Some areas have not been part of the EIA. Perhaps because of this we have let go of areas where in itself less nuisance could be for residents. As far as I am concerned, that would be another possibility. I asked the Minister to do the same. It's now limited to Drenthe, but you could extend it to the whole country. I note that wind on land, especially the parks with mills that are 180 meters at 200 meters altitude, is a huge burden. You see what it's gonna look like at Urk when you cross the Kettle Bridge. It's a huge tax. This is simply a major democratic deficit. The people are not known in it. It is claimed that there is support, but that is not the case. That is why I am asking these questions to the Minister. I am concerned about the north of the country in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u19	I am also concerned about this support. That is why we have included in the Environment Act an amendment which regulates that a participation plan should always be part of the process. That amendment was from Christian Union and CDA together. Let that be said. If we now opt for an alternative as presented by the SP Group, this means that all agreements with other provinces around wind on land are under threat. Other provinces have ammunition in control, although that is not quite a happy word. They have an experience in the hands of Drenthe after which they can say: yes, so could we in Drenthe; now it is our turn. Isn't that what the SP Group doesn't want? An alternative has been proposed by the province of Drenthe. That is based on the agreements on land wind, but that is just a good alternative. Why not?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u20	I think this is a very long interruption. We're looking forward to a long night, so I'm gonna ask everyone to briefly interrupt. Interruption is not an argument, it is a specific question. From now on, I'm gonna stick to everyone strictly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u21	My impression is that in this region it is still a bit worse than elsewhere. Maybe that's because of the many ribbon villages. It looks like an empty area, but of course it's not. Furthermore, I only hope that Mrs Dik's amendment will be by the First Chamber on time, so that it can then be used in the process. Hopefully that will lead to about the same results as I have advocated here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u22	We have two agreements; not only two interruptions, but also questions and no speeches. Mr De Vries of the PvdA will set a good example here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u23	He's always very short and pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u24	I'll try, Mr. Chairman. We've established the structure vision Wind by land. The SP Group supported it. 6,000 megawatts of wind on land by 2020, that's the deal. Mr Smaling said A. I don't hear him saying "B" and "C." I will mention all the objections he raises later in my speech, but I will draw different conclusions. I ask whether he will not take the next step; whether he will come back to the agreement on 6,000 megawatts of wind on land in 2020 or whether he will stick to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u25	I admit, quite frankly, that there may be some progressing insight, because we are now seeing what it means for those regions. If you see the animations of what these huge mills look like between all those ribbon villages, you'll still see how you can achieve that energy goal with a combination of savings, home insulation, solar energy and possibly windmills.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u26	So that's exactly what I suspected. This means that Mr Smaling is abandoning the agreement that we need to land to 6,000 megawatts by 2020 and that he wants to deploy other sources, which are also needed to be climate neutral by 2050, already. This means that he does not keep his end of the bargain and speaks easily towards residents, who are rightly worried and outraged, as he will hear from me later. He doesn't keep his end of the bargain, that's my observation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u27	We agreed to the 6,000 megawatts, that's right. If you see where and how it should be realized, there is talk in this region that part of the 6,000 is very pinching and sanding. That is why I am talking in this way about the bottlenecks that we find in the northern Netherlands. My wish is that we realize those megawatts, but in a different way and with the residents, so that 17 million people can enter the energy transition in a cheerful way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u28	Mr. Chairman. D66 considers renewable energy to be of great importance, for more jobs and innovation, less dependence on Putin and Saudi Arabia, but of course especially for a much better climate. The Netherlands is very behind in this. While the Scandinavian countries are already producing 25% to 50% of renewable energy, our country is really at the bottom of the list, with less than 5%. Beautiful infographics went over Twitter, where the Netherlands really ranks 27 out of 28 Member States. That's not something to be proud of. Moreover, the climate issue of Urgenda shows that CO emissions have to go down much faster than we had anticipated. The energy agreement amounts to 17%, but its targets were 20%. The climate statement shows that the ambition should actually be even higher. And so we need to save energy and use it on the sun and the sea, but wind on land must also contribute. I thought Carla Dik-Faber of the Christian Union put it very well. We can't afford the luxury of saying about one of the technologies that we're doing a little less. My party is concerned about the process and progress of wind energy in the Netherlands, including the Drenthe Veenkoloniën. That's not going well right now. Residents feel that this is being pushed down their throats, a dictation from The Hague that is being imposed on them against will and thanks. And that while we're doing this for everyone, for the grandchildren of everyone in the Netherlands. The statements of a senior official of the Ministry have only reinforced this picture. It would have given the impression that the national coordination system, which regulates the installation of windmills, has come to push things through against the will of people. This is, of course, a very worrying suggestion. Can the Minister guarantee that the National Coordination Scheme has not been used for this purpose, will never be used for it in the future, and that participation and participation in projects under the National Coordination Scheme will always be fully covered? My party believes that the participation of local residents in major national projects should be better organised. In an earlier debate, therefore, I have already proposed the appointment of an external area coordinator, who can coordinate participation, support, disadvantage compensation, but also creative ideas. At the time, the Minister responded positively to our proposal to appoint this external area coordinator, who must therefore have the full confidence of the inhabitants in the area in particular. The Minister later indicated in a consultation that he thought it logical to appoint such an external area coordinator at least for the Veenkoloniën in Drenthe. I therefore ask the Minister here, in this debate, what progress has been made on this point. Did Drenthe get that external area coordinator, and if not, when will he get there? If we saw the urgency and necessity of it at the time, I assume that we now have someone in mind who has the confidence of, above all, the local population. In what way did the Minister take care of this? The key word here is, of course, "trust." If we want someone to help ensure that all interests are taken into account in a decision, the trust of the people there in the region in the person who has to do so is essential. Of course, an area coordinator can only really ensure a careful process if he also has some time to talk to the residents and make proposals for improvement. I ask the Minister to at least give some room for this. We support the objectives of the Energy Agreement and the objectives of land wind. Drenthe must also contribute. However, as the Minister has just said, the review of the Energy Agreement runs from 1 January to 31 December 2016, I can also imagine that the 2020 targets, specifically Drenthe, and finding a solution that takes the interests of residents into account as much as possible, can look at whether there is any room for manoeuvre. I'd like to close with that appeal to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u29	Mr. Chairman. World leaders call for action against climate change. That wasn't just the President of the United States. The pope was also heard in his encyclical Laudato sì. Pope Francis calls on us to work on sustainable social justice. I quote from the encyclical: "The reduction of greenhouse gases requires honesty, courage and responsibility, especially among those countries that are the most powerful and the biggest polluters." Last week, it was announced that power plants have blocked a record amount of coal this year. This week there is much to do about the climate case of Urgenda and the state's appeal. Is this the run-up that the Netherlands wants to take towards the UN Climate Conference in Paris, later this year? I hope not. The Christian Union is hopeful about the future, because we have a lot of opportunities to reduce polluting emissions, for example by taxing coal plants, by boosting energy savings much more, but also by achieving clean alternatives much faster. In the coming years, the number of energy cooperatives will have to grow significantly, with solar panels on the roofs of homes, public buildings and companies. There is also a need for much more wind energy. This requires, in order to remain in the words of the papal encyclical, honesty, courage and responsibility. A large majority of provincial leaders did not vote in favour of achieving the target of land wind energy by 2020. That is why I would like to hear from the Minister how hard the plans are actually. Are we going to achieve the objective of the energy agreement? I agree with GroenLinks' question about reserve locations. Don't tell me it's time to put that in the picture. Insufficient support is often referred to by drivers as a blockade for windmills on land. The Christian Union considers it essential to listen carefully to residents. We must involve them in time and also give them the opportunity to participate. For the summer recess, an amendment by me and Mrs Mulder of the CDA was adopted to the Environment Act requiring a participation plan. The Environment Act still has to go through the First Chamber, but I ask the Secretary of State how the Cabinet is already implementing the amendment. After all, it calls for the existing or new code of conduct to be guaranteed by law. I'd like to get a reaction to this. There's a lot of resistance in Drenthe, and I get that. These are mainly people who get windmills in their front and backyards, the so-called double-line layout. The province of Drenthe wants to contribute to 150 megawatt winds on land, but there must be support. The Minister is undoubtedly aware of the letter from the province of Drenthe in which she states that he chooses an alternative variant. I'd like a response to this. I understand the minister has been in the area on a working visit. What were his findings? I'm sure he's spoken to residents. How does he look at the situation in the area and the plans? The Christian Union attaches importance to wind energy. We have no choice but to carry out the agreements we have made with each other. However, our group also considers acceptance to be important. I think acceptance is more important than a top-down approach by the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u30	Mr. Chairman. The transition to a sustainable energy supply and an independent energy mix is very important for the Netherlands. This not only benefits the reduction of CO emissions. If we act smartly, it will also benefit employment and innovation. An important prerequisite for the CDA has always been that there should be support for the population. We need to shape this transition with each other. The SP has already said something about it, as have other parties to a greater or lesser extent. So that's what you do with your residents. That is why it is important that the inhabitants of Drenthe and of other places in the Netherlands not only have the burdens of the windmills next to their villages and houses, but also the lusts. In my group's view, this is still not enough. In order for the energy transition to succeed, acceptance remains of real importance, not only now but also in ten or twenty years' time. On behalf of the CDA, I have already tabled a motion on fair distribution of pleasures and burdens, but unfortunately it has not achieved a majority in this Chamber. Compensation for residents should be proportionate to the income of the owner, the CDA considers. According to the Code of Conduct for wind energy, which promoters do not even have to follow, the method of compensation or participation is completely free. This does not provide a sufficient legal basis for residents. For this reason, I would ask the Minister, together with Minister Schultz of I and M, to prepare, on the basis of Article 5,45 (5), a General Administrative Measure giving greater legal certainty on co-decision or participation compensation for residents and communities. Is the Minister prepared to do this? I am asking this on the basis of the amendment I tabled with the Christian Union earlier this year. In the view of the CDA Group, residents should be able to make alternative proposals. If the inhabitants want to invest heavily in solar panels, this is also a way of fulfilling the goals of renewable energy. The Minister for Economic Affairs said in one of the previous debates that solar panels are at the expense of agricultural land. Agricultural land must really be used as agricultural land. However, there are still so many roofs that are suitable for solar panels. We all really want to achieve the objective of the energy agreement in this Chamber. However, this must be done with a plan that does more justice to our citizens. A double-line set-up really does not help in Drenthe, as other colleagues have said. According to the Minister, which of the alternatives that residents have put forward are still possible? That's actually the same room D66's looking for. I hope that GroenLinks is also willing to look up that space.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u31	I just went to see the CDA's election program. It says that there must be 14% clean energy by 2020. Is the CDA still behind that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u32	The CDA has said that it is keen to achieve the objective, but there is also something to say about acceptance. This requires a fair distribution of desires and burdens. I am very sorry that GroenLinks has not supported any CDA motion on this issue. This would be a way of achieving that support. Yeah, I really think it's a missed opportunity for GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u33	It is not quite clear to me what the fair story is about that 14%. It's really a big deal: whether you do everything you can to achieve that goal..... from all accounts, it turns out that this is necessary..... or you say, as the SP Group honestly does, that you think it's less important that the clean energy target be achieved and that you think you can accept delay. You can do something about a single double-line set-up, but I asked a fundamental question: is the CDA behind that 14%? If so, it needs the plan for 6,000 megawatts of wind on land that are 1,100 mills throughout the Netherlands. Does the CDA group share this thesis, or does it say that 600 or 700 mills are enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u34	The CDA still supports the objective, but the question is how to achieve it. You can put a lot of solar panels on rooftops. In this way, you can also achieve parts of the objective. We are concerned with achieving the objective. Mrs. Van Tongeren only chooses the cure. I'm sorry about that. We would like to do it with support.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u35	We are not going to get that 14% with the 6,000 megawatt wind on land; for that we need a lot of other things. It is a total package, in which the 6,000 megawatt wind on land has its share. The SP Group has actually said this evening that it will let go of this. I heard the CDA group say that it has a condition, namely participation. Did I hear that right? Is participation a prerequisite for achieving the 6,000 megawatts, or does the CDA group release the realization of the 6,000 megawatts tonight?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u36	That participation is a prerequisite for the CDA, my group has made it very clear when dealing with the Environment Act. At that time, together with the group of the Christian Union, we made that condition. We hope that the cabinet will be prepared to implement this quickly. This will also help the area mediator, whom we have wholeheartedly supported. However, we want to see it now being done, because we do not see enough of that. If GroenLinks and other parties like it all and say "get over all those people," they will not find us on their side. I really think that is a missed opportunity, because the energy transition is necessary for the long term. In addition, we should not go over people.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u37	The energy transition is indeed badly needed for the long term. Unfortunately there are also windmills that you can see. Moreover, my group has wholeheartedly supported the CDA amendment on participation. Getting people with is important, but clarity is also important. I like to get it, and that's why I ask one more question: does the CDA group hold on to 6,000 megawatts of wind on land, or does she release it tonight just like the SP?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u38	We still hope that the 6,000 megawatt wind on land can be realised in a good way. If that is not possible, then the Minister will really come back to the Chamber with it, then we will have to discuss it again and we will have to consider how to achieve the objective in an alternative way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u39	I see Mrs Van Tongeren at the interrupting microphone, but we agreed on two interruptions per spokesperson.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u40	This is a personal fact. It was said that GroenLinks waltzes over everything, likes it all and places everything everywhere. The first motion on both citizen participation and financial participation was also tabled on behalf of GroenLinks. This is therefore a totally unjustified representation of the position of GroenLinks. We do think that if you meet with provinces, you should be behind that. The CDA tries to eat off both sides and says: we stick to the goal, but we're not really going to keep people to the deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u41	This is not a personal fact, but it's all in the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u42	I do object to this, because the way in which GroenLinks expresses this really does not reflect the position of the CDA. Mrs Van Tongeren of GroenLinks herself knows that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u43	I note the same thing I had to observe with regard to the SP: it's both sides of the hall. It's an appointment that you're gonna put 6,000 megawatts of wind on land. That's what you're gonna make a hard deal about. But at the moment you're making that deal and there's resistance, you're going to go back and you're going to find solutions that you're going to need very much to eventually get the total volume of energy-efficient generation. So Mrs. Mulder is just saying tonight that she's stepping off the 6,000 megawatts? I believe that Mrs Van Veldhoven has seen this very well. I find it really disappointing that the CDA also does not keep to its commitments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u44	I really leave that conclusion on Mr De Vries' behalf. Well, at least I'm not gonna be pulling those tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u45	Mr. Chairman. With the exception of the PVV, all parties agreed to the land-based wind structure vision in 2013. We support the fact that the Minister is taking an active part in the implementation of the government and energy agreement. In fact, we expect him to be supported in achieving the targets of all the parties who voted in favour of the structural vision, and that they dare to say not only A, but also B and C. We have noted that, unfortunately, this is not the case for all parties. Can the Minister indicate how certain he is that we are actually going to reach the agreed target in time? The Bosch & Van Rijn report already stated that a large percentage of the selected sites will lose weight for a variety of reasons. There's something in the pipeline but just a little bit more than the target requires. There's hardly any change. Isn't that too much of a risk? Is it not necessary to ask the provinces already to designate reserve sites and to take them into proceedings? Tonight we will focus on the way in which the mission is to be carried out. We are critical of that. Our criticism focuses mainly on two points. Residents of the search areas identified in the structural vision are not involved in the process from the start and the desires and burdens are not distributed fairly. We assume that the new Energy and Environment Board will work as envisaged in the new Environmental Act. In other words, to involve and influence all stakeholders, including in particular residents, from the start of planning. Can the Minister confirm that? The Groningen plan area wind park N33 has a long history. We have argued in favour of examining the so-called sixth variant, because it will result in considerably fewer objects falling within the obstacle circles. However, the resistance in Meeden against this variant is large. The Labour Party has respect for the enormous commitment of its residents, but not for threats by some with resistance, disruption and even violence. Needless to say, oil has been thrown into the fire by an official's ruling. We assume that the Minister will refrain from doing so. The province of Groningen will come forward on 8 September with proposals for smarter optimisation variants where the number of people in nuisance zones can still be significantly reduced. The Labour Party would like the Minister's commitment to give maximum room for these proposals. The Labour Party believes that the biggest problems lie in the plans for the peat colonies. The false start of the approach is also the most palpable here. Much too great expectations have been raised by the initiators and attention has only been paid to the interests of the residents at a much too late stage. We cannot explain that people get windmills on both sides of their building tape. This is particularly true of the line at Drouwenermond. We ask the Minister whether he can and will explain this. What does he think of the potentially negative impact on the so-called LOFAR area where an extremely innovative development has been initiated and may be disturbed by the windmills? Residents see alternatives in the placement of sunbathing meadows. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Zij hebben daar creatieve ideeën over en inmiddels ook heel wat kennis vergaard.]] Can the Minister explain why solar panels cannot now be a real alternative? Is the Minister prepared to speak with the residents again? We ask the Minister to use the current procedure of view to find alternatives to the Drouwenermond line together with the province of Drenthe. Once again, both in the abdomen and in the back, we find a mill inexplicable, and we find damage to the LOFAR initiative very undesirable. Will the Minister promise that he will do everything in his power to respond to these concerns?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u46	Now my clog breaks. Of course, I don't think I can explain that double-line setup either. Let us do everything we can to prevent this. The Group of the Party of European Socialists is now calling for wind energy to be replaced by solar panels on meadows. At least that is the question that the PvdA Group has put to the Minister. Isn't that what you and I agreed to?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u47	I'm asking because residents don't get it. I welcome the fact that residents will hear from the Minister tonight why the plans for sunbathing, in which they have invested a great deal of time and gained a great deal of knowledge, could not be an alternative. I think the residents have a right to that. They have invested a great deal of time in this. I believe that dialogue should be conducted in this type of process. I want to hold on to the volume of wind on land myself. I have made that clear once again. I do think people have a right to an honest answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u48	Where exactly is the Labour Party's group? Are we going to stick to the wind on land objective and are we going to achieve the agreed target by 2020? Or are we going to go down a road, a question to the Minister, no matter how understandable, mucking about with that objective? I want a very clear yes or no.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u49	The answer is that we hold on to that 6,000 megawatt wind on land.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u50	I've got a little bit of the same broken nugget as Mrs. Fat. I can't combine things. On the one hand, the Labour Party, through Mr De Vries de SP, accuses us of releasing the 6,000 megawatts. He starts his story by saying that his group holds on to the 6,000 megawatts. Then he more or less copies my story, to my great joy, he mentions the option of sunbathing and finds acceptance essential. So where does it lead in the eyes of Mr De Vries? Doesn't he want to get rid of the plans in the three parks as they are? Or do you have to spawn people a little bit and then still do what's ahead?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u51	The Labour Party thinks we should stick to that 6,000 megawatts on land. We must also stick to the Veenkoloniën as a place where wind can be realized on land. We have serious doubts about the double-line arrangement. That is six mills, so we cannot imagine that you cannot come to an alternative position within that area, so that you can prevent people from getting a windmill in the abdomen and in the back. The residents have put a lot of energy into alternatives. We don't think it's the alternative, but the residents think it is. We believe that the Minister should explain once again why he also thinks that it is not an alternative. That's what the residents have been told so far by the Ministry.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u52	If Mr De Vries looks at the photo taken in that apartment building in Stadskanaal, when he sees all these set-ups, from Gasselternijveen to almost Nieuw-Weerdinge..all those ribbon villages and what awaits us in Meeden, does he really see an alternative that is fundamentally different from what is ahead now? Or is it a bit of a cosmetic change in the plans that lie ahead?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u53	The Labour Party only takes a stand against the double-line arrangement. Especially for the line at Drouwenermond, we believe that an alternative must be found. We hope that the Minister will find a solution to this problem in the procedure under way with the province of Drenthe. That is what we really need, because that is where things really go wrong. As far as the rest is concerned, we live in a very full country. There must always be infrastructure in that whole country. Rich roads need to be built. Airports are being built. Dykes are raised. All that is needed in a full country. It's always touching people. Of course, we need a lot of compassion for those people. We must give them a say, but we cannot promise them that they will not be hindered by this kind of great task.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u54	I am truly amazed at this report by the Labour Party. Does Mr De Vries actually ask the Minister: "I can't get it explained myself there, but will you do it for me? Because I agree with you 100%, Minister."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u55	I get it quite well myself, but in a debate like this, for which there will be a lot of interest among the people at home in the Veenkoloniën and in Meeden, where people are also very much oriented towards sunbathing, it is good that they hear from the Minister what the objections are now. I am prepared to explain that myself, but I am pleased that the Minister is doing so. That is why I asked this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u56	Does Mr De Vries of the PvdA Group not create incredible fog for the inhabitants of Drouwenermond and the Veenkoloniën by standing up in this debate? He's actually just letting the Minister get the hot coal out of the fire.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u57	No, I'm being crystal clear. I have made it clear that we are sticking to wind energy in the Veenkoloniën, that we find it unacceptable that there are situations in which people get a mill in the abdomen and in the back and that we hope that the Minister will find solutions to this in the ongoing process, whether or not together with the province of Drenthe.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u58	Perhaps it would be a good idea for Mr De Vries to clarify things here. His political leader Diederik Samsom and his fellow spokesperson Jan Vos are much more ambitious with wind. Diederik Samsom says: we will be world champion wind energy. Of course, you can't save that by not doing all kinds of things. Then you have to put down a lot more mills in a lot of places. I hear Mr De Vries making a small retreating move. Is the Labour Party still going for the World Championship, or is it allowed to do less?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u59	I think that together with GroenLink's world champion wind energy we want to stay, but not at any price. Once you have a mission, you have to be careful. In the Environment Act, we have set out all kinds of agreements, so that initiators have to get agreement with residents in advance. That absolutely didn't happen here. Something's wrong here. Here people get something pushed down the throat that just doesn't fit. We think so, but we don't care about the 6,000 megawatts. The Minister is extremely intensive about this dossier. We have a great deal of confidence in this and we also appreciate how he is committed to it. We are only asking him to find a solution for those six mills, because that is what this is about. For the rest, we are really sticking to the task and I do not know if you will get a cup for the title champion wind energy, but we do want to stay that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u60	You're not gonna be a world champion with a goal. That's the only way you're gonna get there is if you're gonna bet a lot more. In my opinion, that was the story of both Mr Samsom and Mr Vos, but then the mills that you are taking away will end up somewhere else. Mr De Vries talks about alternative locations, but it is not just a few mills. It's not about alternative locations for the Labour Party, it's about extra locations. Not one location, but five or six times more locations. Those are all places where windmills come in. If you become world champion wind energy, as the Labour Party wants it to be, then so be it. Then you have to say: that means that there are going to be six times as many windmills in all of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u61	We now have a 6,000 to 2020 target. When the structural vision was established, including the VVD, it was very clear that there could be another tranche. Even agreements have been made to identify search areas at that time. For example, the Afsluitdijk was then mentioned as a possible future follow-up location. That's what the VVD agreed to. I think the VVD has even agreed to the motion on the closing dive as the next step. So Mr Bosman is a little less champion than we are, but the VVD will follow.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u62	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u63	Mrs. Van Tongeren, you are really through your interruptions. I said that last time and it still applies, so next round, new opportunities. Mr De Vries continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u64	Mr. Chairman. I still have a little bit of text. The acceptance level has also been affected by a completely uneven distribution of lusts and burdens, starting with the idea that we should leave our energy production to the market with substantial subsidies. The government could have done that on its own. We could have promoted the participation of residents and the common man. What the Labour Party really stabs is the huge land price that a farmer captures for a windmill on his land. Already with two or three of these windmills, the tractor of that farmer can remain permanently in the barn. We think that is very wrong and we want the Minister to do something about it. Is he willing to do that? Does the Minister also want to do everything possible to balance the distribution of pleasures and burdens on the current routes? As far as we are concerned, this goes beyond what is laid down in the code of conduct, a code of conduct adopted without the residents' organisation NLVOW.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u65	Glad to hear that the PvdA still thinks that the distribution between lusts and burdens should be fairer. You can arrange that distribution in the SDE+. I tabled a motion on this earlier, but it was not supported by the PvdA at the time. If I re-table that motion tonight, will it receive support from the PvdA Group?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u66	We would like to consider tightening up the code of conduct, which will make the burden and appetites more shared. We really felt it was a pity that the NLVOW did not sign it. We think it is worth taking another risk to include residents' representatives in this process. Is the CDA prepared to do something about the idiotic land prices for farmers? I have been told that the subsidy per mill is €16,000 three times. That's half a ton. If you have three mills on your yard, you get €150,000 per year. Then the tractor can really get into the barn. If we can spend that money on all kinds of services for people or on lowering the rates, then the PvdA is immediately on its side.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u67	Re-questions do not need to be answered. I am happy to give the floor to Mrs Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u68	For the follow-up question, of course. We have very consciously asked the Minister to redesign the distribution within the SDE+. The minister didn't want that, even GroenLinks didn't want that. If this evening the PvdA Group indicates that it will, perhaps we should look together to see if we can still table that motion and try to get a majority in this House to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u69	We just have to wait and see the Minister's answer. Maybe he also finds the sums paid to the farmers somewhat distorted. That's what I'm curious about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u70	Mr. Chairman. The plenary agenda is full. Fortunately, we, energy spokesmen, are able to solve this well. We have put together a number of debates. This evening, we are discussing two issues, grouped together into one debate. I would like to thank Mr Smaling and Mr Van Tongeren for that. It is exactly two years ago this week that more than 40 organisations, including government, employers, trade unions, nature and environmental organisations, other civil society organisations and financial institutions, are committed to the energy agreement for sustainable growth. The VVD is not in favour of that. That may be known by now. But a large majority of the Chamber has the responsibility to shape energy policy for these organisations. Energy policy has behaved like the Dutch weather for many years: variable and almost unpredictable. Now, with the energy agreement, there are clear agreements that have been signed by a broad field. This is supposed to get you some rest. Debates like this don't help, especially if you ask me. They do not contribute to a stable investment climate; an investment climate which, in turn, should help us to achieve targets in the energy agreement. Many parties in this Chamber have opted for a sustainable policy, most of which are even more sustainable than the Energy Agreement. That takes windmills. But as soon as there is a bit of a headwind coming from the region, the same Chamber that is so keen on sustainability asks for a debate on this right away. The provinces have committed themselves to their wind energy targets. The national government has given the provinces the responsibility and freedom to search for suitable areas. It is the clean task of the provinces to create support for this. In addition, one is not about one night ice cream. They're working hard on that in the provinces. Only we want to keep burning and cooking. The light in this room must remain on. The iPhones that are quickly empty because of all the phone calls and tweets of the colleagues are charged as we speak in the benches. As a politician, I think it is my job to ensure that every Dutchman can count on energy delivered through a stable network and affordable. As far as the VVD is concerned, the majority of the Chamber has entered into an agreement and we must now comply with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u71	Mr Bosman could not have ended his speech better as an introduction to my question. Deal's a deal. He's giving up on the agreements in the energy agreement. Again and again, with every report that comes out, we see that the measures underneath are not enough. Now the energy agreement is going to be evaluated next year. Does this also apply to the VVD "agreement is agreement": the agreements contained in the energy agreement, which we are going to achieve as a whole and we are going to take all the additional measures necessary for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u72	Appointments are important. Objectives are important and we need to work towards them. We all know that we sometimes have to think very carefully about what exactly is the essence of what we want to achieve in the surroundings. We now see that with the energy agreement, however crazy it may sound, we have emitted more CO at the beginning of the year. That is quite special and that is not really the intention. We have goals, and we will continue along with them. We all think it's important. However, you have to look very closely at what the objectives ultimately achieve. This also means that we need to look very closely at the results with this evaluation. However, the climate cannot be regulated in a year, not even five years, nor in ten years. Those are things you need to think carefully about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u73	It all started out very clearly, but then I heard a lot of buts. Mr Bosman now says: we have agreements, but you can fill them out in different ways. In this way, he actually agrees with Mr Smaling, who says that it may be wind energy, but also solar energy. We have made a number of very clear agreements and the climate is not regulated in a year, but it is deteriorating from year to year. The objectives of the Energy Agreement relate to energy saving, the share of renewable energy and the reduction of CO emissions. Does the VVD stand for achieving those objectives, even after 2016, and will we see measures that will ensure that we achieve them, with the support of the VVD? These measures are not yet in place.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u74	First of all, of course, I await the evaluation. I think that's essential. Then it is also important to see what arrangements and measures we need to achieve this. Of course, we must achieve these objectives.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u75	Thank you very much, Mr Bosman. However, I see that Mr Smaling has another question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u76	I had an interruption left. I find it interesting to hear from Mr Bosman. He wants to keep his end of the bargain. Of course, that suits him. Does his approach have the flexibility to show, as a moving insight, that you can get more profit from solar energy, for example, and that wind energy encounters quite insurmountable problems, as we now see in Drenthe, to allow exchangeability?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u77	No, we have the energy agreement. Again, we gave it away. A large number of parties have signed it. It's essential that you let that house of cards, that it's normal, stand up. Otherwise, there is no point in making or having such agreements. Then you have to ask yourself what the deal is worth. I do agree that we need to think carefully about how to achieve innovation and how to ensure that new and smarter designs can also be used. I agree with Mr Smaling.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u78	A house of cards has the characteristic that it usually collapses. I mean to say that the energy agreement consists of a lot of different things. Mr Bosman undoubtedly agrees with me that over the years we will be constantly treated on a progressive basis, both in a positive and negative sense. Does he not agree with me that we really need to update that energy agreement very regularly, especially in thinking, and that this can also lead to the failure to do things that seem to raise a lot of objections and the raising of issues that can suddenly bring a lot more acceleration than we might realize now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u79	We've been going on for two years, just two years. That's nothing when you're talking about climate goals. Two years is nothing. I want to prevent us now from introducing all kinds of new things and other agreements, creating uncertainty again. The beauty of this agreement was that people could say: I'm going to invest, I'm going to put money into this because this is just going to happen. The moment we start pulling all kinds of things out, investors also say: yes, but wait a minute, this is getting really insecure and I'm not going to do this. So you're undermining the objective. By introducing uncertainty, you're only making it worse. That security helps, because people dare to invest because that security is there. Again, we've just been going on for two years. If we change all kinds of things every year, every two years, every three years or every six months, everyone says: I'll wait and I'll see when there's a decision. That's different every six months, and that's what I'm gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u80	Thank you very much. I understand from the Minister that he is willing to answer directly. I will allow two more interruptions in this period. So everyone starts with a clean slate again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u81	Mr. Chairman. We are talking tonight about wind energy on land and we are talking about the plans we have made for placing windmills on land to contribute to the construction of a new capacity for the production of electricity. We now have a production capacity based on conventional energy carriers. We want to replace it with a new production capacity that enables us to produce electric energy in a sustainable way. We have set ourselves a very ambitious objective. This objective is set out in the coalition agreement. It is a follow-up to objectives that were in virtually all the electoral programmes of the political parties. The objective of the coalition agreement is a very reasonable and average reflection of this. This objective is also set out in the Energy Agreement. It also applies to our neighbouring countries. There is also a lot of work on the construction of windmills on land and at sea. The objective has now also been outlined by the government of China and by President Obama of the United States. This objective will also be discussed in Paris and a judge has recently made a ruling on it. Everyone is convinced that the transition from fossil energy to renewable energy is necessary. You then have to organise and realize that transition. It starts with everyone saying it has to be done. You will then make concrete agreements on this matter. That is what happened in the coalition agreement and in the energy agreement. After that, these agreements will also have to be implemented. You have to do that according to the laws and the rules you've laid down for that. That is why we have said that we will first have the provinces designated where these windmills could land. The provinces have proposed locations for this purpose. We've captured that in a vision. In it, we record wind energy on land at national level. That is the view we have dealt with in the Chamber. That vision was then established. Then I am going to put that into practice on the basis of what the provinces first provided and what the House of Representatives subsequently established. This means that we will then give people who come up with initiatives to create wind farms within the space we have established, the opportunity to apply for permits. If there are such applications, they must then be dealt with in accordance with the laws and regulations in force. That's what we're doing, and that's what we're talking about tonight. There is talk of support. I think that acceptance is very important. I also consider the achievement of the objectives to be particularly important. Of course, there's a tension between those two things. We don't have to get out of the way. I am confronted every day with this tension between objective and acceptance. It is the art to ensure that you achieve the goals and that you have as much support for them as possible. Of course, that support is easier to achieve with people who are less involved. This already applies to windmills at sea. For people living by the sea, you talk about windmills that are 18 kilometres away or further away. Otherwise, it is natural for people who live in Drenthe, Groningen, Friesland or another province and who realize windmills at a distance that is no longer measured in kilometres, but in hundreds of meters. Of course, there is a completely different situation for the people involved in this way. Some can easily talk about it, because they are less involved. Others are very heavily involved. They therefore come to the conclusion of other considerations. With people like that, it's very difficult to find support. Still, we have to try. We must do this first of all by making it clear that this objective is very important. They're in everyone's best interest. Secondly, we must make it clear that the locations where these windmills are located have been designated by the provinces themselves and given to the Empire. The Empire then incorporated this into a national vision established by the People's Assembly. On this basis, according to democratically established laws and rules, initiators can come forward with applications. They are then assessed in a proper manner. When assessing these applications, we do not come to a decision in one go. At some point, we'll make a decision. This is made available to the public and then people can come up with views. They then consider whether the decision can be maintained or changed. Then the final integration plan, as we call it, will be established. The people who have come up with a view and believe that the integration plan is not sufficient for them then still have the opportunity to go to the Council of State. The Council of State will therefore consider this. That is the way in which we work towards acceptance in our democratic country. We have said at the same time that, according to a code of conduct, those who come up with initiatives to realize windmills must ensure that the people in the immediate vicinity of those windmills benefit from it. This has been agreed between the organisations of the initiators and the nature and environmental organisations. This is now being applied by us as a Empire when we implement the state coordination scheme for the major projects, and also by the provinces, for the smaller projects for which they want to achieve a good result. In this way, with careful procedures, important objectives and the application of a code of conduct, we are working on support, and not least. The views are carefully assessed and the Council of State also works carefully in assessing professions that people may submit to the Council of State after their views. Mr De Vries pointed out that he did not find any part of the Drenthe plan acceptable. It's part of the plan that's now in process. That's where opinions come in. They will deal, among other things, with the aspect which Mr De Vries has specifically mentioned. I will then have to assess those views and draw my conclusions. Mr De Vries, you feel very involved, no doubt because you have often visited the region there. Others have been there, too. I've been there, of course, just like my associates. We know what it is about and we will also thoroughly assess those views and then try to draw a responsible conclusion from them. I am not going to anticipate this, I will wait for the views and then I will come to a decision. It can, as I said, be recreated by the Council of State. This in a general sense. I would also like to say something in general about ongoing projects relating to land wind. The agreement has been made that by 2020 6,000 megawatts of wind must have been realized on land. One of the spokesmen, I believe Mrs Van Tongeren, said: in a third of the cases nothing has happened yet. That's a misunderstanding. I will go into it in a moment. The 6,000 megawatts on land in 2020 is a joint task. This is not only a task for me, for the Empire, but also for the provinces and the municipalities, for all those parties participating in the energy agreement. They have all said that it is important that the 6,000 megawatts should be realized by 2020. We have a responsibility together to do that. I think that everyone is becoming increasingly aware of the importance of this transition to renewable energy, how important it is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, how important it is to make the climate situation in the world manageable. I would not like to say the words 'keep controllable' at the moment. I'm on the 6,000 megawatts. We agreed that the National Coordination Scheme should apply to projects larger than 100 megawatts. I'm taking the lead in these projects. The provinces take the lead in smaller projects. I will look more specifically at the projects in Groningen and Drenthe. The spokesmen have done the same. More generally, I can say that it has to be done now. This applies to some of these projects, in particular those involving the provinces. This year the procedure must really start. If this procedure does not start in good time, I do not think the provinces will honour their agreement. That is a worrying situation, and I will have to respond to it. An opportunity to do so is by applying the National Coordination Scheme to these projects as well. It has to be done. The objectives are important. That 6,000 megawatts needs to be realized. I will use every opportunity to achieve these objectives in a responsible way. It is perhaps good to give the state of play of the projects in Drenthe and Groningen, in particular the projects in which the Empire is taking the lead because of the application of the National Coordination Scheme. The projects in Drenthe are so far that in November the EIA, the design permits and the design integration plan can be made available for inspection. We are working on this at the moment. A lot of work has been done. We're in the process of rounding up. I hope that the whole thing will be available in November. It'll be available for inspection for six weeks. I'm guessing that's when the views come. I would then like to take a decision on this in the second quarter of 2016, after I have worked very carefully on these views. I will take the decision in the second quarter of 2016. I am now saying 'I', but I am also talking about the Minister for Infrastructure and the Environment. We both have a responsibility in that procedure. Once the decision has been taken, the Council of State may consider objections from people who have submitted an opinion and who are not satisfied with it. That is the state of play of the project in Drenthe. If I can do it this way, it should be possible to have those windmills run there by 2020. In Groningen, we're still a little behind. There is no preferred alternative known yet. Drenthe is working with the preferred alternative that has now been established. In Groningen, that has yet to happen. I've asked the county board to come up with that. I hope this happens soon. I intend to present the EIA and the draft integration plan for inspection this year. That will be in the month of December. It is expected that there will be views on this. Then, in the second quarter of 2016, I will take a decision on the final integration plan. If anything else is submitted to the Council of State, it can look into it and come to a decision. That is the state of play of the procedures in Groningen and Drenthe.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u82	The official who's been to Meeden said that the support research is a ritual dance. Is collecting the views and responding to them also a ritual dance?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u83	My associates have been there. They have spoken with representatives of the action groups. That is necessary. We do that all the time. We are working in all ways to contribute to support. This includes conversations with the biggest opponents. I do not think it is right for such a conversation to be recorded without the other person being informed. Even worse, I think it is said that such a state coordination scheme is intended to push through something. That arrangement is not meant to push anything through. The aim of this scheme is to bring together and streamline the procedures that apply to projects that we have said together, in such a way that we can make decisions in a responsible way. "A responsible way" means that the opportunities for participation remain in full swing and that they are taken seriously. On the basis of these opportunities for participation, plans are being changed. That's a possibility. There's no mention of pushing down the throat. Any statements made in that sense are completely wrong. I'm gonna distance myself from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u84	Could this also lead us to the situation that, after the assessment of the view, there will be a whole alternative energy plan for those two regions, consisting of a mix of wind, sun, residential insulation and other things that achieve the same result? Is that a possibility or does the Minister exclude it because the three wind farms with so much megawatt are so in his system?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u85	I'm not messing with those projects. I already told you how it went. First there were the election programmes and then there was a government agreement. Then provinces point to where the windmills we are talking about should be. This is reflected in a plan established by the House of Representatives. Initiators come within this plan with their initiatives and then the procedures are applied to them. That way you come to orderly decision-making. My intention is to realize those windmills there. This is necessary because the objectives are of the utmost importance. We are not going to go to the Council of State for the bullshit procedure and it is not going to go to the Council of State for the bullshit. It is being listened to, it is being considered and a position has to be taken. I cannot say anything about the outcome in advance, but I do not intend to raise expectations among the people in the area. These are serious plans that are well prepared, which I fully defend and which I want to bring to a successful conclusion. However, I would also like to do justice to the procedure and the views of the people and to study them in order to reach responsible conclusions on the point of view. I also understand that the work I do may then be done again by the Council of State, but I am not going to suggest that this or that will come out. No, I want to do it in an orderly manner like I just tried to describe it. In doing so, I have made the general comments on the objectives for land wind in the country as a whole. I also discussed the procedure in Drenthe and Groningen. I now turn specifically to the points raised by the spokesmen. Mrs Van Tongeren was the spokesperson who said that a third of the objectives have not yet been settled. Fortunately, that's a misunderstanding, I can tell her. 47% of the 6,000 megawatts have already been realized. It's already rolling. This is the additional 53% that still has to be achieved. Of these, two thirds are completely orderly in procedure. That will also be possible to the desired conclusion. For a third part, there is still the pre-stage. That's a total of 1,000 megawatts of the 6,000 megawatts. In particular, the provinces are in the preliminary phase. Once this results in the formalisation of the plans this year, it can all be completed, developed and realised just before the year 2020 that the windmills will run in that year. That's gonna have to happen this year. We will continue to discuss this with the provinces. At the end of this year, we will look at the situation and whether there is a reason to do something else. The measures necessary to achieve that 6,000 megawatts, I will take. Mrs Van Tongeren asked whether I am also afraid that things are going too slowly. She says that a large part of the provincial directors do not like these agreements and she asks if the agreements made with them are solid. Those people are there on the basis of election programmes. Whether it is GroenLinks, the SP, D66, the PvdA, the CDA or the VVD, they have all recognised the importance of the transition to renewable energy. That's what I'm implementing and implementing right now. If you still make abstract goals and plans at a great distance, you have a lot of support for that. As you get more into a funnel and have to realize it in a certain place, very concretely, you also call for resistance in that area. It will also have to be handled properly to ensure that those important abstract objectives that you have made are also achieved in reality. It is important that we also have the motivation and strength we had at the beginning at the end, and that we make a careful decision according to the rules we have established, which are careful rules. This applies not only to me, but also to the directors of provinces and municipalities. We all bear that responsibility. I will appeal to others as well. I also think I have the right to do that. Mrs Van Tongeren also spoke about the super-statutory demands that provinces would like to make. She asked if that would stand in the way of realization. A provincial government has an equally important role to play as the national or municipal government. Those provinces have a responsibility in terms of energy, but also for the rural area and for the landscape. When they are concerned with energy, they cannot forget the landscape and rural areas. It is their responsibility to properly link the different areas of interest for which they are responsible and to make the right decisions on the concrete projects that exist. I think the provinces are doing it the right way. I support them in this, too, but I would like this year to see the last 1,000 megawatts put in place by the provinces in order to achieve this in good time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u86	A clear answer from the Minister. It turns out it's only a third of the unrealized part. I should have put it more carefully, the Minister is right. As an example of these three demands in North Holland: that the distance between building and windmills should be 600 metres, which is nowhere in the law, that six windmills should be placed in a straight line, and that someone who wants to set up a new windmill should buy and demolish two old ones. There are more or less cartels in North Holland. All owners of old mills have united and ask for the top price for it. This means that a project with local support such as NDSM, which I have already mentioned, cannot continue. How does the Minister feel about that? Does he think it is right that Noord-Holland should impose all these additional requirements? The citizens signed in Amsterdam-Noord so that there is support, but of course such a project cannot continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u87	I am aware of Mrs Van Tongeren's warm interest in the NDSM project, as she calls it. I think that interest is understandable too. I can see that the provincial directors are having as much trouble as we are. They must also ensure that they make good, careful decision-making on issues of this kind, sometimes affecting people's interests very directly. The province of Noord-Holland states that it must take account of the rural area and the landscape and realize energy ambitions. It combines this and chooses a path which it believes it can achieve the best possible and timely outcome in terms of substance. I would very much like them to make these considerations and choices, but for me it is also of the utmost importance that we arrive at something in good time. I will deal with them in particular. I'm okay with them involving all kinds of things, and I understand that, too. I believe that this can improve the quality of the result, but it is also necessary that this leads to a timely start of the procedure. But we'll see where this leads.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u88	Would the Minister be prepared, for example, to ask the ACM if this is not in the direction of a cartel agreement? After all, a requirement has been imposed on entrepreneurs who do not apply in other provinces, and they can only meet this requirement by buying windmills from this only association of old windmills. That is not about economical amounts either. We just heard some math examples, but what is being asked for local projects that want to set up new windmills is much higher. So is the Minister prepared to take a look at that? In my humble opinion, the government cannot really support the imposition of so much more stringent requirements on entrepreneurs in one province than in all other provinces.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u89	I think that the ACM itself is quite capable of fulfilling its responsibility for competition. But now there is the fact that Mrs Van Tongeren has drawn attention to this in a meeting of the House of Representatives. I will therefore consider, possibly after consultation with the North-Holland government, whether it is appropriate to put this as a point of interest in my contact with the ACM. So I'll look at this that way. Mrs Van Tongeren also spoke about noise. It believes that noise requirements should always be monitored and enforced. She found that someplace in a municipality was dusting equipment. I am convinced that Mrs Van Tongeren has brought this to the attention of the GroenLinks council member in that municipality and that she has advised them to do something about it. The control of noise is a task that we have laid down with the municipal administration. The city council must do the same. Whether it is mopeds or windmills, this needs to be checked. And those demands are there for a reason. I will bring this to the attention of the Association of Dutch Municipalities in response to Mrs Van Tongeren's comments. After all, we have these rules. Mrs Van Tongeren also asked me to draw up a list of places where there is broad support for windmills, but where construction is not yet off the ground. We agreed as follows. There are a number of considerations to be made by governments, in particular by the provincial government and by the national government. The provincial government oversees the territory. That is also to be seen for a province. This one sees all the possibilities and all the things that are going on, she knows what she has plans for space and therefore chooses for certain locations. I think that is the task of the provinces. I don't want to go through that by letting them come up with lists of other places. I think they have a responsibility to visualize all places, to make a choice from them and to make them. They did. I think there is no point in drawing up the list that Mrs Van Tongeren asked for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u90	I realise that this is my last question in this debate. We have often had an exchange of views with the Minister on whether we should not have a reserve location. There is no way in any project to bet on the success of 100% of what is being proposed; the Minister agrees with me. You can say that the provinces themselves have to keep back pockets somewhere. But because this government also attaches such importance to it, especially with the ruling of the judge in the back pocket, it is perhaps wise to consider what should be done if a project is not implemented in good time here or there. Let me rephrase my question: in 2019 we are too late; if it turns out that it is not being achieved, what is the plan B? So if this is not the way to do it with reserve locations, how does the government intend to do it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u91	I've been working with the provinces for a long time to fill in the 6,000 megawatts. That 6,000 megawatt is the translation from the coalition chord and is also incorporated in the energy agreement. By the year 2020, 6,000 megawatts of wind must be realized on land. That's the deal. The provinces have taken care of that. They have said that they will fill this out. We can do more than 100 megawatts through the National Coordination Scheme. They'll do less than 100 megawatts themselves. I think this is here now. It's my job to do this. You have heard here and on other occasions what has been unleashed in various provinces. I'm focused on getting that 6,000 megawatt. There's a deal about that. That is what ambitions have been formulated for. I agree with Mr Bosman that we anticipate a next round of windmills when we talk about reserve locations. However, I do not want to anticipate another round of windmills. I am now working on a task which I experience as a great task and which I want to bring to a successful conclusion. I do not want to complicate this by actually working on a new round through spare locations. I have, of course, listened carefully to Mr Smaling's contribution. He sees a huge democratic deficit. He noted that representatives of parties in The Hague had different views than representatives of parties in provinces and municipalities. I would not call this a democratic deficit. Governments have their own responsibility. Directors and representatives of the people in these governments also have their own responsibility. They make trade-offs from their own background. These considerations are different at provincial level than at national level. Other aspects play a role. I believe that the procedure we have organised is very democratic. We have election programs, a coalition agreement, provinces that do some good and the House of Representatives that lays it down in a plan. Then I apply the legal procedures to bring it to a successful conclusion. I think this is very democratic. What do I think about Wake Emmen being the biggest party? I don't like that. There are 350 or more municipalities in this country. In elections, the citizens themselves decide on the basis of which they vote. That's their right. It's not up to me to have opinions on that. I have already answered some of Mr Smaling's questions, for example the question of the state coordination system and the ruling made in Groningen in a consultation between an official and an action group. So I don't have to repeat that. Mr. Smaling also asked about Borger-Odoorn. The municipality has said that I am not competent to make a decision on the Drenthe windmill plan, because that would not be up to me. The municipality of Borger-Odoorn takes the view that the State coordination scheme is wrongly applied because there would be no single production facility of more than 100 megawatts. I don't agree. I believe that there is one production plant, consisting of several production units. This is, of course, the case with windmills. If I have a park built on the North Sea, there is one wind farm with several windmills. That is also the case in Drenthe. A windmill park consists of several windmills, but that is one installation. There is also a clear geographical, organisational and technical coherence, so as far as I am concerned, it is as I have just explained. That means that I have the authority to apply this state coordination scheme. That's exactly what I'm doing. Mr Smaling spoke about support. I've gone into that in detail. He asked if there was room for alternatives. If we are trying to implement an alternative to the wind farm in Drenthe, we need to put another plan back into procedure. Just look at what you technically need to go through the legal procedures between the very first act you make in such a procedure and the final decision that is being taken. You need a two-year period for that. Before you can start the first action, however, a lot of preliminary work needs to be done. That takes about one or two years; let me assume at least one year. That means you need three years to be able to use an alternative. Moreover, we must realise that the alternative is not everyone's fault either. Again, there are many views about this alternative, which will harden again. That alternative will then come to the Chamber and we will have similar discussions. If we let go of what we started and start something new, that means three years' delay. With this we would deliberately abandon the 6,000 megawatts target, as well as the 14% clean energy target by 2020. I'm not prepared to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u92	In the structure vision Wind on land, acceptance and participation are set as conditions. In this region there is almost no support and virtually no participation. What's the Minister gonna do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u93	We're talking about Drenthe right now. I have already said that the beginning of this process consists of the views of the political parties, who ultimately represent their people in the House of Representatives. In addition, the government agreement was negotiated and the cabinet in parliament received support for its programme. The province and the Empire also take responsibility. As a minister, I apply the rules that have been democratically established for this purpose. That is what we must do in order to gain support. It is understandable that the people who are most directly involved say: that is all beautiful, but I am now getting a windmill at so many hundred meters from home; I do not want that, I am against it. We must realise that it is possible that we may eventually not get the consent of those people and that they will submit an opinion, which we will then have to study carefully to see what conclusions we should draw from it. If the people do not agree with my conclusion, they can go to the Council of State. That is the process we are now going through. There is no alternative; we should not pretend that there is. I can say the following about participation. The code that has been agreed is applied in Drenthe. A regional coordinator has been appointed, together with the province of Drenthe, and I say this in response to a question by Mrs Van Veldhoven, who has already started work. This coordinator will have to consider, given the procedure under way and the code agreed, how best to obtain cooperation, understanding and support from the most concerned people. That is a difficult task, but it has to be done. We shall therefore do our best to do so. The area coordinator will do his best and I will support him in that. This is what needs to be done there. We can, of course, say at the end of a procedure that the windmills there should be replaced by solar panels, but for the reason I have just given, that is not realistic. Perhaps it is a good thing that, when replying to Mr De Vries' questions, I will go into the alternative of solar panels, regardless of the delay of three years, which I have just mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u94	I'm worried about you anyway. The Wind on land structural vision states that acceptance and participation are conditions, but those two elements are not present. I now also hear that an area coordinator for the Drenthe Veenkoloniën was intended, but he does not want to carry out this task at all because of the way in which the process has been carried out. As of 2010, letters have already been sent in which commitments have been made to the initiators while there has been no provincial environmental vision at all. Then I wonder what kind of trial this has been. So I can completely imagine that these people in the region are thinking: what is this; I do not want to be a part of this. That's why I'm so worried about this region. It flew all wrong. That is why my question to the Minister is to change it again. But what I hear now is a repetition of what his plans were already. I do not see an inch of flexibility to deal with the problems that are very clear in the region in the right way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u95	It didn't fly in the wrong way at all. It is both substantive and formal in the right way. It is now my job to ensure that I also complete the difficult last part of that flight route properly. I'm working on it. There's no way it didn't fly right. Mr Smaling spoke about the area coordinator. So he was appointed by Drenthe Province and me. This area coordinator has already started work.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u96	While we are talking about this area coordinator, I would like to ask a question about this. I am glad that the Minister says that he has been appointed and that he has started his work. Can the Minister indicate how it has been ensured that it is someone who also enjoys the full confidence of the people in the region? That was one of the reasons for thinking about this. The confidence of the people in the region in such a person is, of course, extremely important. It is good that the Minister and the Province have been involved in the appointment. How are the residents involved?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u97	At some point, you have to take responsibility for yourself. That must be done at a number of times in such a procedure. Then, on the basis of all the knowledge I now have in the area, together with the provincial government, which has much more specific and more detailed knowledge, I have to look at which person is best suited for this. That person will then have contact with the residents. In that connection, he will have to realize a workable situation with those residents. He must contribute to gaining support and ensure that what is agreed in the code becomes reality. That is what I can say about the choice for the person concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u98	I assume that the Minister agrees with me that it is very important to continue to monitor that person's confidence, because that will be the basis for the successful work of that area coordinator. Can the Minister indicate when this area coordinator has started working? I've been in touch with our people in the county. It has appeared that even for the deputy not everything is as clear as ever. So I would like to ask the Minister for clarification.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u99	I don't have the exact date and time in my head. Of course, there is also a limit to the details that I can be asked for. I have said twice what I can say about that. He's started work by now. But whether he started that last Monday or the week before, I don't know exactly. So I cannot go into that in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u100	I put my question at the risk of being a little premature, but it is very much in line with what the Minister has said so far about the care of the procedure. He's sketching that procedure. I can follow it all. What he's saying seems to me to be all very valid. On balance, however, it is only very late in the process that the resident actually gets his turn. A decision will be taken here first. Inventories are being made. The county's inventorying. Then all kinds of decisions have been made. That's what we call top-down. And then the burger gets to work. We've passed an Environment Act. It states that residents and stakeholders must be involved and be able to exercise influence from the outset. I understand that that is a turn of events towards the process as it used to be. But are new processes going to follow the procedure of the Environment Act? If we start new large energy projects in the Netherlands, are we going to involve the residents from the very beginning?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u101	I'd like to ask you shorter questions from the Chamber, because it's getting late. And if it's possible, I'd also like brief answers from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u102	The residents will of course be involved when it is prescribed in the procedure. That's the formal way you involve them. In November or December, when the case is brought before Drenthe and Groningen respectively, one can come up with views. But that is not, of course, the first time that people have had the opportunity to say what they think. You have been there, I tell you, Mr President, to Mr De Vries. All the other spokesmen are dead. I've been there, of course. My associates are dead. Local people have spoken to them. Provincial people have spoken to them. There's been a lot of consultation. That's how it's organized in our democracy. The intrusive way in which you have all put this forward is also proof that the contacts with the residents have been very intensive. They were very well listened to by you. I can assure you that I have listened very carefully to them myself. I believe that we are doing both formal and substantive justice to the task we have to involve people as much as possible. Mr de Vries said that you should also apply the Environment Act. Mr De Vries knows that this law has been adopted very recently. I'd already started this whole process. I did it the way I did it. Of course, the new legal rules adopted by the legislator will be applied as soon as that law is in force. I am already trying to anticipate where I have the opportunity to do so. Mr Smaling called on me to call this off, but I am not prepared to do so. Mrs Van Veldhoven has asked me about the area coordinator. That's what I've been working on. I also touched on the issue of noise. My staff have now informed me that the area coordinator started his preparatory work in June. Following this preparatory work, discussions with the residents will now also have to take place.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u103	I would like to thank the Minister very much, because that is about the time I was looking for. Can the Minister say a little more about the tasks and powers he has given to the regional coordinator in the definition?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u104	Oh, yeah. It is his responsibility, on the basis of the procedure that has been initiated, to try, on the basis of the current code of conduct, but certainly also on the basis of everything he sees in the conversations with the people, to set things in motion in such a way that what the code of conduct is intended to achieve is the good results in the area. He'll have to do whatever it takes. Mrs Van Veldhoven started by saying that it is nothing about renewable energy in the Netherlands. She said: look at the Scandinavian countries. Mrs Van Veldhoven also knows that in the Scandinavian countries, where there is a lot of rain and snow and where there are large differences in altitude, she is able to use the differences in altitude to generate electric energy. We don't have these big height differences. We have only a quarter of the wind in Ireland. We have much less sun than they have in southern Europe. Marriage is not the case that we have less than 5% of renewable energy. We now have almost 6%. Next year, in 2016, we will have more than 6%. With everything that is needed for this, we have taken a path together and put the perspective within reach to reach 14% by 2020 and 16% by the year 2023. For the year 2050 we have the objective of a CO-neutral society. We have established this with each other, and I intend to follow that path to the end. I hope I can still see 2050.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u105	Finally, Mrs Van Veldhoven.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u106	As I know very well that the Netherlands has fewer mountains than Norway, the Minister knows very well that the Netherlands therefore also has a lower target under European agreements than countries such as Sweden and Finland, so that everything is relatively heavy on the countries. I hope that the Minister is prepared to work out that path to 2050 he was just talking about quickly in front of the Chamber in concrete intermediate objectives. That is what we discussed in the previous debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u107	Concrete intermediate targets are already in place for 2020 and for 2023. We are already working in Europe by 2030, and we will play a role in this. I'm guessing there's gonna be more intermediate targets. I find intermediate goals useful in reaching the very ambitious end goal that you have. I think you need those intermediate goals to get the steps that need to be taken all the time. You need that pressure of intermediate targets, even as a driver. I have already referred to a number of comments made by Mrs Van Veldhoven on the RCR and its relationship with the inhabitants of the area. Mrs Van Veldhoven asked about the provision of space for the improvement proposals in the Drenthe plans. I've already gone into that. I hope that I have had the input of Mrs Van Veldhoven. Then I'll go see Mrs. Fat-Faber. It has indicated how it looks at it in broad terms. Once again, I can see that this is broadly in line with the way the cabinet looks at it, as we are now doing. It is important for us that we have the support of Mrs Dik-Faber and the Christian Union, because a broad consensus is also important for us. Mrs Dik-Faber has asked how hard the provincial plans are. I've already gone into detail there and the Environment Act. She asked me about my findings during my work visit to Drenthe. Of course, I've been in Drenthe a lot, but I've been in the area specifically to talk to the residents and the drivers. It made as much impression on me as it did on Mrs Dik-Faber. We have an ambitious goal for renewable energy. We want to phase out the existing infrastructure and we are already starting to do so. The gas plants are largely inactive. We have the ambition to disable the oldest five coal power stations. That means that we are very much in the process of doing so. At the same time, we are building alternative capacity, and that alternative capacity affects residents. If you as a resident look at the sea from the coast and you see those mills at 18 km or more, you touch it. It also affects the residents when the mills come much closer and are placed on land. The impact that that has on the area and the residents involved, you feel it, I feel it, they feel it and it is also good that we feel it, because that is the only way we can achieve responsible decision-making. Mrs. Dik-Faber also asked about the spare locations. That's what I've been working on. Then she also had a specific amendment to the Environment Act. I've already gone into that. The amendment she mentions provides for the competent authority to know at the start of the procedure how the environment is involved and for detailed rules to be laid down for the way in which it operates. My colleague from Infrastructure and the Environment is now preparing these detailed rules. That's the arrangement that needs to be put in place. I will ask her what period she wants this arrangement to take place. As soon as that arrangement comes into view, I will try to act in the spirit of that arrangement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u108	That is indeed the amendment I was referring to. As far as I know, a participation plan has been agreed in the province of Drenthe, but much later than I thought of the amendment. We can't take that back now. The amendment stipulates that a participation plan should be established at the exploratory stage. That happened later in Drenthe. We can't take that back now. I think it would be good if the Minister acknowledged that the trial did not go well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u109	No, I don't recognize that. We have given both formal and substantive content to the rules that were there. An amendment is part of the law. It's just a piece of legislation. That legislation does not apply to a situation three years ago. Then there were other laws and rules. Once again, we were very motivated to ensure that people were involved as soon as areas became concrete. We have done so formally and materially as much as possible. The amendment has further strengthened this for future situations. We will once again do formal and substantive justice to the amendment as part of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u110	Formal and material this is a very correct answer from the Minister. The minister himself has been in the area. There you are confronted with residents who are dealing with the plans for energy transition. There are sometimes mills in front and behind the house. I'm really looking for a response from the minister. Can he not, in part, acknowledge with regard to the residents that the process has not gone well and that it is very annoying what they are now facing?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u111	I will not acknowledge that the process has not been right. I've said this a few times. I've already described the trial once or three times. I think the process has been formal and substantively correct. However good that process has been, I can very well imagine that the people in the area in question have a very different view of it. They make a very different assessment and they also express it. I understand that very well. There has been a wide range of responses to this so far. This will be formalised when they come up with their views and then a decision will have to be taken. Eventually, there's the Council of State check. We must not take a more negative view of ourselves than is real. The whole procedure from the outset with the electoral programmes and everything I have said afterwards, including the correct application of the law and the rules, has gone through in a correct way. At all stages, we have done our best to ensure the best possible involvement of those concerned directly and indirectly. I have already touched on Mrs Mulder's comments on the basis of support. The same applies to Mrs Dik-Faber's amendment, which Mrs Mulder also mentioned, as well as the possibilities for alternatives. She asked for an AMvB for more legal certainty for the participation of residents. This concerns the regulations that my colleague from I and M is working on. I just talked about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u112	Thank you for the commitment to the Christian Union and the CDA that the Minister will consult with his colleague Schultz of I and M to promote the rapid development of matters. We look forward to that as soon as possible. Another point is the space given to the region to see where there are real bottlenecks. One of them is the double-line set-up. The minister himself has been there, so he has a picture. What other alternatives does he see for that? Are there alternatives to compensate, possibly through solar panels on rooftops?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u113	We're gonna have to realize that 6,000 megawatts is my opinion. This includes a number of megawatts that have to be realized in Drenthe. One part must be realized in Emmen and Coevorden and another part here. I'm working on a plan to realize that number of megawatts in that area. I made a plan for that. That concept integration plan will be further developed, it will come out in November and people will be able to respond to it. I'm not gonna let go of all the pre-work that's already been done to get to that integration plan. All the consultations that were supposed to be there, they're gone. It has been discussed very intensively with all those involved, especially with the initiators. It has also been discussed with the provincial government and all other stakeholders. A preferred alternative has emerged, which is then converted into a concept integration plan. That must now be the participation income. If that is the point of view, I will look again at it. I am currently completing the integration plan, in accordance with the preferred alternative. That includes, among other things, that double line.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u114	That is a clear answer, but a somewhat disappointing one for us. We hope that the regional coordinator and also the Minister's views will change their minds later in the year. Another point that was still open was more or less a joint question from Mr De Vries and me: can there be a different distribution of the desires and the burdens? I tabled a motion on this earlier, which did not make it at the time. Maybe the Minister is still thinking about how he could possibly put his hands and feet on it, because a lot of people feel it is unfair.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u115	Mrs Mulder has brought it up and Mr De Vries has brought it up. I hope that Mrs Mulder will agree with me in my reply to Mr De Vries. That is a response to Mrs Mulder's question. Mr De Vries raised a number of points. He asked whether the mission could actually be achieved, also in relation to what the provinces are doing. That's what I've been working on. Involvement of the residents in accordance with the Environment Act I have entered into. The statements made in a consultation between one of my collaborators and the activists in Groningen have been addressed. Mr De Vries's view on the double line at Drouwenermond is clear. I have already said a lot about this. I will have to face that again when I look at those views. Mr De Vries has asked for an explanation of why it is not possible to do so with those solar panels. The general point I made earlier is that our objective for renewable energy is so ambitious that we must make the most of all the possibilities for producing renewable energy. This means that we are doing very much to get solar energy used more. We see a great deal happening, such as the netting and the reduced rate arrangement. The SDE+ possibilities available for solar panels are also being optimally exploited and there is considerable growth in this. What also helps is that the price of those solar panels is falling. Despite the fact that we have not seen so much sunshine in our country all year round, there is great progress in this. I need those possibilities of solar energy. In addition, I need the potential of biomass and I need the potential of wind on land and of wind at sea. All those ambitions on all those parts, I'm trying to realize. In the meantime, we're gonna have to see how far that's gonna get. If I don't get far enough, we're gonna have to do something extra. I will have to realize that 6,000 megawatts and also the number of megawatts I have agreed with the Drenthe board. An alternative in the form of solar panels is therefore not possible, because I need all that megawatt of wind on land. I have already gone into the second argument. I said if you stop one thing and start another, it'll delay at least three years. That would therefore be an immediate and direct decision to abandon the 14% target by 2020. The third argument is as follows. If you want to create a solar park with a similar capacity, you don't get there by putting solar panels on rooftops. Then you really should fill up a big area with solar panels. The capacity at Drenthe alone would cost an additional 21.7 million per year. The lifespan of such a project is fifteen years. That means that such a project would cost 325 million more. The objections are therefore threefold. First of all, we need all the possibilities. Secondly, we cannot afford that three years delay. Thirdly, I do not think it is justified to add 325 million more to this alternative alone, given the high costs that will already have to be passed on to citizens and businesses. I'm coming to the LOFAR zone. I have already taken note of what Mr De Vries has said about this. The importance of LOFAR to science is clear. That is why, together with the province and the management of ASTRON, I have had several discussions to see how we can ultimately determine that preferred alternative. I am still talking to the province of Drenthe, the initiators and ASTRON as part of the procedure we are following. This should ultimately lead to an outcome limiting the effects on LOFAR to an acceptable level. Mr De Vries also spoke about the desires and the burdens. In particular, he concentrated on the land price. I think it's good to talk about that, too. For the participation of people in the environment there is that code that has been agreed between initiators and nature and environmental organisations. That code should be applied. However, land prices are a separate point. Mrs Van Tongeren has already started on this at an early stage. I gave her the wrong answer on that at the time. I corrected that later and, fortunately, she did not blame me too much. As Mrs Van Tongeren said back then, high prices are being paid for the land. I think those prices are a factor five higher than what you might consider reasonable. I've now adapted the SDE+ scheme. I reduced the ground remuneration paid in the SDE+ scheme in 2014. I also reduced that fee in 2015 and I will further reduce it in 2016 to eventually reach an acceptable ground fee at some point. If we do not pay too much, we will not be overpaid and we will be able to correct it in this way. Mr De Vries has also mentioned a different option to achieve this result, namely the use of the obligation of tolerance. This means that landowners are required to allow such a windmill and to be fully compensated for it. I think that is a serious option. At the moment, I am looking at how that could be further developed. There are still several things attached to this. However, I think this is a real option. So I will also try to work it out as soon as possible and I will share my findings with the Chamber on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u116	I keep asking the Minister a lot of questions, but now I really have to compliment him. I really think this is a breakthrough. In doing so, we treat matters of national interest in the same way. The possibility of using this tolerance would really be a huge step forward for the fair distribution of lusts and burdens.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u117	Mr De Vries discussed the situation in Groningen. I did, too. Mr De Vries indicated that the sixth variant had been put forward by his group. That's true. It has also led to a year and a half delay. That year and a half delay now puts me in a situation where I can still make it by 2020, but if I do something now that leads to delays again, I won't be able to make it by 2020. All the space there was has been used by putting that sixth variant into procedure. We will now have to come to a conclusion very soon for Groningen as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u118	I agree with the Minister, but sketches have been made by Pondera. That agency has looked at all the variants very carefully. One has also looked at neighbouring municipalities, at Oldambt and Veendam, within the existing search area for which all procedures have been followed. Within these possibilities, optimizations are still possible, even in such a way that only seven people fall within the obstacle circle. That would be quite a leap forward. I ask the Minister to listen to that kindly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u119	I have used all the possibilities available under the rules in force in Groningen, rules for the designated area, the EIA, to include that sixth variant. I don't have room to go any further. What's got to do with variants now, it is. I've asked the county board to come forward with a preferred alternative. I hope to get it quickly and then work on a draft integration plan. The space that was available has been used optimally in terms of both time and content. I see no possibility of going any further than the six variants that are currently available.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u120	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u121	You are through your interruptions, but you still have a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u122	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman, but I haven't been clear enough. The province of Groningen looks within that sixth variant, possibly in combination with the fifth variant, to see if an optimization is possible. Groningen will make proposals that will not lead to delays. That's what I'm calling attention to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u123	Mr De Vries is, as is often the case, well informed. I don't know exactly what the province of Groningen comes up with. I do know that I've asked you to come up with preferred variants. I'm hoping to get it next week, too. We'll see what they come up with. I will be happy to respond to that, but I have to respond to what the province comes up with and I cannot respond to what Mr De Vries is now announcing, with all due respect I have for him. I have already touched on an important point raised by Mr Bosman. He indicated what is needed to achieve sustainability, that he has made agreements on this with his group and that he is sticking to it. He doesn't want to go any further than those appointments right now. He noted that I have my hands full in meeting these commitments and that I am doing my utmost to achieve them. I'm not ahead of follow-up right now. First this has to work out and then we'll see. Mr Bosman has also rightly linked the sustainability of our energy supply, security of supply and affordability. I think that's true. I agree with him on these points.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u124	Thank you very much to the Minister. While in the Arena in Amsterdam the Dutch Team has a dramatic evening, in this arena we continue with full force with the second term, starting with Mrs Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u125	Mr President, I shall table the following motions for resolutions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas windmills, like motor vehicles, factories and events must comply with the statutory noise standards;]] [[noting that the police have access to standardised sound measuring instruments;]] [[calls on the Government to actively enforce noise standards,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that 1,000 megawatts of the agreed capacity of Wind on land are still in the lead;]] [[having regard to the opinion of the Committee on Budgetary Control,]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that provinces do not impose any super-legal additional requirements for windmill projects,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33612-52]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33612-53]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u126	I thank the Minister for the commitment to consider whether it is possible to consult with the ACM on this matter. My final motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that in practice the lead time between the SDE+ decision and the realisation of techniques such as wind on land is a few years;]] [[Whereas the planning in the SDE+ of the annual space available is not automatically in line with the timely implementation of the various techniques by 2020;]] [[noting that the General Court concludes that the SDE+ planning is not in line with achieving 14% of renewable energy by 2020 due to release and lead times;]] [[calls on the government, ECN, to examine how SDE+ money should be distributed over the years up to 2020 in order to land up to 14% of renewable energy and the 6,000 megawatt wind by 2020,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33612-54]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u127	Mr. Chairman. I am tabling a motion on the history of the use of the National Coordination Regulation. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas transparency and clear rules of the game are of benefit to the creation of support;]] [[Whereas applications for the National Coordination Scheme (RCR) for the Raedthuys wind farm and De Drentse Monden were submitted well before the province had accepted the search areas;]] [[Whereas the RCR was declared applicable before the Empire had established a spatial framework for this purpose through the Infrastructure and Space Structure Vision and the Wind Land Structure Vision;]] [[Whereas the three wind farms in the Drenthe Veenkoloniën are each too small to be covered by the RCR;]] [[calls on the government, by means of independent investigation, to answer the question whether the Empire in Drenthe uses and has made use of the RCR correctly,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Smaling. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33612-55]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u128	I sincerely hope that the desires and burdens will be distributed in a better way than they are now. We had a good debate. The SP has been blamed for not complying with the agreement on the 6,000 megawatts. I say again that this is not true. Iron must now be broken with hands. As a result, I believe that some of the population is being treated undemocratically. As a representative of the people, I cannot agree with a solution whereby you expose a part of the population in this country to matters that go far beyond what is acceptable to people when it comes to their living environment. I hope, therefore, that the Minister will come to a decision that will be welcomed by more people than he is now doing in that region after the trials that are to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u129	Mr. Chairman. A while ago, I suggested working with an external area coordinator. The Minister said: I find that an interesting idea; I am going to think about it. I am very pleased that the Minister has said that he is going to appoint one and that this has happened in Drenthe. That is why I thought it would be a good time as a Chamber to explain with the Minister how we see such an area coordinator. This is very much in line with the way the Minister implements this in Drenthe, but I thought it would be good to put that more generically together. It can also be useful in other areas. It doesn't necessarily have to be standard in every area, but then we know what we expect from it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas an external area coordinator for wind areas under the National Coordination Scheme can contribute to the proper weighting of interests of residents, initiators and governments, and to the creative exploitation of the thinking power of all parties;]] [[Whereas the external area coordinator should enjoy the trust of all parties, but in particular of residents;]] [[Considering that in any case, an area coordinator should also pay attention to compensation and participation of residents;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the area coordinators, where they are appointed, are given time, space and tools to perform their tasks properly and to inform the Chamber of the results thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Van Veldhoven, Agnes Mulder and Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33612-56]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u130	Perhaps more colleagues would like to sign the motion. I think it would be nice if we could send out this broad signal from the Chamber to the province and to all parties in the Netherlands who are dealing with wind areas. Where I am talking about time, D66 also supports the 6,000 megawatt target by 2020. In that context, it must all fit.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u131	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for the answers to the questions and for the announcement that he has now started working together with the Minister of I and M to work out the amendment of Christian Union and CDA to the Environment Act. There will be a further scheme to make a participation plan mandatory. That's very good. Unfortunately, this amendment is too late for the area we have talked about this evening, Drenthe. The Christian Union believes that the process deserves anything but the beauty prize, but at least let the amendment do its job for upcoming projects. I'm glad to hear that the area coordinator has started work in the meantime. I hope he can do some good in the area. The Minister has outlined how the process will proceed. The EIA will be launched this autumn. Of course, different variants are also covered. This is inherent in the EIA procedure. Does the Minister intend to open up this procedure and carefully consider the views that will be presented? I assume that he will do so because ultimately the Council of State will form an opinion on this. For the record, I don't have any motions tonight. I look with interest at colleagues' motions. My desire for this evening is for a final decision to be made that will make residents suffer less than is currently the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u132	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for the commitment that the spokesperson of the Christian Union just spoke about regarding the joint amendment by Christian Union and CDA. We would like the new regional coordinator to start work in the spirit of the amendment. Perhaps the Minister could comment on that. The Minister's answers tonight were clear, but also disappointing for a lot of people. That goes for me, too. We are very curious to see how the obligation of tolerance, a commitment to Mr De Vries, is working out for the lusts and burdens of the inhabitants of all the areas affected by wind energy. We hope it will have a good effect. At least this one's better than what's going on right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u133	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his answers and once again express my appreciation for his firm determination in carrying out this task. I would like to thank him once again for the idea that he wants to study on the duty of tolerance. That's a real win for tonight. The Minister says he will take a serious look at the point of view and he will not do that for bullshit. However, in the whole process I see very little change and space to shift. That's what I'm worried about. In Drenthe, this is a preferred alternative. As far as I know, that's a little one-sided. I don't think the county's in agreement there anymore. The province does not think that dual arrangement is the right solution. I hope that the Minister will look into that view and do his best to get something done in relation to that big point that is going on there, namely that people in the abdomen and back get such a large turbine. In order to encourage him to do so, I will table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in the planning area of Drenthe Monden near Drouwenermond there is a set-up of windmills at the front and back of the building ribbon;]] [[considers that this will have a major impact on the viability of the area in question;]] [[calls on the government, in the current viewing procedure, if necessary together with the province of Drenthe, to take a serious look at the concerns of residents who may be faced with a windmill at the front and back of their homes,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Albert de Vries. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33612-57]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u134	Mr. Chairman. The Van Tongeren motion in part No. 52 asks the government to actively enforce noise standards. It can't be. We are not the competent authority for that. The municipality is the competent authority for the enforcement of noise standards. There's no role for the government. I think it is very good that these standards are maintained. Municipal authorities have to do that. They also have a parliament there. It's called the city council. This will have to be done with regard to mopeds, cars and windmills. I'm deceiving the motion in part No. That's 52.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u135	The Minister is undoubtedly right. I'll just find out why I've been given information that the police have the standard sound instruments, so she should take measurements for that. Maybe I'm wrong. I am pleased that the Minister has said that this must be maintained on all points. If there's a mill somewhere that violates the law, that mill shouldn't just stand there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u136	It could be that we're both right. This would mean that the municipality is the competent authority and that the police could be responsible for carrying it out. Then I come to Mrs Van Tongeren's second motion, on part No. 53. This is about the 1,000 MW that she and I have talked about before. It asks the government to ensure that the provinces do not impose any super-statutory additional requirements for windmill projects. I hope that in my first reply the Chamber will understand that we should not fail the provinces in their rights either. They have different responsibilities. They try to combine them responsibly, I estimate. If that leads them to start the procedures for all 1000 MW this year, then I am in favour of it. I will not prevent them from combining their policy on the agricultural area or landscape with what is happening at the point of wind on land, for example. I therefore reject Mrs Van Tongeren's second motion. In her third motion, in part No. 54, Mrs Van Tongeren asks me to have an ECN investigation carried out. I informed the Chamber of the wind farms on land and at sea which I intend to achieve by 2020 and in addition to the objectives of 14% and 16%. Through the storage of renewable energy, I also reserve sufficient resources to enable this roll-out. Scots in the SDE+ are not necessary and in view of the SDE+'s system, it is also undesirable, because it is aimed at achieving competition between different forms of renewable energy and different projects. Moreover, the introduction of bulkheads can lead to the absence of an annual budget, for example because there are not enough wind projects. You wouldn't be able to use that money for anything else. This unnecessarily slows down the roll-out of renewable energy. What this motion calls for serves the good cause that we both strive for, so it is not. That is why I reject Mrs Van Tongeren's third motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u137	If the Minister, like me, wants to have 6,000 MW in 2020 and it takes at least two years for such a park to be in place after a decision, then the last decision for that batch of wind on land should be issued in 2017. You can then calculate how much positive has to be achieved in the years before, but the ECN can do that much better than I can. I'm worried if we're gonna make it. It would give me a tremendous comfort if someone did a little more calculating that than I tried on the back of a beer skin.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u138	I have already said that if the procedures for the last 1,000 MW are started this year, it is possible to implement these mills in time for 2020. I have also indicated that the money is available for this. That's what we need to know before the procedure. So it's possible and the money's available. That is why I must discourage Mrs Van Tongeren's third motion. I'm getting to the motion on part No. 55 by Mr Smaling. It invites the government, through independent investigation on the basis of the facts as it sees them, to answer the question of whether the Empire has correctly used and used the state coordination regime. He refers to the wind farm in Drenthe. I have to discourage this motion. I have already indicated that, on the basis of the examination of that case and the opinion on it, I am convinced that the national coordination system applies. Once the decision has been taken, the Council of State will make a final decision on this matter. That's the body that has to assess this. It is my job to make a good analysis of this. I made these. This has rightly been brought under the state coordination regime. This motion by Mr Smaling, in which he asks for an independent investigation, I therefore advise against.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u139	I have here a letter dated 8 July 2010, in which Minister Van der Hoeven writes to Raedthuys Windenergie that she is willing to use the national coordination scheme for the realization of a large-scale wind farm in Borger-Odoorn. That was one day after the provincial environment vision Drenthe was established. The application must therefore have already been made. That's weird, isn't it? Surely it is not as crazy as I would ask the Minister to dust this whole process for once and possibly to indicate by letter how it has been done from the beginning and to check whether it has been a transparent and logical process? That is what I am asking for with this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u140	What the motion demands is an independent investigation. I didn't recommend that motion. If Mr Smaling asks me to look again at the situation in the Chamber, I will do so myself. Well, I'm sure I'm willing to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u141	I'm glad. That independent investigation doesn't have to last a year. You can put someone on it to see how it went. It is also about the regularity of things. I think it's good for everyone if it's very transparent. Maybe it's a little more practical when someone looks at it through independent glasses instead of just getting a letter. However, I would be happy to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u142	I look at it differently than Mr Smaling. I have often noticed that this also applies to other groups in the Chamber. I'm not into constantly independent investigations. We have a responsibility to stand up for the common good. We must, by definition, be independent. We are doing our best to ensure that all the decisions we take are in the general interest. If anything about a procedure needs to be clarified, I have the people for it. That's objective. I'd also like to share that information with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u143	Then I'll hold the motion, provided the Minister does want to deliver that letter. Point 3 of the letter of 8 July 2010 specifically states that the initiator is responsible for organising support for the project. I'd like to see if the initiator did the same. Can we do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u144	That's another point. I have said that I believe that I am competent to apply this state coordination scheme for the Drenthe project. I have already addressed the points raised by the Borger-Odoorn municipality. I will do that again in my letter. Mr Smaling mentioned a date. I'll deal with that. However, I have already said a lot about acceptance. I don't want to do that again. I'm not involved in that. I will clarify the formal side of the procedure before the Chamber in a form of a letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u145	At the request of Mr Smaling, I propose his motion (33612, No. 55). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u146	Then I come to the motion on part No. 56 by Mrs Van Veldhoven. She said that the government should ensure that the area coordinators have the time, space and tools to carry out their tasks properly and asked the government to inform the Chamber of the results. I have already said that the area coordinator in Drenthe has started his preparatory work. He needs to do a reconnaissance of the population right now. He should explore the situation and the possibilities with other stakeholders. He can then work to achieve what I explained to the Chamber in my first term. On the basis of his exploration, consultation and his findings, it will be examined which instruments are needed. I will inform the Chamber of those instruments and their application in this case. I think I can leave the judgement to the Chamber on what Mrs Van Veldhoven has stated in the motion. I believe that this does not conflict with what she and I are aiming at and with what I have just explained in response to what she has put on paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u147	I would like to thank the Minister very much for his constructive response to the motion. I would like to inform you that Mrs Dik-Faber would like to be mentioned as a signatory to the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u148	I couldn't have slept last night if I had to leave without a motion from Mrs. Dik-Faber. Luckily, it still worked out at the end of the day. I thank Mrs Van Veldhoven for that. Mrs Dik-Faber said that careful consideration should be given to the point of view. Mrs Mulder and Mr De Vries also said this. Mr De Vries has also made this point in a motion he has tabled. I think it is my responsibility to ensure that the procedure of the national coordination system is carefully followed. That means that people submit views. That is not a formality, but that is the arguments, considerations and expression of the interests of the people. They're gonna bring it to me. It is my job to get them to work on me, to put my own plan next to it, and to see what conclusions should be drawn responsibly. I'll do that anyway. Mr De Vries has once again made it clear to me where he sees a problem in particular. He put that in a motion. I don't think that's contrary to what I just said. I shall leave the De Vries motion to the vote. 57 then to the Chamber. In doing so, I hope to have responded adequately to the Court's contribution in the second term. I thank the spokesmen for their input and thank you, Mr President, for the opportunity you have given me to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-11.u149	I propose that we vote on the motions next Tuesday. I would like to thank the Minister and all those present. I wish you all a safe journey home.
