ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-13.u1	Before I give the floor to the Secretary of State, I would like to ask Members to use only the front interrupt microphone, if they want to be in the picture when they place an interruption. Because the Secretary of State gives her answers sitting down, the camera is now set something else. If the members want to come into the picture, they have to use the front microphone. If they think "I don't care, I don't need to get in the picture," they can use the other interrupt microphone. I call the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-13.u2	Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much. Do not tell me that the choreography here is now being completely adapted.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-13.u3	It's also a matter of vanity. If the members do not care, they use the rear microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-13.u4	First of all, I would like to thank the Chamber very much for the fact that it wanted to put this bill on the agenda so quickly. That's very funny. For my part, too, I would like to congratulate Mrs Oomen-Ruijten on her maiden speech, which I also enjoyed. She brings a huge backpack with knowledge from all kinds of gremia that matter. That's good. I should also like to thank all the other spokesmen who made their contribution in the first term. First of all, let me tell you how I intend to build up my speech. I realize that this is the last debate before Christmas, so I will try to highlight my speech as briefly as possible. If spokesmen think that their input has not been given sufficient attention, I would like to hear it in second term, because I would be delighted to do so in my second term. A number of important issues have been exchanged, which have been raised by many spokesmen. Of course, I'd like to treat it anyway. This concerns the VAT exemption, the participation of participants and the retroactive effect of this. I would also like to highlight a number of other separate issues. I think it's good to outline the context. Over the past period, we have also seen a large number of legislative proposals reviewed in this Chamber: governance, the Witteveen framework, the financial review framework, pension communication, not having to eat the third pillar pension whenzzp'ers get into the assistance. There are also a number of important laws ahead, such as the bill to optimize the premium agreement. That is already pending in the Lower House. If it pleases the King, the law amending the Works Council Act will also be sent to the Lower House before the new year, so that it can be dealt with here as soon as possible. It is about keeping our pension system as robust as possible and thinking about the future; that is what we are doing. I have sent the House of Representatives and this Chamber a work programme on the pension dialogue. That's in a nutshell what we've done and what we're going to do. Today we are talking about the General Pension Fund Act. The apf is urgent. That is essential to me. I see that people in the pension world are keen to work with the appf. Speed is a great thing in itself, but care is also a good thing. So it is important that we look at how we can do it as carefully as possible tonight. A number of spokesmen have asked what the added value of the general pension fund is. We see that the number of pension funds has been falling for years and that the current options are limited. As far as the size of the scale is concerned, the preservation of individuality must of course remain anchored. That is the interest of the participant. All spokesmen have placed the interest of the participant on number 1. That's what I do to them. The number of pension funds was above 1,000 and according to the recent figures of the Nederlandsche Bank there are 329. You can see that the number of pension funds will be even smaller. I could tell you a lot more about what the general pension fund is carrying, but we have all been able to read that. I would therefore like to start with the VAT exemption. A large number of spokesmen have asked whether the cabinet would like to investigate this VAT exemption, including for DB schemes. The Chamber understands that, after the first deadline, I went into conclave with my colleague on Finance, Mr Wiebes. I listened to the Room yesterday. The Secretary of State for Finance has reported that there is currently a procedure at the Hoge Raad concerning the VAT treatment of the management of the mutual funds in relation to occupational pension funds. The court in The Hague has agreed with the Tax Administration, but there has been an appeal to the Supreme Court. I understand that in this case an Advocate General will deliver his Opinion before 31 March 2016. This conclusion takes into account all aspects of the VAT exemption. This is an independent opinion of the Advocate General to the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court normally makes a quick ruling after that. I think, and I'll tell the Chamber, that it makes sense for us to await the Advocate General's conclusion before we take any further steps. I understand that a number of Members are considering asking me to carry out an independent investigation together with my colleague in the Treasury, but I would be delighted if we could wait for that opinion from the Advocate General.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-13.u5	I see Mrs Oomen wants to ask a question. Yeah, you got the right mic.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-13.u6	It's the first time. But everything has to be a first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-13.u7	But keep the button down, will you?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-13.u8	I have a question for the Secretary of State. Firstly, does that mean that, if the Advocate General has delivered his Opinion on 31 March, we shall be spared some of the questions which he might still be able to put to the Court in Luxembourg? After all, the deadline will be longer. Secondly, should the Advocate-General conclude that "you are right; the decision taken by the Tax Administration must be annulled', does the intention to change the issue at that time, even before the Supreme Court has spoken, take place?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-13.u9	Mrs Oomen talks about the possibility that the Advocate General may still go to Luxembourg. Of course, that's up to the Advocate General. I am afraid to confirm or contradict that here. I can't say. But what I got back from Finance is that an Advocate General will reach that conclusion by 31 March. I'm on it right now. Mrs Oomen asks: what do you do next? That is something we have to discuss in the bosom of the cabinet. I cannot, of course, anticipate that either. I don't know exactly what the Advocate General's opinion will be. Then, of course, we must look at what the Supreme Court does with this conclusion. After that, the cabinet is back to business. In short, that is the orderly path. I would ask the Chamber once again to await that conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-13.u10	I would indeed like to wait and see with the Secretary of State, but I have the impression that this Chamber has also wanted to send a clear signal. That is the signal that it is now presented as EU proof in the current legislative proposal, with an uneven playing field as a result, while many groups, at least mine, have said that they consider it undesirable as such. It is very good that it will be taken back into the bosom of the cabinet when that statement is made, but I would like to hear confirmation that the Secretary of State takes the signal from the Chamber seriously that she wants that playing field to be filled in equally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-13.u11	I listened very carefully to the Chamber. She has indeed talked about the unequal playing field and about wanting to be the best boy or girl in the class in Europe. Debates of the European Parliament I imagine that at some point the conclusion from the cabinet will be shared with both Chambers, but I really can't tell when that moment will be exactly. I would like to move on to another subject: the choice of the general pension fund and its added value. It should be clear that the social partners decide on the type of pension scheme and on which pension provider is implementing it. Firstly, the general pension fund has safeguards to protect the participant. It should be clear that the general pension fund is really a pension fund. This means that there is participation of participants. Secondly, the general pension fund must be a foundation. Mr Postuma has asked for this. So no profit should be made. Thirdly, the general pension fund applies ringfencing and a ranking scheme. As a result, it is clear which costs are borne by which pension assets and in what order. I think it would be good for the clarity to mention this. The participation of the participant was an important point for several spokesmen. Mr Rinnooy Kan has also pointed this out. I think it is also good for clarity to clarify that participation in pensions is, of course, a great asset in any case. In general, our system is based on collectivity and solidarity. The social partners together agree on the employment condition for pensions on behalf of their constituents. You can say specifically in the general pension fund that if, after consultation between social partners, there is a transfer at the employer's request from an insurer to a general pension fund, then Article 83 of the Pension Act applies, and thus the individual right of objection of the participant. If the participant objects, his claims remain with the current pension administrator. A participant with claims with an insurer does not automatically transfer to a general pension fund executed by an insurer, as the insurer is not about that. If an enterprise pension fund is transformed into a general pension fund, Article 84 of the Pension Act applies. This is similar to the situation of the liquidation of a pension administrator. This is decided by the social partners. The participation of stakeholders is also addressed in either the governance of the stakeholder body or the accountability body. In doing so, the board of the pension fund shall ensure a balanced representation of all stakeholders. The participant cannot lag behind the current performer, as it ceases to exist. If Article 83 were to apply when a pension fund was converted into a general pension fund, there would be a de facto right of veto for the formation of the general pension fund in this way. I can tell the questioners that there is always participation of participants.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-13.u12	Mr Rinnooy Kan, we have come to the conclusion that nobody was actually in the picture at that microphone. If you want to be in the picture, the Secretary of State has to shut down her microphone every time an interruption occurs. That seems a little tricky to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-13.u13	I understand I'm not losing a lot because of this maneuver. At least I'm gonna stand here with joy. I'd like to respond to what the Secretary of State just said. First of all, I would like to thank her for clarifying the transition from an insurance scheme to a general pension fund. That is the transition that is, in a sense, the most vulnerable, because then something changes substantially. The insurance scheme presents a much lower risk. As far as I am concerned, this transition will therefore also have to be considered critically. If there is a higher risk, there is also, in principle, a higher pension. Just to get that transition pure, value-neutral, some guidance is in order. The individual institution is desirable. Just as you describe it, there is, as far as I am concerned, an almost too big difference between that transition and the other transition, say from a pension fund to a scheme within an apf. Your reference to the role played by the social partners is, on its own, entirely correct, but the protection of the individual participant is considerably lower, and I really think it is less in practice. This is particularly true in the practical situation that is at issue, but there is no social partner, but there is an individual scheme, an additional scheme, which can also end up within the scope of the scheme and where, by definition, the person who has concluded the scheme does not have a social partner representing his interests. First of all, I would like to draw your attention to that difference. That bothers me and not just me. I would like to ask you to take a closer look at this now or in future at this sitting, because I think it is very important that anyone who is going through the transition to an app should be given a decent opportunity to be involved in the decision-making process, knowing that it involves major financial interests. I'm saying it's relatively spacious. Article 83, of course, has a fairly extreme variant of the protection offered. I can imagine that it is not literally to be taken over in the general setting, which seems to have originally been the intention. At the very least, then, there should be something in place that does justice to adequate protection of the great private interest that could be at stake here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-13.u14	I can follow Mr Rinnooy Kan when he says: if Rule 84 is on the table, the social partners obviously play a major role. Then you can assume that the social partners also represent those interests of participants. Edoch, Mr Rinnooy Kan says: I still have a little concern about some individuals at this point, especially when it comes to involvement in decision-making. I can imagine that I am looking very closely at this particular aspect. It is perhaps a good idea that I should come back to that in the second term, because I can well outline how I can give my hands and feet to it in the short term. I think that Article 83 and Article 84 in themselves cover the issue well, but if there is still one point of attention left in this particular case, it is good to keep that under review.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-13.u15	As far as I am concerned, there really is reason for that critical inspection, because the difference between the two routes is too great for me. For me, at least, it is essential that this essential decision, whatever route it takes from the current arrangement to the apf, should be at a time for the individual participant to question it and at least exert some influence on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-13.u16	I think Mr Rinnooy can now express himself very carefully. I imagine that we will really be able to give our hands and feet to that. Of course, it is always the case, for each individual participant, that it is about his or her old age provision. Carefulness is an asset and participation is also an asset. Of course, you always have to look at how to anchor that in legislation. I would like to look at that again, but we cannot solve it immediately this evening. But I'd like to see if we could come up with something more solid in here. Then I come to another subject that has also been raised by many. We are in a rather special situation here because of course we are dealing with a novelle with a history. Some of you, Mrs Oomen-Ruijten, and Mr Elzinga, have just refreshed that history, if I may say so, and asked why the Lodders/Vermeij amendment, as it was tabled and adopted in the Second Chamber, has an impact on market forces, since it concerns a merger between compulsory occupational pension funds. They asked me, and so did Mr Kok, why I did not choose to reduce the effects of the amendment. The amendment aimed at enabling ringfencing, in order to provide a solution to compulsory occupational pension funds that wanted to merge. During the plenary debate on the bill in the House of Representatives, I indicated that I liked the purpose of the amendment. I still think so. But I also said that I saw risks in the legal sustainability of the obligation. I indicated at that time that I would ask the Council of State for information on the extent of these risks. It concerns a major amendment to the bill, on which the Council of State could not have ruled as an independent adviser to the government. I am not going to ask other researchers to look at it again. Mr. Kok asked for that. The Council of State stated in its information that the amendment had an impact on market forces. This is because the ban on ringfencing is being broken, while the ban on ringfencing is precisely intended to ensure balanced competition between pension funds and insurers. The Council of State also stated in its information that the amendment is not without a risk to the sustainability of the obligation in the light of European competition rules. In the current situation, the commitment to the fund is. So is solidarity. The amendment would lead to a situation where the obligation is at the level of the fund, but solidarity at the level of the scheme. This would disrupt the link between compulsoryization and solidarity, as currently existing in the pension system. The legislative proposal that I would like to put forward in this context is based on a different situation, namely the creation of an option for compulsory occupational pension funds to use the general pension fund. For this purpose, as SEO proposes in its research, it is necessary to use a scenario in which the obligation and solidarity are at the same level, i.e. that of the collection circle. For example, compulsory occupational pension funds within a general pension fund can use ringfencing, but the link between compulsoryisation and solidarity remains. This is very important for the legal sustainability of the obligation. That is why I am so committed to tabling an additional legislative proposal on this issue. This is something that I understand is very important to the House of Representatives, but also to your Chamber. Mr Postema and Mr Rinnooy Kan have asked me about the planning of this bill. I intend to send the House of Representatives a planning letter with all pension issues before 1 February. Then I would also like to give more insight into the planning for this bill. I also think it is important, because I see that the industry pension funds that have been made compulsory are keen to work on this. I aim to ensure that the entry into force takes place as soon as possible. In the planning letter of February 1st, I will state in detail when the bill will also be able to land at your Chamber. I come now to another part: the insurers and the general pension fund. Mr Rinnooy Kan asked how consumers could be protected in all circumstances. He asked that in the context of the possibility of supervisory arbitrage, as insurers could possibly be able to come under Solvency II in this way. Mrs Oomen-Ruijten pointed out that the general pension fund applied the benefit per circle of collection. She asked if that is also a reason that insurers are interested. Insurers are indeed interested in setting up a general pension fund. The general pension fund is covered by the pension fund. That is indeed a different supervisory framework from Solvency II. Let me say first of all that a participant cannot simply be transferred from a pension scheme to an insurer to a pension scheme with a general pension fund. We have just discussed Articles 83 and 84. The individual right of objection is certainly governed by Article 83. For the sake of clarity, I think it is right to say once again that there is participation of the social partners. As I said earlier, the general pension fund is a foundation. Together with the ringfencing and the ranking arrangement, this ensures that the participant is truly protected. Mr Van de Ven asked a question about the licence and its retroactive effect. He asked whether it would be possible for pension funds to complete the transition to the general pension fund by 1 January 2016 after the authorisation of the general pension fund has been granted by the Netherlands Bank. Mr Rinnooy Kan has also asked questions about this. I have already indicated, also in the written reply, that a licence cannot enter into force retroactively, but I understand the question that concerns the method of collective value transfers. If a general pension fund is set up and licensed, it will want to make arrangements with parties considering a collective transfer of value to the general pension fund. This includes agreements on the date on which the collective transfer of value is made, including any retroactive effect of the collective transfer of value. It is ultimately up to the Netherlands Bank to agree or not to accept the proposed transfer of value, including the intended date of that transfer of value. It seems prudent to me that such situations are explicitly authorised by the supervisor. There must always be no doubt that the participant remains protected from both his old and his new claims to be built up. Mr Van de Ven indicated that he considered that there should not be a pension agreement which was not always and fully placed with an authorised pension administrator. In that respect, I think we understand each other well, but I cannot promise in advance that it will always be possible. I like to say that. For that, the Dutch Bank really needs to look closely at the exact situation. That is also in the interest of the participant. It also seems essential to me to say something about the administration of a general pension fund. I have already said a few things about this, even when I was talking about how the participants can be guaranteed exactly. Participation is regulated through the stakeholder bodies. So the role of the social partners does not have to be a brake on the increase in scale, I can also tell Mr Kok. A general pension fund may have joint management. In this case, the social partners participate in the management and there is a responsible body per circle of collectivity. So I can say to Mr Lintmeijer that, if parity is considered important, it is possible to bring it forward in the general pension fund structure. All governance models involve participation of participants. I think I have answered Mr Rinnooy Kan's question once again. I have already answered Mr Postema's question as to why a general pension fund should be a foundation, but he also had another question. It is desirable for a general pension fund to be a foundation, because it is intended to protect the members. A foundation can't make a profit. Mr Postema's supplementary question concerned service providers. Also in the current situation, service providers, such as asset managers and administrative offices, provide their services to a pension fund for remuneration. That makes sense, because a service is provided and then a fee is paid. It is therefore very important for each pension fund to look closely at the services provided and the remuneration to be paid when contracting the service providers. This also applies in the current situation and is therefore not new. Mr Postema also asked a question about a possible referendum. Shouldn't the authorisation procedure be suspended? I wanted to deal with this as pragmaticly as possible, so that the general pension fund could be rigged as soon as possible, but of course this law is also referendable. We know that you have to go through different steps in order to reach a referendum. That is why I would like to make the following point. At the time the Dutch Bank needs to issue the licence, it will be possible to clarify whether or not there is a referendum to be held. If there is no referendum, the permits can simply be issued in accordance with the agreement. In reply to written questions, including those of Mr Postema, I indicated that I would consider asking DNB to suspend the authorisation procedure if the possibility of a referendum still exists at the end of the decision-making period. This avoids as much as possible the situation that general pension funds are already operating if there is a real possibility that there will be a referendum on the General Pension Fund Act. That seems to me to be a very pragmatic way of working. We know that the first step always consists of 10,000 signatures within four weeks. The preliminary request must then be approved and 300,000 signatures must be signed within six weeks. Well, we all know how that bill works. Mr Rinnooy Kan asked whether an opinion generally required a Wft permit. Of course, it is very important for employers to be adequately informed and advised about the choices made in the assignment of the pension scheme. Financial intermediaries providing concrete advice on pension schemes fall within the scope of the Financial Supervision Act. I understand Mr Rinnooy Kan's question in such a way that the expertise requirements of the Financial Supervision Act and the Financial Supervision Decision do not apply to pension advisers who are involved in a general pension fund or who voluntarily join an industry pension fund. My colleague from the Finance Committee, with whom I have briefly completed this, is now considering whether the law can be amended to this effect. He will discuss this with all the partners in conclave in January, because this is indeed another point of attention. Mr Lintmeijer asked whether the interests of the participants were sufficiently guaranteed in all innovation. Yes. In general, pension funds will need to be made more explicit agreements on price and quality. Thus, more explicit considerations of the employer are also made in the accommodation of a pension scheme. This may further invite performers to distinguish themselves positively and further improve their services. In addition to the involvement of employers in the assignment, there is also the possibility for the representatives of participants from the stakeholder bodies or accountability bodies to review compliance with those agreements in the governance of the general pension fund. Mr Lintmeijer also asked a question about the evaluation of this law. I have promised the House of Representatives that after two years after the entry into force I will have an interim report carried out. The law states that after five years we will carry out an evaluation of the general pension fund. In any event, I indicated that the interim report will look at the state of affairs regarding governance models and cost savings. Mrs Oomen-Ruijten asked if there could be a separate fiduciary manager per separate power. Yeah, you can. Like any pension fund, a general pension fund can outsource activities to, for example, a fiduciary asset manager. A passive simple investment strategy can also be chosen if it is in line with the characteristics and needs of a collection circle. Mrs Oomen-Ruijten also asked what solutions exist for resistance if this is not allowed out of pension funds. The pension funds can finance resistance from a so-called excasso provision. These always hold pension funds for future costs. You can use that as soon as you transfer it to another pension administrator. Then I've come to the end of my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-13.u17	Thank you. We have now reached the second term of office. I give the floor to Mrs Oomen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-13.u18	Madam President. I would like to begin by thanking the Secretary of State, my colleagues and you for the very kind words they spoke to me last night on the occasion of my maiden speech. I promise you, Madam President, that I will respect my time in future. As a CDA group, we have been very pleased to contribute to the rapid treatment of the EPF, because we believe that it is an urgent legislative proposal. We always have the participant at the centre. If we can help that participant by making it possible to rationalize, then we are the first to wish to participate. The State Secretary made a number of comments on the VAT exemption. If I understand correctly, there's a procedure. The Advocate General is going to draw an Opinion before 31 March, apart from the fact that this could last longer than the period up to 31 March, but then it comes: then we should wait for the Supreme Court to deliver a judgment. In the meantime, the Cabinet will discuss what to do after the Advocate General's Opinion. It's taking me a little too long. Now I do not want to be annoying and I have also listened carefully to the nice words of the Secretary of State. That's why I modified a motion that I had prepared a little bit. Should I file the motion myself?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-13.u19	No, no, no, no, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-13.u20	I hope you can read my scribble too. The President shall: Mr Oomen-Ruijten, Mr Van Rij, Mr Elzinga, Mr Rinnooy Kan, Mr Kok, Mr Nagel and Mr Lintmeijer proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas:]] [[that the difference in VAT treatment of the management costs of pension funds implementing DC and DB schemes respectively leads to an undesirable and uneven playing field within the Netherlands and in relation to neighbouring countries;]] [[that, for DB schemes, the pension income for the members of the fund is also determined by the investment results on the premium deposited;]] [[that the abovementioned difference in VAT treatment does not follow from the VAT Directive in question and the case law of the Court of Justice in Luxembourg;]] [[calls on the Government to:]] [[order an independent external examination of the possibilities to apply equal VAT treatment in the Netherlands within the scope of the VAT Directive as regards management costs for DC and DB schemes, taking into account developments in case law;]] [[preferably to come to the Spring Paper with a proposal to repair this problem which could be reflected in the Tax Collection Act 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34117-H]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-13.u21	Madam President, may I proceed now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-13.u22	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-13.u23	And this subtracts you from my time or what?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-13.u24	If you'd watched the electronic meter, you'd have noticed that I've stopped the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-13.u25	Okay. Yes!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-13.u26	What's the deal with the investigation? Those researchers themselves will be very curious about the ruling of the Supreme Court, won't they? Don't we have a problem of patience? Would it not be better to await the ruling of the Supreme Court and, above all, to call on the Secretary of State to take a position on it or to have it examined further in the light of that ruling?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-13.u27	Firstly, we do not want to delay this matter. Secondly, the Secretary of State says that the Advocate General would deliver an opinion by 31 March. Afterwards, in the bosom of the cabinet they will discuss what to do with it. We think that's too insecure. That is why we are tabling this motion. I have made a number of comments in my first term, such as the observation that the apf will be filled in mainly by the insurers, because, as the Secretary of State himself admits, there are a number of disadvantages to the insured scheme for insurers. They don't have those disadvantages in the Ftk. However, this means that there is a disadvantage for the participants. In one case, with the insured scheme, you have a security of 99.5%, in the other case of 97.5%. That means there's a big difference in value. Mr Rinnooy Kan has already spoken about this. The Secretary of State then stated here that the participants always have control over such a transition. However, there are cases where Articles 83 and 84 are not provided for. The Secretary of State would come up with something to do with that. Then I got a ring of bells ringing, because what can you think of if the law is in fact passed? Maybe she can shed some light on that. I thank the Secretary of State for the answers to the questions on asset management. It was a good answer. Thank you for her answer on the paycheck. There is perhaps one more point that needs to be made, namely governance. We will support this bill, but I still feel that the costs of governance, which I am allowed to continue to do, will not be saved much and that people are counting on themselves to be a little rich. Maybe the Secretary of State can say something about that, too. Madam President, I should actually have a bench, but I can just look at the clock and I can see that I have stayed within the allotted time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-13.u28	Maybe the cathedral should go down a little bit, so you can see it even better. I give the floor to Mr Kok.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-13.u29	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for answering the questions. There is a lot to be done here and there, but I have planned to be brief in view of the late hour and especially after the culinary feast we have had. This bill does not lend itself to much discussion. The PVV Group is therefore generally in favour of this, although there are comments to be made. Market forces remain a concern and the intended benefits for a participant are not evident in advance, even if something changes in the structure. Practice will have to prove it. Although the safeguards for the participant appear to be adequately regulated in technical terms, we have just seen the discussion on Articles 83, 84 and what can still be done between them. As far as I am concerned, the motion on the VAT distinction which I myself announced yesterday cannot be accepted, since Mrs Oomen has drafted a motion with the same aim. In our opinion, this motion can simply go ahead. We see it as a support for the Secretary of State, even now that a procedure has been initiated at the Supreme Court and we have to wait for it to come to an end, when we do not really know at what time it will be brought to an end. Fortunately, an evaluation is also foreseen within six months or a year. I wonder what's gonna come out of that. I have taken note of a recent letter from the Secretary of State entitled "Work Programme for future pension systems." A remarkable title that suggests that the plans ensure a good old age with an adequate income. That's in the beginning of the letter. Nothing could be further from the truth. I already devoted a brief critical reflection to it yesterday. It is clear that there are differences of opinion on this issue. In this respect, my group supports the realists who, on the basis of the facts, are concerned about the 'robustness due to necessary maintenance' that this cabinet has put forward. This as opposed to the self-proclaimed positivos; yes, they are there. In the meantime, this group has risen so high in abstract nebula that it has lost sight of the earthly pension problems and lost contact with reality. The PVV group therefore looks forward with interest to the concrete plans for renewal of the cabinet for 2016, at least, for "the steps that should lead us in the right direction." This was exactly three minutes, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-13.u30	Yes, very good. Thank you very much, Mr Kok. I give the floor to Mr Postema.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-13.u31	Mr Kok and I are about as long, so that should go well from this position. Mr. Chairman. In the first term, we have already expressed our appreciation for the care and perseverance with which the Secretary of State has worked to get the legislative proposal that allows the entry of a general pension fund to the finish line. In this way, there is room for professional scaling-up of pension management, and that is a good thing. At the same time, we note that the failure to open the apf to compulsory occupational pension funds is a missed opportunity. We welcome the Secretary of State's undertaking that she will make a full effort to come up with additional legislation as soon as possible to make this possible. In February 2016 we will be informed about the timetable. Another point that lives wide in this Chamber is the guarantee of a level playing field. At least that is not the case now in the fiscal sense. We have talked about this adequately. On request, the Secretary of State indicated that he would await the procedure currently pending before the Supreme Court in order to inform the Court of Justice, after ruling, of the further operation in this matter. The Secretary of State also confirmed that it would involve the signals given in this Chamber on the undesirableness of an unequal playing field. All in all, I will therefore advise my group to vote in favour of the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-13.u32	Mr. Chairman. The importance of the general pension fund from the point of view of the participant The cabinet sees that it is also certain for us. The added value of an apf is clear to the SP Group, as I made clear in my first term. I'd like to confirm that again. Thank you for clarifying the participation in the general pension fund. Partly through the intervention of Senator Rinnooy Kan that has become much clearer. The fact that they're looking at it again certainly doesn't hurt. The issue of VAT exemption was also one of the main points for my group in the first term. Thank you for the outline of the forthcoming developments in the case law. I share the view of the previous speakers that it is going to take some time. I very much appreciate the importance of the case law and these developments and the fact that this reflection is, of course, taken into account in the bosom of the cabinet. The fact that the report of this debate is also taken into account does not go far enough for my group. I think that we in the Chamber have a broad support for the view that the differences in VAT treatment are simply undesirable. We actually believe that the VAT exemption is also an important asset for DB schemes. We believe in this House that this can be done within the European framework. Other countries are also of the opinion that it is possible. It's happening. We have therefore signed Senator Oomen's motion for a resolution with conviction. We will support them, too. Finally, the point of the novelle. The Secretary of State has not yet been able to convince the SP of the need for the novelle. As far as we are concerned, the new law announced raises doubts. We will take another look at it when it is written in black and white. Is it necessary to withdraw the amendment which has been accepted with broad support in the House of Representatives, even though the novelle has now been accepted by the House of Representatives? The importance of the apf is paramount and usually the House of Representatives realizes that a novelle is necessary to convince the Upper House. That was not the case in this case, because we had not yet discussed it at all. For us, there is no need for this. As long as a merger only concerns sectoral pension funds which are already made compulsory, nothing will change in the market at all, even if those sector pension funds remain slim in the merger? I just don't see what's physically changing. Can the Secretary of State say again what is fundamentally different? I have not yet heard a convincing answer to this. But we will of course also listen carefully to the answers of the Secretary of State in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-13.u33	Mr. Chairman. I have three brief comments, starting with the Oomen-Oomen motion. We agree that urgent action is needed. If there is a ruling from the circles of the Supreme Court by 31 March, it may be possible to introduce it, but we do attach great importance to urgency. We shall therefore support the motion. In the first term, we spoke in parallel with the Group of the Party of European Socialists, represented by Senator Rinnooy Kan, on Articles 83 and 84. It's been considered to come up with a motion of its own. We've had a little more discussion about that. For short and in order to avoid duplication, the senator of D66 will so directly put this on behalf of 50PLUS. Since we think the bill is a good development, we will support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-13.u34	Mr. Chairman. I start with a quote: "It was the night before Christmas when all through the house not a creation was stirring, not even a mouse." That's actually the feeling I have, looking around me like that. It's getting quiet in The Hague. It's time to finish what we're doing right now. I would like to contribute to this by stating that my group feels very well served by almost all the answers from the Secretary of State. I welcome what she said about retroactivity and about the Wft permit. I hope I can be happy with what she is going to say about VAT. There is one point I would like to underline. That's really high on me. That is the question of the protection of the individual participant who ends up in an apf. I listened carefully to what the Secretary of State said earlier. It is true that I have prepared a motion to emphasise precisely that this interest is felt by many in this Chamber. I do not submit this motion, on the explicit assumption that the Secretary of State will shortly confirm what she has just promised, namely that the follow-up study will aim at a substantial strengthening of that position as laid down in the present legislative proposal. I really believe that this is essential for the social experience of this very important initiative. So we will certainly support this bill. We have high expectations of the apf. But this ingredient is an essential part of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-13.u35	Madam President. The VVD Group would like to thank the Secretary of State for her clear statement on the possibility of material retroactivity in the case of a collective transfer of value by a pension fund to an apf. This retroactive effect is possible, as reported by the State Secretary, subject to the approval of DNB in the individual case. We've clearly heard that. In doing so, we believe that the Secretary of State meets the wish of pension funds for a practical date to enable collective value transfer to the apf.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-13.u36	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the answers to our questions and those of other groups. We said yesterday that this law is a first step for our group in further renewing and broadening the pension system. As far as we are concerned, the criteria of governance, care and the importance of participants must be respected. The Secretary of State has given good answers, which go in the direction we would like to see. Thank you again for that. We will support the motion on VAT. I understand the Secretary of State's gonna take a look at what the Advocate General's gonna do first. This is without prejudice to the substantive position of this Chamber with regard to the desirability of an equal playing field. Perhaps only the solution of the case will be changed, depending on the opinion of the Advocate General. We welcome this bill and will support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-13.u37	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Chamber for its second term. The debate focused even more on the fact that all the spokesmen actually say that the general pension fund is really a step in the right direction. I am pleased with that; that may be very clear. If I listen to the spokesmen, it might be that they and their groups say yes to the general pension fund, to say it very carefully. I would like to stay with your votes, Mr President, to hear that with your own ears. This does not alter the fact that a number of issues still need to be reviewed. Mrs Oomen has asked if the costs of governance really go down. The expectation is yes, but that is precisely why we are taking these costs with us in the interim report in two years' time, so that we can get a good insight into that. Mrs Oomen's motion (34117/34320, paragraph H) on the VAT treatment, which she has also tabled on behalf of a large number of others, is very relevant. In my first speech on behalf of my colleague in the Finance Committee, I have to say that this subject belongs to him; I am sitting here on behalf of the cabinet and I am told what the route of justice is on this point. I continue to welcome the fact that the Advocate General is sending us his findings and that we are looking at how the situation is unfolding in that respect. The thrust of the motion is that we should already commission an independent external investigation and that we should preferably come to the Spring paper with a proposal to repair the problem. That's just a step too excited.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-13.u38	I have also added something to the motion in terrible scribble letters, namely 'taking account of developments in case law'. This means that you no longer need to conduct a separate investigation, but that before you investigate that in the bosom of your cabinet, you know what the First Chamber thinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-13.u39	Look, this is different cookie. If that is the case, if we can wait first for case law and therefore, above all, for the findings of the Advocate General, then that is in line with what the Cabinet considers to be very logical. We, too, are of course looking forward to hearing what the Advocate General is about to say and would like to see which path can be followed. If there's anything left on the spring note, that would be very pleasant. The Chamber understands that I cannot commit to the latter. What do I do with the judgment on this motion? It's a little tricky. I'm gonna zoom in now. It says, as Mrs Oomen has added, that after the conclusion of the Advocate General's findings we can look at how we deal with it. The Supreme Court will do that, but so will the Cabinet. It says in between that we should come to spring note with a proposal. I suggest this motion so that if we could not make it, the First Chamber would not immediately be able to express itself like this. If I may explain the motion in this way, I can leave it to the Chamber. Mrs Oomen also said something about the fact that insurers are getting on with the apf and that insurers are particularly interested in the apf. They then set up a general pension fund with everything that goes with it, including the ftk. Then separate pension funds can make use of it again. I think this is happening very carefully. Mr Kok has stated that he will continue to look at exactly what this is doing in the context of market forces. I'll take note of that. Mr Postema has said that he continues to regret the fact that we are not yet able to honour the compulsory occupational pension funds. But he also said that he is very curious about what the timetable looks like in February. If the cabinet could indeed remain in office until March 2017, then I will do my utmost to get the bill passed through this Chamber before then. I really want to try. Mr Elzinga asked what exactly happened to that amendment and why the novelle was so necessary. When we held the debate in the House of Representatives, of course, I also said to the authors of the amendment and its broad support that I really liked and still think the spirit of the amendment. That is why I would like to come up with additional legislation. However, I was already provided with legal evidence that there were really hooks and eyes on them that could not be tackled immediately and without delay. That has led me to ask the Council of State for information. I thought that information was such that I thought I had to suggest making the novelle. That's been my consideration. I have to say that the House of Representatives has approved the novella. Now it's in front of the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-13.u40	I would like to repeat the question I asked: what happens if two compulsory occupational pension funds want to merge? Then there can be no question of changing the market. They're both compulsory occupational pension funds, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-13.u41	Yes, but if two compulsory occupational pension funds are merged now, that can of course be very good, but that ring-fencing cannot be the issue. That is exactly what this bill is about. That's what I'm gonna do for those occupational pension funds. That is why I would like to see this supplementary legislation. If two compulsory occupational pension funds merge now, it will become one large fund and then you will no longer have those two entities as such. I would like to see participants still able to maintain their own "pension fund as such."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-13.u42	I'll try for the last time. Without that ring-fencing, it could be a problem. The merger can take place at the moment that the coverage levels are a bit traceable, but if not, if they differ, ringfencing is an elegant solution, the House of Representatives found. However, the opinion of the Council of State, which is that it is not a good idea and could therefore face European legal problems, is based on the fact that it is being used to abuse the market. So I don't see that. I'm still not convinced of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-13.u43	I assume that Mr Elzinga has read the opinion of the Council of State on this point. In that sense, it has convinced me, because the two entities'solidarity' and 'obligatory' are really very complicated to merge with the pension fund. That's why I had SEO do that investigation. It comes from the fact that, if you could then apply a pension scheme, you can work with that ring-fencing. That's what I'm looking for. Again, I would like to do so, including for the compulsory occupational pension funds. In short, with your permission, Mr President, I will continue on this path and quickly come up with additional legislation. Mr Rinnooy Kan stressed once again that he felt it was very important to give hands and feet to individual involvement. I would like to propose the following in a very practical and pragmatic way, because we need to look at this very quickly. In the first quarter of 2016, I will come up with the structural review of the subject of "value transfer." In that context, I could also take this point of attention, because then we quickly gave it our hands and feet. I understand that Mr Rinnooy Kan is calling attention to this. I think it's right, too. I am therefore very motivated to provide this with hands and feet as soon as possible. Mr Van de Ven has said that he can live very well with the way in which we now apply retroactive force. Mr Lintmeijer has said that he can get out of his way with the answer. As far as I'm concerned, this is the end of my second term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-13.u44	I have come to deal with the legislative proposals. I'll do that by bill. Would any of the members like to vote on the law 34117, the General Pension Fund Act? That is not the case. Then the bill is accepted. Anybody want a note? That is not the case either. Then the vote on bill 34320, Amendment of the Pension Fund Act. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. The vote will take place shortly, as will the motion that has been tabled. Before we proceed to the vote, I shall suspend the sitting for fifteen minutes. You will all receive a voting list and you will receive all the motions that are there, not only from tonight but also from yesterday. You'll all get that package. You can then consult in the political groups.
