ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u1	The Minister is now moving on to his last block: the future-proof energy supply.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u2	Mr. Chairman. As I have announced, I will first discuss a few different topics. Then I will talk about renewable energy, energy saving, energy innovation and heat and mining, i.e. heat and gas extraction. Then I will go over the things that I have left behind here and there in connection with the introduction of the spokesmen, including a question from Mr Verhoeven on the Dutch Venture Initiative, one of the funds we are working on to improve the financing of business. Finally, I would like to say a few words about the amendments. I'll start with the future energy supply. Maybe first a general remark. Before lunch, we talked about economic growth and everything related to it. In order to sustain this economic growth for the future, it is essential that we have a reliable and affordable energy supply. Reliable and affordable is not enough nowadays; it must also be sustainable. We have agreed on this: by 2050 there must be a fully sustainable energy system in the Netherlands. For lunchtime I also gave some information about the strength of the Dutch economy and the state of the Dutch economy. It might be good to put forward a single point about the reliability and affordability of the Dutch energy supply. Our reliability is actually unique in the world. The reliability of our electricity supply is 99.99%. The reliability of our gas supply is 99.99%. If a company wants to settle somewhere in the world and it comes in a country like the Netherlands, where the crucial energy supply has such a degree of reliability, it is understandable that it has considered this as an important location factor. However, it is also good to know that we can also be satisfied with its affordability, especially that of our electricity. Let me compare the price of electricity in the Netherlands, including taxes, with its price in our neighbour Germany. Households in the Netherlands pay lower prices than those in Germany. SMEs pay lower prices here than in Germany. The industry as a whole pays less than in Germany. Germany is only cheaper for energy-intensive companies, so there is a difference. That difference's gonna go away. Currently, it is estimated that the price difference on wholesale electricity between 2013, i.e. two years ago, and 2023, over eight years, will decrease from €14 to €2 per MWh. So we are already cheaper for the vast majority of the market and for energy-intensive companies we will be almost at the same level as Germany by then. So we have a very reliable, secure supply of electricity and gas in the Netherlands, and it is also good here with its affordability. Mr Bosman expressed his concern. He said that according to the information he has, we may already have an electricity shortage by the year 2019. He was wondering how we're gonna catch that. According to TenneT's report, in 2022, three years after Mr Bosman said, we still have a power surplus for electricity of 1.3 gigawatts. A surplus of 1.3 gigawatts in 2022 is a lot, but we also have a gas production capacity of 6.2 gigawatts in the mothballs, i.e. preserved. 2.5 gigawatts of which can be used immediately. So even if something would go wrong with what we have available, it's all modern, by the way, there's something else modern that can be used quickly. In addition, we have 8.7 gigawatts of interconnection capacity with Germany and Belgium. So we also have a very large plus. You can also look at the Netherlands in the Northwest European context. In doing so, we work together with a number of other countries in a so-called pentalateral forum. That's where we looked at our part of Europe. The security of supply is also good in that regard until 2022. There is a focus on Belgium and France. Both countries may depend partly on neighbouring countries, i.e. France, Belgium, Germany and Spain, for their security of supply during the winter periods. For Belgium, this is mainly about Germany and the Netherlands, because France is less on the agenda. In that way, in the larger context and on our own strength, we have it well for each other. Then the sustainability. I told you, it has to be reliable, affordable and sustainable. For me, sustainability of energy supply is one of the key elements of the policy. I am well aware that this is a crucial task for me, particularly from the coalition agreement. Following its elaboration in the Energy Agreement, I am convinced that by 2020 we must have 14% renewable energy in the Netherlands and that I must make my contribution to achieving this. By 2023, that should be 16%. I'm really focused in my policy on getting that done. I'm about to go into 14% and 16%. From the National Energy Exploratory we can see that as a result of the transformation from fossil to renewable energy we are currently experiencing, the number of jobs in this sector in the Netherlands is growing rapidly. Last week, we had a discussion about the job losses that Eneco and DELTA said would arise as a result of what is happening in the fossil energy world and of the rules in the Law independent grid management. According to both companies, between 1 500 and 2,000 jobs would be lost. I do not know if that is the case, but I do know that the transformation we are going through leads to jobs disappearing in fossil energy. These are added to renewable energy: this year, next year and the following year on balance, 15,000 jobs per year and 80,000 net jobs in the period up to 2020. So that's a big side effect of this transition. If you look at what is happening on certain parts of the fossil energy supply, I also think it would be good if you also see the overall picture of what is coming back to extra employment in this sector, especially in Zeeland, Groningen and the Rotterdam area. Mr Vos also spoke about the 15,000 jobs. So we are talking about 15,000 jobs per year until 2017 and then in a slightly lower number, until we reach 80,000 jobs by 2020. The energy supply in the Netherlands is not all without problems. There are, of course, major challenges. I mainly have them in Groningen, which we have often talked about. We will discuss it again at the end of the year if we look at what is still possible in the future in a responsible way and what needs to be done around it. We have already had a number of intensive discussions on this subject. We'll have it again by the end of the year. I will go into the issue of energy saving in a moment, because that is also an important part. If you want to make it more sustainable, energy saving is crucial. For this purpose, the energy agreement also includes objectives. I shall go into this in more detail. I shall begin with the objectives of 14% and 16%. I have already said that these are crucial to me. I've got to make sure they're made, and I'm sure I'm going to do the same. Mrs Van Tongeren wondered how I would base myself on achieving this 14% renewable energy target by 2020. We came from 4% renewable energy. I think we'll be at 6% by the beginning of next year. That's one and a half times as much. The National Energy Exploratory says we're at 12.4% by 2020. So that's three times as much. I myself have three and a half times the target for 2020. So that's 14%. By the year 2023, it must be four times that, 16%. National energy exploration says we're gonna make it 16%. If what is now in motion, implemented and realized, and we think that is possible, then it becomes 16.1%. The National Energy Exploratory also includes 12.4% for 2020. This means that the objective will not be achieved. There is no choice at all for me, I will achieve the objective. First of all, I've looked at exactly where the bottleneck is. That bottleneck is largely windy on land. We have an ambition to have 6000 megawatts of electricity production wind on land by 2020. According to the National Energy Exploratory, we've reached 5,100 megawatts. So that's not enough. That extra wind-on-land capacity is part of the Empire. These are projects larger than 100 megawatts. That's where I'm on course. I'm gonna do it. The capacity is also part of the province. Those are the smaller projects. There is a risk that there will be delays. However, we are still in the year 2015 and we are talking about the year 2020. I talked to the provinces about that. We've visualized where the problems are. We've agreed that we're both gonna make sure we solve those problems. Some of this can be done by the provinces and some of it must be done by ministries. We're both gonna do our part to make sure we get it done. Secondly, the scheme for local energy production, whereby people in a neighbourhood, in a village or in a few villages together produce electricity together. They will receive a 7.5 cent discount on the energy tax. In consultation with the field, we decided to raise that discount to 9 cents. This has already been incorporated into the budget. We expect 175 new projects to emerge from this in the coming years. They will also contribute significantly to the capacity we have in 2020. Thirdly, together with my colleague Secretary of State Dijksma, I will set up a public-private innovation programme for monofertilisation. This will contribute not only to the management of the agricultural entrepreneurs concerned, but also to sustainability. I'm also going to deepen our experience of geothermal energy. We're already doing a lot about geothermals, but we're going to see how we can further stimulate it, in whatever form, also for ultra-deep geothermals. We're going to involve the greenhouse horticulture industry. This should clarify the possibilities for this in 2016. That is why I am going to implement it, so that it can also contribute to the situation in 2020. I will also bring the SDE+ commitments, which I made last year to 3.5 billion and the year before that to 3.5 billion, to 8 billion for the coming year. In this way, there will also be a lot of additional capacity available. By doing all these things, I am convinced that we are going to achieve the rate of 14 by 2020.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u3	That the Minister has that conviction, I know, and that graces him. It's also what he agreed to in Europe. But is there a bill underneath that? I'm just gonna get one out. Solar energy accounts for 0.008% of total energy consumption in the Netherlands. I am very much in favour of doubling, quadrupling all these local energy corporations, but with this example the Minister will not make any progress. With which it may be possible, my colleague Linda Voortman's motion, which was adopted ten minutes ago, calls on the government to come up with an additional package of measures to ensure that energy savings in the built environment are respected. This motion might give the Minister the opportunity to take major steps with energy savings in the built environment. Does the Minister see possibilities? I know that the motion has only just been adopted, so I understand if there is no precise answer, but that could lead to a large volume.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u4	Mrs Van Tongeren, with this interruption, gives me the opportunity to take another important measure. I will return to energy saving separately later. We need to look at all the possibilities for this. What we can use responsibly will certainly have to be done. What I have not mentioned yet, but which will make an important contribution to that 14%, is a separate subsidy scheme for small heat options: solar boilers, heat pumps and biomass boilers from individuals and companies. We have half a billion available for this up to 2020. We are already going to spend 70 million of this for the first year. I have the expectation that this alone will be good for 0.8 percentage points of additional renewable energy. That comes with the 12.4% and the 0.8%. Then we have that extra 900 MW wind on land. I have already said that next year we are going to make a commitment of 8 billion. Of course, there is a lot to be said about this. I call the monofertilisation, the geothermal, plus the local energy production, where Mrs Van Tongeren has often said positive things. All that together is good for that 14%. If Mrs Van Tongeren wants an indication of the various options in tenths of a percentage, I will send them to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u5	Mrs Van Tongeren would very much like that. In Europe, we have to comply with the system of the European calculation method. Does the Minister agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u6	Yes, I agree with Mrs Van Tongeren, but not with this European calculation method. Calculation methods are beautiful, but it's about the amount of renewable electricity we produce. That's all that matters to me. If there is a European calculation method that indicates that there is a windmill x, while everyone knows from practice, including ECN and PBL, that there is more coming out, then I create my own problem by taking over a wrong method. ECN and PBL also say in the National Energy Exploratory what the real production is. They also used this last year in the NEV 2014. I'm already in enough trouble and I'm not going to unnecessarily create a new problem. I'm just holding on to the actual electricity production. The CBS has told me that Eurostat will advocate changing this European calculation method. In the meantime, I'm sticking to reality. I come to the target for 2023, which we are going to achieve. It is 16.1% renewable energy, mainly generated by the large contribution of wind to the sea. I am very grateful to the Chamber for the speed with which it has acted in dealing with the various laws. Last week, the STROOM Act was passed by the Chamber, so that this law can also be dealt with in time in the Upper Chamber. This also means that tenders for windmills more than 12 miles off the coast of Borsele in Zeeland can get out in time. It means that next year and the following year we can start with the first two of five large wind farms at sea. The fact that all this can be done is partly due to the Court's desire to deal with the necessary legislation at a rapid pace. I would like to say once again that I am very grateful to the Chamber for that. I will contact the First Chamber to try to get the treatment of the law STROOM on the agenda and to deal with it in good time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u7	If the Minister is in contact with the First Chamber and is using his influence there, is he prepared to use that influence to deal with the amendment on the reversal of the burden of proof in Groningen, an amendment which was adopted by this Chamber in April and which has now been provided with information by the Council of State and the corresponding law? I would very much appreciate it if the Minister would use his influence to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u8	This remark by Mr Vos does not show great impatience, because this has been dragging on for some time. The request for information has been with the Council of State for a long time. I therefore understand very well why he wants it to be dealt with quickly, now that the information is available. The House of Representatives has, however, amended a law that dealt with something quite different. I have asked for information on this matter. It is now in the Upper House, but at the same time there is also a regular bill dealt with by the Lower House. That bill is about... I am wrong: that bill has not yet been dealt with by the House of Representatives. I sent that regular bill to the House of Representatives and the Council of State will give its opinion on it very soon. I can well imagine that people in the First Chamber think: "We are getting an opinion from the Council of State on a regular bill. There's information on that amended bill. It is important for us to look at this in conjunction." I'm not gonna send for that. I think it's up to the First Chamber to decide. I want things to go smoothly, but I can understand why the First Chamber wants to look at it in conjunction. I'll leave it to her to decide how she intends to implement it. I should also like to express my reservations towards the House of Representatives on the way in which legislative proposals are dealt with.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u9	Carefulness and speed are concepts that you always have to put in the right perspective. That is one of our tasks, and I understand why the Minister sees it that way. The Minister said that the information is now in the Upper Chamber. Did I get that correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u10	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Where exactly is it? Is it in the first room? I ask that of my staff and they tell me that it is not yet in the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u11	That information is still with the Minister. I would ask him to send that information to the First and Second Chambers as soon as possible, to the First Chamber for examination and to the Second Chamber for notification.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u12	That seems to me to be a reasonable request from Mr Vos. I will give some thought to where it is and what exactly I am going to do when. If the President gives me permission to do so, I shall return to that in the second term. Mrs Van Veldhoven spoke about coal power stations. She said: "These coal-fired power plants receive EUR 3 to 4 billion in subsidies for the up-and-up-and-up of biomass. Biosteam is much more efficient. If we replace it with biosteam for half of it, we will have 750 million euros left." It wants to use this money to reduce storage in the energy account for extra money for energy innovation and for a contribution to the ROAD. These objectives are all sympathetic, but I am not happy that they want to do less at the same time. I don't want to. The large amount of heat that the heat supply places on our energy consumption means that the sustainability and reduction of that heat supply is crucial in order to achieve a fully sustainable energy system. In the heat vision, I indicated that there is a lot of potential in sustainable potential for heat in industry and that there are also many opportunities to meet the heat demand of the energy-intensive industry with biosteam. One time the industry has heat left over and can be used for households, offices and the like, the other time the heat is needed. You can provide for this in a sustainable way by using biomass and biosteam. I'm very interested in that. A separate biomass plant is already being built in a cluster around Delfzijl. At the beginning of this year, the SDE+ scheme opened up a separate category for the production of biosteam with biomass, with wood pallets. In this way, industry is given the opportunity to make operations with wood pallets and steam production more sustainable. I look with the chemical industry and the energy sector at what is happening in Groningen and at how this can be applied elsewhere. I really intend to continue to stimulate biosteam in the coming period, but I do not want to do that instead of co-incineration with biomass. Biomass co-incineration is, according to the European Commission's definition, renewable energy. We have limited this to 25 petajoule in consultation with the parties to the energy agreement. This 25 petajoule accounts for 1.2 percentage points of our target: of the 14%, 1.2 percentage points must be produced by biomass. My ambition is: so, so. I want the biomass to be re- and re-socked and thereby to reach 1.2 percentage points, and I want to stimulate the biosteam to the maximum and to ensure that it is applied.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u13	I am very pleased that the Minister is in favour of exploiting the benefits of biosteam; that is where we find each other. He wants both, but I believe that there are other things that we as a cabinet and chamber should want, namely to invest extra in innovation and energy saving. We also want the CCS project. I understand the Minister doesn't want to break the energy agreement. But if he sees, looking at the shorter period, that there is now an opportunity to go ahead with more biosteam, would he not want to think together with the partners about whether this could be a more detailed explanation of the agreements within the energy agreement? The Minister knows how big the gap in energy saving is. Biosteam is more efficient and saves money in the short term, allowing us to draw hard on the other objectives.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u14	I have been told, among other things, by Mrs Van Veldhoven that the 14% target for 2020 is not going well. She thinks that I should achieve that objective, and she urges me to do so in every way possible. Now she says: an important part of the 14% is that 1.2%, but just calm down and try to make a difference. I'm not in the mood for that, because I'm gonna take a risk. I've got to get that 14%. The co-incineration of biomass in coal-fired power stations should contribute to this. So I need that. And if there are any other options, I'm gonna take advantage of them, too. Perhaps by 2020 we will see Mrs Van Veldhoven, and perhaps I will also say that we have indeed achieved more than that 14%. We'll both be happy about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u15	Of course, I can only agree with the latter. I would certainly be pleased with that, but so would the Minister, because he was still aiming for 16% renewable energy in the coalition agreement. I imagine he still sees that as a beckoning perspective. If industry replaces gas with biomass and starts working with biosteam, this will contribute to the amount of renewable energy. So it is not the case that you are abandoning the renewable energy objective. No, you're going to achieve this more efficiently. We are therefore leaving money for that other big gap in the energy agreement, which is half our energy saving objective. That is why I ask the Minister once again whether he would like to see whether, in the short term, perhaps in the phase, perhaps in another way, there is an opportunity to bring those other objectives closer too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u16	I am very prepared to go so far as to discuss energy saving. I'm gonna do that anyway. I'm also willing to stimulate biosteam. I would like to take advantage of the opportunities I see for this, and I am very active in doing so. However, I am not prepared to do any less with biomass co-incineration. We have ten coal plants in the Netherlands. The five oldest power stations are closed down and five modern power stations remain. Of those five plants, two were opened this year. One power plant still needs to be opened. We intend to connect two of these plants with a project for storing CO2 in an empty field in the North Sea, the ROAD project. Mrs Van Veldhoven has already spoken about this. We also intend to use the remaining modern coal plants to further and mostly achieve that 1.2 percentage point of that 14% by 2020. I really don't want to take any chances on that point. If I get more than that 14%, I'm okay with it. If I make it less, it's not good. The 14% is the lower limit for me. I really don't want to take any chances with that. I'll be right back on energy saving. Mrs van Veldhoven throws large sums of money when she talks about coal power stations. I heard her say that we would spend 5 billion on coal plants. I don't know where that amount comes from. I only know that a few years ago it was decided at some point to introduce a coal tax. It was supposed to make 189 million a year. This coal tax is now being released, in accordance with the agreement we made in the Energy Agreement with 47 parties. That 189 million euros a year will therefore lapse. This was also one of the considerations for electricity producers to participate in the energy agreement. That has been important. So the relationship between 5 billion and 189 million escapes me. I believe that we have had the proceeds of the coal tax for about two years. We are going to miss them now, but we have made that choice in the context of the energy agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u17	Your fourth interruption, Mrs Van Veldhoven.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u18	No, the Minister has a big question. He wants to know where the amount comes from. I just want to clarify where the figures come from.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u19	Short.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u20	The 5 billion is indeed made up of the coal tax on the duration of the energy agreement, which means that I am well above 1 billion, but let me finish it at 1 billion. In addition, the 3 to 4 billion of biomass in coal-fired power stations is being stubbed up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u21	Thanks for the explanation. A revenue of EUR 189 million a year in coal tax is going down, but on the other hand the five oldest coal plants are being closed down. According to the European Commission, biomass is renewable energy. We are the only country in Europe that has set sustainability criteria for this. We are the only country in the world that has put in place a definitive system of control of this. I therefore believe that we are dealing with this in a very responsible way. I come now to the issue of energy saving. Mrs Schouten, Mrs Van Tongeren, Mrs Van Veldhoven and Mr Vos spoke about the energy saving objectives contained in the energy agreement. The original, most important objective that we had in the European Energy Efficiency Directive, which has also been implemented by the Netherlands, is that every year we should achieve 1.1% energy savings in our country. In the energy agreement, we increased this by 0.4%. This means that 1.5% additional energy savings are to be achieved every year. If you translate this according to the system of the European directive, 480 petajoule of energy savings should be achieved cumulatively over the period from 2014 to 2020. In the National Energy Exploratory we can read that a cumulative 540 petajoule is expected to be realized, not 480 but 540 petajoule. That's an overrun of 60 petajoules. Moreover, it is said that we are going to make it 1.5%. Europe is asking for 1.1%, but we are achieving 1.5%, even by exceeding the European system. The Energy Agreement also states that a number of measures included in the Energy Agreement are expected to generate 100 petajoules of additional energy savings by 2020. In the meantime, we have learned from the National Energy Exploratory that this is not the current expectation. At present, measures under the Energy Agreement are expected to yield 55 petajoule. That is where we have a problem. That problem needs to be solved. We have a committee of assurance for this, which has been set up by the Economic and Social Committee and is headed by Mr Nijpels. All 47 parties to the Energy Agreement are involved. That is where we shall be discussing this problem. We need to look at what exactly is happening with the energy agreement measures. Which ones do they count, which ones don't? Is that all reasonable? We also need to look at whether we can make the most of these measures and whether some extras are possible or necessary. I am thinking, for example, of an additional financial incentive for energy saving in energy-intensive industries. I am also thinking of making energy saving more enforceable in the built environment through the energy suppliers. You can see that this is happening in other countries, with varying success, but still with success in majority. It would also be possible for energy suppliers to be given an incentive to support homeowners and the services sector in taking energy-saving measures. Those things may also be discussed in the committee's consultation on the energy agreement, but I would just like to say to the Chamber that the picture of energy saving is not as bleak as some people think. For example, the industry itself reports that it is making 2% savings per year as a whole. In the metal industry, it is said that it already achieves 3% a year. So we're in the middle of energy saving. Mr Vos just mentioned that. This will have to be our focus in the years to come. As a means of exerting pressure, we also have the agreement on the extra 100 petajoules that we made in the energy agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u22	Does the Minister still have the ambition to achieve additional 100 petajoules of energy savings?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u23	Yes, I have the ambition to stick to the energy agreement, including this one.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u24	In the short term, then, there is still a lot to be done, including in industry. That is what the National Energy Exploratory notes, and that is what the Minister himself stated. As I know, agreements will soon be agreed with industry again. Does the Minister intend to make even stricter agreements in these agreements on how we can comply with the conditions of the energy agreement, including in the field of industry?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u25	Yeah, that's definitely discussable. In any case, we have the framework ready for the one-on-one agreements that we want to conclude with the large, energy-intensive industries. The conversations with these companies are going on. I'll see what can reasonably be contributed. We must realise that I can never have one thing in mind and then realize it with blinders. When I deal with Tata in IJmuiden, the story is not only energy saving, but also his competitive position. That company, where many thousands of people work, must compete on the world market. I must ensure that employment is maintained. This means that we have to consider how energy savings can also be a positive thing for the company, what is reasonably possible, how this can be done and what the government can possibly contribute to it. All these things will come into view. My intention is now twofold. Part of it is to indicate what is already happening about energy saving, how important it is, where more needs to be done and how we are trying to achieve it. Mr Vos spoke about electric cars. He said that in 25 years the Netherlands should be made a country where cars drive electric. He even mentioned self-driving electric cars. When I think about how we were in the car 25 years ago and how we are in the car now, the differences, apart from the navigation system and air conditioning, are still limited. But it's all going much faster, so maybe the image of self-driving electric cars that Mr Vos has in mind will be real in five years' time. At least he's not the only one who has that idea. In the Netherlands, we have already taken initiatives in this area in order to be able to drive self-propelled cars on public roads. We have already, with the necessary success, made agreements to stimulate electric cars in the Netherlands. We also see in the world around us that we are not alone in doing so. The German Environment Minister said that the German government wants to meet the target of 1 million electric cars by 2020. Right now they've got 10,000, so they've got something to do there. But the ambition is definitely there. It is important for Germany to do so. This also has an impact on the Netherlands. Mr Uchiyamada, the boss of Toyota, Japan's largest automobile group, and almost as large as Volkswagen, has said that we are losing the planet faster than the sustainable innovations are being implemented. He says it has to be better. He says that the climate issue is of such a large order that a vision is needed for the next 20, 30 years. Of course, that is in line with what Mr Vos says: in 25 years' time the standard, the standard, electric cars must be. We have included in the energy agreement that only zero-emission cars will be sold in 2035 in 20 years' time. We now believe that these will be electric cars, but they can also be cars with a fuel cell, hydrogen cars. If from the year 2035 you only sell electric at least zero emission cars, it goes very quickly. At the moment, the ambition is that by 2050 the total fleet will be made up of zero-emission cars. However, it is quite conceivable that once that process has started, it will be faster and that Mr Vos' ambition will become a reality in 25 years' time. The Cabinet is doing all it takes. I think that Mr Vos has seen the measures we have all taken to that end, but otherwise I would be happy to go through them again with him and the rest of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u26	I think that the views of the cabinet, of the minister, and of the Labour Party are very similar. It is also of course nice to hear that the Netherlands is ahead in Europe. It is often said that we do not lead the way; it is sometimes good to say that we are really the frontrunner in Europe on this point. For example, there are four times as many electric cars in absolute terms as in Germany. The Minister speaks of 'zero emission'; that is, of course, much better than talking about 'electric cars', because you also have green gas and hydrogen cars. Yesterday, a large oil and gas company announced that there will be a network that will allow motorists throughout Germany to refuel hydrogen. It was announced that we can also look forward to such plans in the Netherlands. I wonder if the cabinet will take that. I wonder more about how these steps have been concretely completed until 2035 or I want to get rid of the exact year 2040. That does not seem clear to me. We can also talk about this later in an AO on the basis of a letter from the cabinet, but I would be very pleased to go further into this with the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u27	I think that this is such an important development and that this development also requires so much that it is good to discuss it separately with the Chamber. We have already taken a large number of measures, for example in the area of fiscal policy. There is also European policy, we have our own environmental policy, we have six green deals and there are campaigns going on in this area. You know I made arrangements with Elon Musk of Tesla. So I think it would be very useful, together with Mrs Mansveld, my colleague from Infrastructure and the Environment, to present the various things that are going to play and play, the future perspective and the timetable for that, also in an international context, and to exchange views with the Chamber. I shall therefore do as Mr Vos wishes. Mr Dijkgraaf asked me whether the policy on renewable energy is not too short-term. In particular, he asked for attention to be paid to the innovation budget and to how we can achieve the sustainability challenge in the long term. Long-term sustainability requires innovation. We are still dealing with the situation in which we want to replace the capacity of fossil energy, which we have built over the last few centuries and which we want to get rid of, with sustainable capacity. If your old capacity is out of use, you suffer quarterly losses and something new needs to be built up in which you have to invest a lot. If you can achieve with innovation that you need to invest less because you can do smart, new things and find new solutions, that's much better. That is why we have a separate top sector that focuses entirely on this energy and which also includes resources for innovation. That is why we keep part of the SDE+ money separate and put it into innovation. And that's why, in the activities that we finance under the SDE+ scheme, we allow pilot settings, including for windmills, to see how we can stimulate the whole process of innovation and cost reduction. Innovation is crucial here. The resources I have at the moment, I believe, are the resources I need. If I get the impression that there is too little budget somewhere and that there is more to it, I will certainly not fail to report to the Chamber, but at the moment, in terms of innovation in the energy sector, I can get rid of the existing subsidy schemes, with the way we apply the SDE+ scheme and with what is available at European level for this purpose. That was my answer to Mr Dijkgraaf's question. Mrs Van Veldhoven, Mrs Mulder and Mr Vos have drawn attention to ECN. The first two spokesmen asked me if I could use some money from the SDE+ scheme for the year 2016 for ECN. ECN is one of our TO2 institutions and is therefore aimed at doing applied scientific research and ensuring that we as a society can benefit from its results. It is clear that the cuts that are being made across the board at TO2 institutions are hurting. Those institutions need to adapt. They all have to, including the ECN. Moreover, as far as the ECN is concerned, I think it is time to take a closer look at the three important functions it performs. The ECN has an important role in what we do in the field of nuclear energy, including with NRG, an ECN-related company dealing with this issue in Petten. In addition, the ECN conducts policy studies, e.g. the NEV, together with the Planning Office for the Environment. The ECN also deals with renewable energy, just like TNO and others. I think it is good to look at those three different functions of the ECN, and how those functions can best be filled in for the future. I intend to do that in the year 2016. Actually, we're already working on that. While we are working on this, we must avoid accidents at the ECN. This means that the ECN must fulfil the normal task that the other TO2 institutions must also fulfil. A number of things need to be changed and cheaper there and more external money must be attracted, but I cannot have anything on top of that that will cause the ECN to get into even more trouble. So I'll take a good look at that. Together with the ECN and others that I might bring in for analysis, I will look into how we can keep things going in a responsible way for the year 2016, so that we can finally take decisions on the longer term in the context of the 2017 budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u28	Is the Minister saying that forced dismissals for 2016 are therefore excluded in the North Holland Heads of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u29	No. Depends on how the company fills that out. This is happening with all TO2 institutions, including at TNO. A reduction in staff has also been announced there. It is not excluded that this will also require redundancies. I don't know how it's gonna turn out with the ECN. It is primarily up to the management of the company itself to implement this. So I can't guarantee that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u30	Can the Minister guarantee that knowledge will be preserved at the ECN and that, in principle, employment in North Holland and the North Holland Head will remain?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u31	It is important, however, to preserve the necessary knowledge. That is what decisions will have to be taken. Should the various aspects of nuclear, policy and renewable energy be taken together, or can it be taken separately or possibly in another context? We're gonna have to look into that. I would not like to see, as a result of the preparatory work that we are going to do, the flow of knowledge that we want to preserve for the future. We will therefore have to look at how we can create a situation for 2016 in which, on the one hand, the necessary reversals and cuts are realised and, on the other hand, no accidents occur in anticipation of what we are going to decide for 2017.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u32	Mr President,......................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u33	You've been there twice, Mrs. Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u34	Could I perhaps ask a small supplementary question on this subject?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u35	After your next interruption. It's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u36	Then I'll wait.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u37	Then wait a minute. Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u38	Mr Bosman and Mr Dijkgraaf have asked me a question about thorium. I notice that many Members of Parliament are interested in this. The subject has been discussed in depth between the spokesmen in the Chamber, and that is a good thing, because it is an important subject. Thorium has advantages over uranium as a fuel. Thorium produces less waste. And that waste remains radioactive over a shorter period compared to uranium. That's important, too. In addition, thorium is much more present than the raw material needed to produce nuclear energy through uranium. Those are advantages. On the other hand, thorium can only be used meaningfully in combination with enriched uranium. To date, there is no other technique than to process it in combination. Moreover, the infrastructure for the large-scale production of thorium is not yet in place. We're still working on basic research. In the process of reprocessing thorium releases more radiation than uranium fuel, as far as we can see now, so it is not that thorium is going to solve all the problems and that we can trust that it will all work out. There are also things that need to be controlled. We have to deal with the risks that need to be taken in a sensible way. It's a long-term thing. The research into the use of thorium in the so-called molten salt reactors, the molten salt fast reactors, is still at its fundamental stage. The Netherlands contributes to this. We do that in two ways. At the NRG in Petten, which I just talked about, linked to ECN, a contribution to that fundamental research can be made. TU Delft is also working on this, also in the framework of Horizon 2020, from which proper funding is received. I support that, too. A total of 1.6 million has been allocated to this policy area. So there is an international development going on, which the Netherlands is contributing to. It is interesting for the long term, but in the short term there is no immediate result to be expected. I think that what we are contributing to this fundamental research in the short term is a reasonable effort at international level.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u39	That's good to hear. We note that the discussions are mainly about sustainability, and that is related to a number of criteria, which unfortunately do not include nuclear energy. This may mean that the future discussions on CO reduction, improvements related to climate goals and that kind of thing will not include thorium. I am not concerned that this is a silver bullet, but that we do not leave things out in the discussion about all the potential possibilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u40	I agree with Mr Bosman that you can discuss whether nuclear energy could not have made a very useful contribution to solving the CO problem. Those are trade-offs that have been made. I agree with Mr Bosman that such a balance must be made again in the future with regard to thorium and that it may fall the other way. In advance, we should not distance ourselves from thorium development, so I support international research and the contributions made by TU Delft and ECN/NRG. In substance, I feel the same way as Mr Bosman. The Chamber and I have talked about warmth a number of times. In fact, the Chamber and I do not disagree on this. What we are doing now is using gas to produce heat, while heat can also be extracted from the earth, from the waste incineration or from the industry. It is very wise not to continue making this detour, but to move more towards the immediate use of available heat. We absolutely have to do that. I've also submitted to the Chamber a heat vision that includes that. We have a Heat Act, but together we have come to the conclusion that it is not optimal. I'm preparing a new heat bill. With the heat vision and the heat bill, we're getting a long way. I am very pleased that there are already many initiatives in this area. There are whole districts that are no longer connected to gas, but only to heat and electricity. I think that's a good development. I am very pleased with the ambition in Rotterdam and its surroundings to realize what is in the so-called Cluster West's heat potential. I am also talking about this intensively with the parties involved. I'd love it if we could do that. I don't keep things waiting for each other, but I'm working on everything at the same time: working out that heat vision, creating a new Heat Act and looking at how we can move forward with concrete plans. I think there's a lot of potential in heat. In any case, I will ensure that the full review of the Heat Act will be with the Chamber by the end of 2016. In the energy report that will be issued at the end of this year, I will give my view on the longer term potential of heat. I will also mention the options for taking short-term action in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u41	Can we move quickly to a term of office? Are you finishing up yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u42	Mr President, I have a lot of amendments to deal with. I have a few other issues to deal with, but the end is in sight.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u43	Very good. That's noted.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u44	I will not go into detail about the gas extraction in Groningen. The spokesmen didn't do that either. At the end of the year, we will discuss this in detail. One point remains: in the 2016 budget, we have assumed a gas extraction in Groningen of 33 billion m. However, whoever manages the network, GTS, says that in a cold winter we have 31 billion m to do. I think that's very important information. I will involve them in the results of the two studies that are still under way. At the end of this year we will decide what we will do with gas extraction in Groningen from next year on. We will then see if the maximum of 31 billion m is still relevant. It is possible that the choice will be to sit at a lower level and that we will increase a certain risk of additional gas extraction in certain cold years. It is also possible that we will work variablely in the production of gas from Groningen anyway, in addition to the gas we have extracted from abroad. It seems to me to be very sensible to bring all the things involved into decision-making and to take account of the budgetary consequences that result from it. I think that would be better than doing something now and doing something later. Then it gets a little messy, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u45	To what extent is fracking already standard in the extraction plans of the NAM? Has this been explicitly authorised, in Groningen and in the rest of the Netherlands? Or is this just something that came into being?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u46	Fracken is part of the gas extraction technique. In the case of shale gas, the extraction is all about fracking. The natural gas we extract from relatively porous rocks in Groningen comes from that rock, but shale is a very solid rock. If you want to take out the gas that's in there, you have to crack that rock and then the gas comes out. In the way of winning gas we use in the Netherlands, the fracking technique is already used to a limited extent. It has been for a long time, and it will continue to be. What exactly is the issue with the permits, I am not prepared to do so, but I would like to give you an insight into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u47	I would like to thank the Minister for his commitment in this area. What I would very much like to involve in this is a request from the government to the SodM to investigate the 220 times that has already been fracked. What are the effects of this? We're about to deal with the new Mining Act. If fracking is already existing practice, we would very much like to know if this has been really safe in recent years. Is there any record of that? Residents are very concerned about this technique. Especially in Saaksum, it's on the roll. Residents are really very worried. I would like to see the facts and figures showing that there should be no such concern. Otherwise, we're just gonna have to do some research. I think we should put security first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u48	We have the SodM to supervise that. It does, and it does at the moment. The rules in force are monitored by the SodM, and now also with regard to the application of the frack technique. If Mrs Mulder says that she wants to get an idea of the application of fracking, its possible consequences and its assessment, I will make that clear to the Court at a time appropriate for decision-making.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u49	I welcome these answers to the questions about fracking. I come up with an issue on which the Minister and I have often had an exchange of views. Maybe my questions are still unclear, but I haven't gotten an answer yet. And I warn the President: if necessary, I will use two interruptions for this. I can see the Minister disappearing right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u50	He thinks: with two interruptions I can go get some coffee.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u51	It's about gross and net gas extraction in Groningen. The gas field responds to what's being extracted grossly. Whether it's water, condensate, garbage or gas, the more volume out, the more chance of earthquakes; we all agree on that now. I'm trying to track all the numbers we get, find out what's going on. I have repeatedly asked whether the Chamber can get an overview of the difference between what comes out of the field in a given year and what is offered net is sold abroad and so on. I always get bits and pieces. The Minister's letter of 1 July contains a number of points: for example, the two different units of account are explained and it is said that it only makes a small difference. In 2015, for example, 30 billion cubic metres would have been removed, because gas is also extracted from Norg. But the gas from Norg is also coming from the Groningen field. When was that taken out of the Groningen field? And in 2016, for example, we reach 31 billion. Is there perhaps 3 billion to be taken out of the field that is being stopped in Norg, which in turn does not count for the 31 billion? And what happens to the mess, the water, the dirt and everything else that comes up with it and does have an effect? So can we get an overview of this? I'd be happy to sign the schematic I'd like to have this in. So I'm talking about gross and net per year, and what goes in and out of Norg.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u52	I will put these questions to Mrs Van Tongeren together with her later on. I will then do my best to provide these questions with an answer through my information to the Chamber as a whole.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u53	Well, that went very smoothly. My second question concerns the ten-year ceiling. The Minister and I have also talked about this on a regular basis. If I understand correctly, the current ten-year ceiling is still the official legal basis for gas extraction. The province of Groningen has made an attempt to set the extraction figures next to that ceiling. Her conclusion is that we're more or less slippery with the authorised ceiling. Is that right? Are we far below it or are we above it? What's going on right now, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u54	It's like Mrs. Van Tongeren says. By the way, the ten-year ceiling is going down. As soon as the Law STROOM, adopted by the Chamber last week, enters into force, that ten-year standard will cease to apply. At present, the ten-year ceiling still applies, for the period from 2006 to 2015. The ceiling is 425 billion m. It is estimated that 410 billion m will be used. So we're gonna stay under it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u55	That's very nice to hear. Do you think this could be on a piece of paper so I can count on it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u56	No, very specific things I'm going to share with the Chamber, I'm not going to write it down again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u57	This was indeed a very concrete answer, I admit. And in relation to the other answer is that including the use of the NAM and including what is in Norg?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u58	We have a calculation method for that ceiling. It has been established how high that ceiling is and what it is valid for. I told you, the ceiling is 425 and we're at 410. We're not messing with that math system, so we just keep it that way. But with all due respect to Mrs Van Tongeren, I do say that it is a discussion from the past, because the STROOM Act has now made this unnecessary. In addition, ten, eight, five years ago we made maximum use of the small fields and made relatively little use of Groningen. When the small fields were almost empty, more was taken from Groningen. At the moment, those little fields are still almost empty. That does not come out very much anymore and we are also reducing the extraction in Groningen. The effect of all this is that in two years, between 2013 and 2015, we have a reduction in our natural gas revenues of 8.5 billion euros a year, partly due to a reduction in gas prices. This discussion is interesting, but it is of the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u59	I am pleased with these answers and will study them. My last question to Groninger concerns the serious unrest about evacuations, evacuations that would or would not be carried out on the basis of the NAM. Maybe they're Indian stories, maybe they're not. If residents don't want that, it shouldn't affect their privacy, but is there any way that this becomes clear? After all, people must not think that they are being evacuated anywhere because they cannot check which premises are being demolished, where people are being evacuated and how much is being evacuated. I understand that sometimes this will only be possible at the level of a municipality, because otherwise it is too much traceable to families, but would the Minister like to see how we can do that? As far as I am concerned, this is also happening fairly quickly, because, as the Minister probably does, I am getting huge amounts of alarming e-mails saying that, for example, twenty more families are being evacuated. But if I check that, I won't find 20. That doesn't help the peace and trust in the province.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u60	Evacuating the word sounds rather ominous. In Groningen many houses need to be strengthened. A large number of bottlenecks from the past few years must also be resolved before the end of the year. In exactly how many cases that have led to people having to leave their homes temporarily or not being offered another house, I am not ready at the moment, but I am very willing to collect that information and communicate it to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u61	Very well, thank you. Mrs. Van Tongeren, you'd like to place a third interruption? It's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u62	It's not just a planned move, because I still understand temporary accommodation. It also happens that a building is first strengthened and one day later it is said that it is actually unsafe and one has to get out. For such a family, no re-housing has been found. As soon as people live elsewhere, buildings are demolished. There's a lot of stories going around. Some will be right, some won't. I think it will help greatly to dampen the unrest when the real numbers come on the table, so that every six months, or at whatever time unit, we know how many houses have been demolished, how many people live elsewhere and whether there have been emergency evacuations. When people have the real numbers, you don't get a huge talking circuit with unrest, but it's also clear that it's a pretty big problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u63	I think it would be wise to let the information about Groningen, as far as that does not affect people's privacy, be public. Moreover, it is being asked by Mrs Van Tongeren, so I will try to continue with her question, which she has extended with her third interruption on this point. I will try to provide an adequate answer to this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u64	Mr. Chairman. Do you mind if I interrupt sometime?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u65	All right, then.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u66	For fun. It's only once.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u67	Your interruptions are always for fun.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u68	Yes. The Minister began his speech in a cheerful mood. Although there are 8 billion less natural gas benefits, there seems to be a growth outlook that is not too bad. He looked at me with a look: I'm a wizard. Maybe he is. I also find it interesting to see all aspects of energy coming through now. That is what this debate is for. That also shows how complex it is. The Minister intends to present a long-term energy vision later this year. I refer to the issues that are particularly important in the north, such as gas extraction, which can hopefully be reduced because the gas is almost on it and because the gas price is low, the social resistance to wind on land in parts of Groningen and Drenthe and the fact that you have quite a lot of poorly isolated homes and in any case relatively high energy bills because you have little urban environment. As a result, the energy bills in the eastern part of the country are a few hundred euros a year higher. I also mention the ambition to be an energy valley. Would that be a reason for the Minister to outline in that vision an integral perspective for those three northern provinces, in which all these matters are addressed? Would that have any added value over what he was already planning?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u69	According to Mr Smaling, I am acting like a sorcerer who is leading the economy in the right direction. That is absolutely not the case. The economy is managed by business and the people who work in it, the entrepreneurs and the workers. Important support is provided from the public sector and from the research sector. Besides, I don't know who looks more like a wizard when he's dressed up, Mr. Smaling or me. For the time being, I can imagine a little more from Mr Smaling. We'll try it out at carnival sometime. The long-term vision is reflected in the energy report presented to the Chamber at the end of the year. Mr Smaling asked for an integral perspective for the three northern provinces. I'm not really going to make that. We have put the provinces at the forefront of economic development. The provinces are making it happen. That goes for Drenthe, Friesland and Groningen. It's their job. If there are bottlenecks, we support it. I think that there are bottlenecks in Groningen in particular, but there are also many positive points. A lot of money is being invested because of what has to be done, also for compensation. In addition, we are also strengthening the chemical industry there. We have made available separate funds for the strengthening of economic structures. I would therefore like to leave it to what we have done so far on that point. I would like to leave it at the forefront of the provinces. So I do not respond positively to the question about the outline of an integral perspective for the three northern provinces.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u70	"Don't react positively" is that the same thing as reacting negatively? I was recently in the northern provinces. It was then about the phosphate rights in the dairy farming that are coming. The three provinces often act together if there is a shared interest. I can imagine that is also the case here. That's what happens in the Chamber. Some groups are hitting the new coal power station in the Eemsmond. Then we talk again about the parks that are intended in the peat colonies. Then we are back on the gas extraction, then again on Terschelling or near the small fields. It seems to me, but it is simply a suggestion that fits in with a debate like this, that it would not be so crazy for the people in that area and also for the way in which we are discussing it, to have a vision for the future of renewable energy for that north. That should mean a little more than the sum of the parts, if I may put it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u71	I see it as my task to have a vision for the future of renewable energy for the Netherlands as a whole. All provinces are involved, including the three northern provinces. Nor should we suggest that the windmills fall from the sky there. Nor do I believe that Mr Smaling is aware of this. In Groningen and Drenthe the province simply indicated where windmills could be located. Then the initiators came within that perspective of the province with proposals. The province then applies the spatial planning procedures. It all goes by the book in an organised way in a multiannual perspective. We shouldn't suggest that there's only a little work done. No, it's all planned. I want to develop a sustainable energy vision for the country as a whole. I'm working on that. I leave the economic lead for the provincial energy within the national framework of the provinces. If provinces go into their regional economy, whether jointly or not, and ask for consultation with me and input from me, I am prepared to do so. This also applies in this case. Should there be a request from the three northern provinces on this point, we will consider, respecting them and my powers, how we can contribute to this from the state. Mrs Van Tongeren and Mrs Mulder asked me about the progress of strengthening the 3,000 homes in Groningen and about the link between strengthening and sustainability. I do not want to talk about words, but I have always said that I am ensuring that the Safe Living Centre builds up the capacity to strengthen 3,000 homes this year. We have independently monitored the centre. It comes with interim reports that are assessed by independent supervision, sent to me and then sent to the Chamber. At such a subsequent report, which will come soon, we can talk about the state of play. We have to realise that there are a number of special things involved here. In the case of these 3,000 homes, I am very pleased to see how this can be combined with sustainability, especially in the direction of the zero-on-the-meter housing regularly promoted by Mr Vos. These are homes, in this case older rental houses, which are equipped with an industrially produced shell. In one day, that skin will be around the house. The whole house is isolated with that. There's new facilities in that shell. The transport of heat is regulated via the shell. There will be new bathrooms and kitchens in the houses. They are lifted to a higher level in one go. It's a major procedure in the area. So that's what the people who live in those houses need to be talked about. We have made a plan to set up 150 of these houses first. This will lead to industrial production. Then 1,500 homes will have to follow. There is a need for consultation with the people, but there is also a need to maintain as much employment as possible in the north. I say that there is industrial production, but it is also being considered how to involve employment in the area in a responsible way. That kind of thing's all being looked at. Looking at that and that consultation is slowing down. I estimate that will be reflected in the reports that the Chamber will receive. I'll make sure that capacity is there. I'm fully committed to carrying out the reinforcements. I like to do this in a structural, sustainable way, as we are doing now with the zero-on-the-meter houses. We will look at how this will work in the coming quarters through the reports.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u72	If I understand the Minister correctly, the National Coordinator Groningen will take the sustainability of the homes with it in strengthening the homes. I hear from the region that it is often stuck on the last €20,000 or €30,000 needed for that skin. Does the Minister recognize that image? Is the Minister prepared to look, together with the region, at solutions to this problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u73	We also need to look at the shrinkage. We should not invest in houses that we will no longer need. We must also avoid oversubsidisation. We need to strengthen houses and I think we've taken a big step by working towards zero-on-the-meter houses. We must also establish the bill for the NAM in a reasonable way and through the NAM for the Empire for the earthquake problem, because it cannot be that everything is put on the account of the NAM/The Empire. The owners of the homes, the housing corporations and those who rent the houses must also make a reasonable contribution. I therefore do not want to make a commitment at the moment for additional amounts. It is up to the National Coordinator to develop plans for this. The National Coordinator will present its five-year plan before the end of the year. I would also point out that he is prepared to provide information on this multiannual programme. That multiannual programme will therefore also be able to provide more clarity on this issue by the end of this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u74	The Minister recognizes the problem and, by the end of the year, the National Coordinator will outline a solution that will be possible. Can I also say that the Minister is not automatically adding up money? Is that how I understand him?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u75	We need to set up this reinforcement in such a way that it has added value. I think the zero-on-the-meter houses are a very nice thing. It is also very good that we in Groningen seize the opportunity to start industrial production. We will also have to consider whether we can apply it on a larger scale elsewhere in the country. In the context of the energy saving exercise, we will have to further consider whether it can be moved to residential properties. I am ambitious about the zero-on-the-meter house, but at the same time I am not prepared to draw more costs than is reasonable. In Groningen we go far with the reimbursement of costs and the investment, but I do not want to go beyond what is reasonable. What is or is not reasonable could be demonstrated by the review in the multiannual programme that we will receive before the end of the year of the National Coordinator.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u76	Mr President, my last interruption. A long time ago, a large number of parties were working to save ALDEL's employment. This involved 600 employees. Isn't that right? I see the chairman shaking no.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u77	My head's a little loose sometimes. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u78	I almost thought you'd just have to shake no every once in a while. I now read that Shell and Exxon are sticking to exactly the same profit target and that they are thus ignoring all the misery and hassle in Groningen. Furthermore, the NAM has to make substantial cuts, because it partly drops there. Moreover, it mainly falls down on the sub-contractors in the region. According to reports, that's about 2,000. The Minister writes in the written answer to my questions about this: those people will soon be able to get to work on restoring and building these houses. Why was that argument not valid for ALDEL, where the number of jobs was smaller? I know the Minister cannot force it, but is he prepared to look with Shell and Exxon to see if it is absolutely necessary for these companies to stick to the same profit target? The Ministry is often in contact with Shell and perhaps one can point out in those talks that it is at the expense of employment in the North. After all, there is a lot going on in that province.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u79	I can't estimate the relationship with the profit target. It is not clear to me at the moment either. In 2013, we made 54 billion m. Right now, we're pulling out 30 billion m plus 3 billion in Norg. Furthermore, we are considering whether we can move on to another system next year, which may result in even less natural gas being extracted. It seems logical to me that it has human consequences when a large company like NAM shrinks its activities. That seems inevitable to me. When Mr Smaling spoke about Eneco and DELTA, I said that we need to realise that fossil energy is becoming less. Sustainable energy, on the other hand, is becoming a bit more. On balance, 15 000 additional jobs per year will be added to this sector. In the period up to 2020, that will be 80,000 jobs. Those extra jobs are going to be in the north, too. Large-scale activities are taking place there, for example, with regard to the installation and maintenance of windmills at sea. So much for my response to what Mrs Van Tongeren has just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u80	I am pleased that the Minister supports the position that GroenLinks has been expressing for years, namely that employment needs to be found mainly in the clean energy sector. One of the things the minister said was that the NAM will soon reduce its activities. Well, there may be less gas coming out, but the activities will be increased sooner. One of the sectors in which the NAM is going to stop less money is maintenance. GroenLinks is worried about that. We must not get into situations there like in Schoonebeek, with leaking pipes, or other incidents in that area. The amount of activity required if you gain less gas in difficult circumstances will not be reduced. This is only, as it is also reported, pressure from Shell and Exxon on the NAM. The NAM brings it out like this, so I'm assuming this is true. This also costs employment. I would much rather have people working in clean energy, but now that we have gas extraction, I would like to keep up the jobs in safety and maintenance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u81	I also like to keep the safety and maintenance up to date. The State surveillance of the Mines will also monitor this. We have to face the fact that such a company's activities are shrinking if we constantly press for less gas to be produced for very good reasons, and as a result there is also less employment. We can't get around that fact. So we need to see this in the right perspective. I just outlined that. I hope that I have provided sufficient responses to the questions and comments of the spokesmen, in conjunction with what I have already indicated in writing. I am going to deal with the amendments, but there is one more question from Mr Verhoeven that I have left behind. That question concerned the Dutch Venture Initiative. The Dutch Venture Initiative 1 fund has invested 100 million from the Empire and 50 million from the European Investment Fund. It is intended to generate new funds, in which private investors also invest money. On this basis, SMEs in the Netherlands can be financed. That DVI 1 is going well. As soon as the annual report on DVI 1 is finished, I will send it to the Chamber. Because of the involvement of the European Investment Fund, the funds that come from it focus on Europe as a whole. However, we have established that the funds resulting from DVI 1 must provide at least twice as much investment in SMEs as the Dutch government has put into it. My estimate right now is that this is a factor 4 instead of a factor 2. So we get four times as much money for SMEs compared to what the Dutch government has put into it. Then that money comes back again. They're revolving funds. So we have a good picture of DVI 1. It is true that other countries of Europe may also invest, but since they are so far Dutch funds with Dutch fund management, the outcome is as I have just said. We will therefore forward the annual report of DVI 1 to the Chamber. In the meantime, we are working on DVI 2, with even more money: 100 million of us, 100 million from the European Investment Fund and 700 million from DVI 1, we expect to make investments for business. For DVI 2, the ambition is to invest 1.2 billion for business. This is also part of the 9 billion in the period mid-2015 to 2018 that I talked about before lunch break. This concerns Mr Verhoeven's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u82	I had asked a few short questions where I had no answer either in the written reply or in the reply. I had asked the Minister whether, in the context of energy saving, it would be possible for the intensive industry, which sometimes carries out larger projects, to achieve savings at once instead of 1.5% each year. I've asked the Minister about that before in an AO. He said he was gonna look into it. That is why I am asking again in the budget debate what is the situation with regard to this. I had also asked the Minister a question about a budget shift, whereby the Minister moved money from innovation to the top sectors. I have expressed my concerns as to whether it will still be accessible to SMEs. I also have a question about the area coordinator wind, which was partly in the written reply. I think that a person like that can only do his job well if he's truly trusted by the residents. How are the residents involved in selecting the person to do it there? I don't mean to veto them, but you have to involve them in this. Otherwise, someone like that can't do their job right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u83	No, but it's not that easy to do that to the people. One is often organized in action groups that say to act for the residents, but on which you sometimes hear other sounds. Sometimes they're quite negative, to put it mildly. That means that you can already predict what reaction you get when you come up with proposals for people. We discuss this with the provinces and the municipalities and then make the best possible choice. We point out to someone from whom we think it can work properly. After that, it is his or her role to engage directly with the residents and to create support. That's the way I chose. I have no intention other than Mrs Van Veldhoven. The choice I made is about getting the right person to work quickly. Mrs Van Veldhoven also mentioned the fact that innovation money is being shifted to the top sectors. It wonders what its impact is on SMEs. For lunch, I have talked for a very long time about supporting SMEs and how they are involved in the top sectors and in the various instruments we have to stimulate innovation. SMEs are more than equally involved in this. Mrs van Veldhoven's question on energy saving, which should be done at once, is not entirely clear to me. That is why I will clarify this in conversation with Mrs van Veldhoven and ensure that she gets an answer to this quickly. I think I will do so in writing in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u84	The latter is of course fine. It would be very nice if the Minister could respond to that later. We started with each other the idea of an area coordinator because we saw that the parties in some provinces have come face to face. We all realized that this would not help the transition to renewable energy, which both the Minister and I want to achieve. Then it's important to have someone out there who can pull things a little loose. The reason you're gonna be working with such an area coordinator is because you want to restore confidence in the process and you want to try to bring everyone along. For that, it is essential that the people who are now very critical of each other all have confidence in the person who has to do so. Once again, I am not asking for a veto, but for a careful process, in which people can at least be heard or involved, or perhaps choose between a few candidates. Can the Minister think again about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u85	No, I have to get on with Drenthe and Groningen, which is what this is all about. We look very closely at people who are communicative, who have experience in the functioning of public administration and who are also able to build support for the people. The choice has already been made. I can no longer work with lists that I am going to present to those directly involved, regardless of whether that would give the desired outcome at the moment. We are talking about a fairly well-tuned attitude. It is also the task of the regional coordinator to try to achieve results in this climate. I think that the people I have already brought up for this can do so. We're not stopping with the area coordinator right now. I am going to speak to the Chamber separately about all the communication aspects relating to renewable energy. I will then go into the way in which we can best select such an area coordinator and create support for it. I will take into account the suggestions made by Mrs Van Veldhoven. With your permission, Mr President, I shall move on to the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u86	I'd love to, and I'd like that pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u87	I'm very sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u88	You can do it!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u89	With your agreement, I would first like to make a general comment on the coverage of a number of amendments. The spokesperson's idea has emerged that there may be money in the TKI bonus which will not be paid in 2016, so something could be done. We discussed this extensively before lunch. The TKI bonus is given by the Empire on cooperation efforts by companies and knowledge institutions. Those companies and knowledge institutions put together money into a project. In order to encourage this in the top sectors, there is an additional 25%, so that even more can be done and we can benefit widely from the results of this cooperation. That's the system of the TKI supplement. At some point this system has been introduced and a certain amount has been made available for this purpose. This money is therefore used for multiannual research projects. This means that that money could not be spent immediately the first year it was available. Suppose it's the year 2013 and you have $100 million available. If you make commitments, they will be paid out in the years 2014, 2015, 2016 and 2017 and maybe even for a piece in the year 2013, but at least not more than a piece. In this system you enter into obligations for a number of years. A total budget of €75.4 million will be available in 2016. Commitments have already been made in previous years. Part of those commitments should be paid out in the year 2016, i.e. an amount of 51.6 million. The remaining amount of 23.8 million is the commitments we will make next year, which will be paid out in 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019. If we partially delete the 23.8 million available for next year, we will actually stop those top sectors. These top sectors create knowledge and innovation agendas. They make a deal with each other. They have signed contracts with me and with the cabinet that says: over the next two years we are going to do so much billion in research, we are going to do so, this comes from the Empire and from the TKI bonus there is also money. I've made administrative commitments to that. All the money available for TKI for the year 2015 will be used. All the money for the next year will also be used. The years when we were left with money from the TKI bonus because we had to start the business are over. Right now, we need all that money. If we take that money away now, we will really put the axe at the root of the top sector policy and we will not meet our commitments in the context of the innovation contracts we have concluded. I don't think that's possible. I will not go into the coverage for a number of amendments every time, but in my view the TKI premium is not cover.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u90	Just so I'm clear, basically, the Minister himself is taking money away from the TKI. It's about a 26 million reduction. In replying to questions, he claims that this 26 million is spent on deficits in the RVO and a cash estimate. Does the Minister mean that all this is before the TKI, or is it being taken out of the TKI?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u91	The first years after we introduced the TKI bonus, the money did not come to pay. Because the money was in the budget, the Chamber eventually allocated that money differently. After all, budget law lies with the Chamber. But now, in 2015, we need the money that is available. And in 2016 we also need the money that is available.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u92	But the 26 million that's being reduced is coming to the TKI. Or is that money that was earmarked in the past and is therefore 26 million, or is it going to be 26 million in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u93	A budget of 75.4 million is available for the TKI supplement in 2016. There are already 51.6 million legally required under commitments in recent years. If we continue in 2016 on the basis of the contracts we have concluded with knowledge institutions and companies, 23.8 million will be available for the first part of the multiannual commitments we intend to make next year, 2016-2019. Those are the amounts I can talk about right now. As far as the years before 2016 are concerned, we had money left over in previous years and we need all the money available this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u94	The Minister is almost giving the answer himself. Does he admit that more than 51 million out of 75 are legally required and that the remaining part belongs to the budget of the Chamber and that we can choose for ourselves what we spend it on?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u95	51.6 million is legally required. The government's top sectors policy has been supported by the Chamber. That's why I'm doing my job. The Chamber knows how we organise it with these top sectors. Top sectors are about our innovation and our future earning ability. We are organizing this cooperation. These are long-term projects, knowledge and innovation agendas. We have concluded a contract with the knowledge institutions and companies. I made an administrative commitment to that. Of course, the Chamber can say that we have always supported these top sectors, but now we are removing the mat underneath, we are taking away the money and we accept that you will be in your shirt administratively, that the activities of these top sectors will stop because money is no longer available, that the government will not prove to be a reliable partner and that innovation will become a brake on innovation. In theory, that is all conceivable, but I do not think that is the intention of the Chamber. The Court has put an amount in the multiannual budget for the TKI supplement. It wasn't necessary for the first few years. Now it's necessary. There have been contracts concluded by me. If you take away the money, there will be a very strange situation. That's my assessment of that situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u96	I just want to get this sharp. As soon as contracts have been concluded, it is, in my opinion, legally binding. The part we are talking about, the good 20 million, is not yet legally mandatory. These may be commitments, but they are not yet contracts that would cause companies to get into trouble right away because they are hard-core contracts underneath them. I want that sharp. I note that the space of about 23 million is still there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u97	We have a legal obligation to pay the 51.6 million. The other is my administrative obligation in the context of the innovation contract that I have entered into together with all the top sectors for the next two years. This two-year contract for a total of EUR 4.2 billion is based on knowledge and innovation agendas prepared jointly with government, industry and knowledge institutions for each of the top sectors. So I am involved in both those knowledge and innovation agendas and in the innovation contract for the next two years. That 51.6 million is therefore a legal obligation and that 23.8 million is an administrative obligation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u98	Mr Verhoeven would like to take the floor. We may, but then we will really go to the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u99	This is simply about the amendments, Mr President. I think everyone in the room is using this cover. That's not for nothing. My question is actually very simple. The Minister has tried to explain it technically. He has done so in writing and has just done so orally. Several amendments have been tabled. It is not imaginary that some of them are going to make it. What happens if those amendments make it? I'd like to know about the Minister. I'm sure that cover could work. I'm assuming it's just possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u100	Mr Verhoeven spoke of'may work'. It could work if we were to put a brake on top sector policy. We have built up the top sectors policy over the past four years. So we should say at once: we are taking away the money; we are not making any or less commitments next year. It could be if, under its budget law, the Chamber decided to leave me in my shirt administratively. In order to implement the top sector policy, which was agreed by the Chamber, I made agreements. In order to implement this, the multiannual budget has made funds available for the TKI bonus and I have organised this cooperation with industry and the knowledge institutions. Both in the knowledge and innovation agendas and in the innovation contract, I have entered into administrative commitments. In theory, the Chamber can say, "We're gonna take that money from you now." However, I think that this is very undesirable administratively. It is also very undesirable from the point of view of innovation. In the field of innovation and cooperation with industry and knowledge institutions, we are being put back a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u101	I think it is ultimately up to the Chamber to decide what it thinks is important and how it is exercising its budget right. I listened very carefully to the Minister. The amendment I have tabled concerns SURF. Last year we also asked for additional funding for this. We made that request separately from an amendment at that time. We asked the Minister otherwise if he could arrange it. The Minister said at the time that he would take care of this, but I regret to note that there is still a financial problem with regard to SURF. That is why I have retabled the amendment. What if we do not table these amendments or they do not make it? What is the Minister going to do in the case of SURF to ensure that there is enough funding? The Chamber must, of course, be able to move money within a budget, otherwise we will no longer have to deal with the budget at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u102	However, the Court must be aware that it has indicated that it considers top-level policy and innovation to be important. It has accepted this policy, put an amount for it in the multiannual budget, and has allowed me to go ahead with it. I made some administrative arrangements about that. The Chamber can also see this as an important fact. It's a trade-off that needs to be made by the Chamber. I have the impression that Mr Verhoeven's summary of what I said at the time with regard to SURF is a little bit off. Yeah, I'm gonna do that. I will say a few more words about that in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u103	I see Mr Bosman standing by the interrupting microphone, but he's out of his interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u104	Really?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u105	Yeah, life is hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u106	I come to the amendments. Very recently I have a new amendment to item No. Twenty-one. I have seen that the numbering of the amendments has just been adjusted, but that is beyond my control. So I'm going to take the numbering as it was at the beginning of my first term. We can later see if some songs can be moved. I shall begin with the Schouten/Dik-Faber amendment, in part No. 4. It states that natural gas revenues must be reduced to a level corresponding to 27 billion cubic metres from Groningen. As I said, I think we should look at these estimates as soon as we get a look at the decision-making process at the end of the year. We will then look at what we are going to do in 2016 and then have to adjust the budget accordingly. It wouldn't be wise to do that now. The amendment says "27 billion." Why isn't it 25 billion or 30 billion or 31 billion as GTS says? I think it is now being done a little bit with the wet finger, while at the end of the year we can do it in a good way on the basis of the two investigations that are going on and the GTS analysis on security of supply. The amendment in part No. 4 I therefore advise against. In the Schouten amendment to item No. 7 is asked to make 3 million extra available for MARIN. I understand that Mrs Schouten thinks that the public funding of 3 million is too little. The context is that, within the maritime cluster, around €25 million is available for this type of research, half of which is publicly funded. MARIN receives 7.5 million a year from the government: 3.3 million from EZ, 0.8 million from Defence and 3.4 million from the TKI allowance, which we have just discussed. In 2017, there will be an evaluation of all TO2 institutes, including the amount of this amount, the functioning of MARIN and the future. I think it would be wise to await that evaluation of the TO2 institutes in 2017 before we make any changes to the funding. I believe that the funding mentioned, with 7.5 million from the government, is reasonable. With private funding to be attracted, MARIN is able to do what is necessary. I do not recommend the Schouten amendment in part No. 7.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u107	We were just talking about the reliability of the government in the top sectors. That's what's going on here. The government has indicated that it will be responsible for 10% of the funding of the TO2 institutes. MARIN is sinking under there now. This immediately jeopardises the knowledge base, while making a major contribution to the earning capacity of the Netherlands. Does the Minister recognize that? Does he also see that cheap can end up being very expensive for MARIN?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u108	No, because I can keep the same story with respect to the National Air and Space Laboratory, TNO and ECN. These are all TO2 institutions where budget reductions have been applied by those who have budget rights, namely the Chamber. I am applying these reductions and they must be implemented, because the Chamber does not decide for nothing. I find what's left for MARIN 6,7 million from my ministry's budget, with the TKI surcharge, plus $800,000 from Defence, i.e. a total of 7.5 million reasonable, in the light of the whole. Whether this will remain the case, we can look at this evaluation in 2017. I don't think it's reasonable to pick MARIN out and get extra money.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u109	I asked the Minister to comment on my remark that they fall below 10% public funding. He just had a passionate argument about the reliability of the government. How can he say he's trustworthy here? It's not about whether it's reasonable, it's about what a TO2 institute can expect. They also make their knowledge available to all companies to create a lot of money and jobs for the Netherlands. How reliable is the government still if it makes a 10% commitment and falls below it itself in this case?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u110	The government is reliable, because for a longer period of time we have indicated to each of the TO2 institutes how to achieve these cuts. I can imagine that this hurts, but that applies to all TO2 institutes, and not just to them. We have made major cuts across the board to clean up public finances. That was necessary. A contribution has been made to this too. Some other funding has been provided. Where you first only had a basic provision, that TKI supplement is now added. I think that the situation for MARIN is, in general, acceptable, especially until the evaluation, and then we will look further.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u111	Then there is the amendment to item No. 9.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u112	In the amendment to item No. 9 by Ms Gesthuizen and Mr Smaling are asked to finance Architecture Local with an additional €150,000 from the EZ budget. Architecture Local is financed from the OCW budget. A discount has been applied at OCW. It is not obvious to compensate for this through the EZ budget, I think. Architecture Local is now receiving a grant from the Creative Industries Fund NL for similar activities. This fund, divided over the years 2015 and 2016, has provided a grant of €260,000. Another additional €150,000 from the EZ budget to reverse OCW savings is something I cannot give a positive opinion on. I therefore reject the amendment to item No. 9. In the amendment to item No. 11 by Mr Verhoeven to finance ten additional fablabs. With apologies to Mr Graus, I do not want to do that. I will repeat the arguments for this. I have dealt extensively with the fablabs and the way in which they are financed. I also said how the government could possibly contribute to certain fablabs in addition to existing resources. I refer to the MIT, the TKI and the ERDF funds. So I do not think it is desirable to do what is proposed in this amendment. The amendment in part No. I therefore advise 11 of Mr Verhoeven. With the amendment in part No. 12 Mr Van Veen wants to realise that an additional 15 million will be made available once for the promotion of smart industry. This is not about fablabs, but about field labs, again with an apology to Mr Graus. The development of field labs is primarily a matter of cooperation between industry and the knowledge institutions. It really has to start with private commitment, because you can't get that started from the government. It is the industry that has to use the possibilities of internet and ICT applications in its industrial production processes. That's got to come from her. It must bring those knowledge institutions in itself. Together they have to look at the financing. We are available: the TKI supplement, the MIT scheme and Horizon 2020. Provinces are available through the regional funds. We did the same in Gilze and Rijen with the field lab that I was allowed to open two weeks ago. The ERDF programmes are also available. I think we should do it with those resources that are available. I don't think there's any need for more resources right now. I have already given an extra boost by making sure that it is the ambition that we should be able to start at least by the end of the year, but preferably with all ten field labs. I think we can leave it at that. I think that the cover from the TKI premium, which Mr Van Veen is using, is very undesirable. This also applies to the other amendments. For these reasons, I do not recommend this amendment. I shall deal with the amendment to item No. 13, by Mrs Vos and Mr Verhoeven. They want 8 million to be added to the budget for SURF. SURF organises the ICT infrastructure for institutions of scientific education and higher education. This means that this is a responsibility of OCW. I really do not avoid responsibilities, but if OCW is responsible for higher education institutions and for research, then that ministry is also responsible for SURF. SURF receives, in structural terms, an annual amount of 22 million euros. Indeed, a report was published once, I believe in 2010, which said that this should be 30 million; but well, it has become 22 million. A lot has happened since then. So I think the 22 million is the starting point. Nevertheless, in the period 2011-2019, 25 million additional funds were made available on an occasional basis, of which 19 million were charged to the EZ budget, also following amendments by the Chamber. We can talk about whether it is reasonable that so much money has been added occasionally, and you can also ask whether it is reasonable that this has been taken out of the EZ budget, but it has happened. I think that on the basis of the fixed amount of 22 million a year and on the basis of what has happened occasionally in the past, it is logical that SURF should do so and that it should get the extra money it wants from the private sector. I think it is very undesirable to add extra money to this again from the EZ budget, also because of its very undesirable coverage. That is why I reject this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u113	A little on behalf of my colleague, Mr Vos, I would like to ask the following question, which is entirely hypothetical. If we were to withdraw this amendment, what could the Minister do for SURF? The Minister has now understood that SURF is highly regarded.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u114	I believe that SURF plays an important role. It's been five years since this has been looked at. I think it would be useful to look together with OCW at the whole of the infrastructure that we need for our ICT sector, at the role that SURF can play in this, and at how the funding needed for SURF in the light of the analysis can be provided, either by the government or by the private sector, or by publicly funded knowledge institutions. So I am prepared to look at this together with OCW, to put it in a greater perspective and draw conclusions from it for the future. But this amendment would simply take this out of my budget and bring it there. It is also not sufficiently substantiated, apart from the fact that the coverage is not good. But if this hypothetical case were to become a reality and the Chamber would declare that it must be done as I have just discussed, then I am prepared to do so. Then we can keep open what conclusions are drawn from it. So much for my response to Mr Vos' question. I would like to move on to the amendment to item No. 14, by Mr Verhoeven. He proposed that the Chamber donate an additional half million to open source encryption projects such as OpenSSL, LibreSSL and PolarSSL through an amendment to the Economic Affairs budget. I do not know whether Mr Graus will be very happy with these names, but at the moment the public is still present to a lesser extent, so we may now be able to afford some professional jargon. I have pledged to the Chamber that I will look together with the Minister of Security and Justice at the different interests that play around encryption. I know that Mr Verhoeven is not so much concerned with the amount in itself. He said that he thought this was important and we had an exchange of views. I went a long way with him. I said that I would present this to the Chamber in a good way. Perhaps I can conclude that this is enough for Mr Verhoeven; then I will no longer have to say that I am betraying this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u115	Mr Verhoeven is now through his interruptions, but he says he wants to make a point of order. That must really be a point of order, not a sneaky interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u116	Mr Graus made a very valid point this morning. I very much agree with him, but we cannot translate the names of organizations. I find it a little disappointing that we are now pretending to be an English-language name for an organization. Then we pretend we're talking very complicated here, when we just call the names of organizations. That's all I wanted to say. I also agree with the PVV Group that simple language is better.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u117	This week is also the week of Dutch.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u118	That's right, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u119	I have not yet heard Mr Verhoeven withdraw the amendment. I have already spoken to him about it and I have indicated how I intend to respond to what he has said in substance. In my opinion, the coverage is inadequate. That is why I do not recommend the amendment to item No 2 of the motion for a resolution. 14. I shall now turn to the Amendment No 1, tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 15, by Mrs Gesthuizen, on digital security at the start of a web store. I very much agree with her that digital security deserves great attention in financial transactions that take place in web stores. As a consumer, you have to be able to rely on that. An increasing proportion of retail business takes place via online activities, via web stores. If you provide data, such as information about your bank account number or amounts, it is necessary to ensure digital security. Business recognizes this as well. There are several initiatives that support entrepreneurs in this regard. For example, SMEs-Netherlands has a service desk and has the Safe Business Internet campaign for entrepreneurs. KPN and other parties cooperate with SME Netherlands to support the service desk. I think we're working on it in the right way now. A separate amount charged to the budget of EZ is not necessary for this purpose. Moreover, the coverage is undesirable. It consists of the implementation budget for the Wbso scheme. I just indicated that we merged the Wbso scheme with the RDA scheme. 23,000 companies are involved in this. Of course, this changing regime requires the necessary efforts in itself. The amount I have estimated to implement this scheme is very realistic. We can lower the amount, but I really need the money. Otherwise, I'm gonna have to let that arrangement go. In view of the enormous amount of money involved, I do not think that this is desirable. A reduction in the implementation costs of the Wbso is therefore, in my opinion, not proper coverage. In addition to the substantive arguments, this leads me to discourage the amendment on item No. 15. I shall now turn to the Amendment No 1, tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on It will charge an additional 5 million for the year 2016 for ECN. I have indicated what is going on at ECN and how I intend to deal with it. I hope that is enough for Mrs Van Veldhoven. I don't think we should come up with this extra amount right now. That is why I do not recommend this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u120	In the meantime, the amendment to item No. 17, Amendment No 17, Amendment No 17, Amendment No 17, Amendment No 17, Amendment No 17, Amendment No 17, Amendment No 17, Amendment No 17, Amendment No 17, Amendment No 17, Amendment No 17, Amendment No 17, Amendment No 17, Amendment No 17, Amendment No 17, Amendment No 17, Amendment No 17,
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u121	I shall now turn to the Amendment No 1, tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 18 by Mrs Van Veldhoven, with which she wants to arrange an additional 1 million for the Pool Programme. I was wondering when this would come. Mrs. Van Veldhoven has been to Nova Zembla. So she's got even more insight into what's going on. These are activities in the area for which the Arctic Council is present. The Netherlands is not a member of the Arctic Council. We're sitting at the table as an observer. Membership is reserved for countries with Arctic coastal waters. The Netherlands does not belong to this. So we don't have any say in the whole thing either. We do have an observer. Dutch polar experts, of whom Mrs Van Veldhoven may have met some at Nova Zembla, are taking part in this programme on the basis of our current polar policy framework. The Netherlands is already contributing EUR 3.7 million. There's 0.4 million of EZ in there. I think that's enough. Moreover, additional money will not increase the Dutch influence accordingly. That is why I reject the amendment to item No. 18 by Mrs Van Veldhoven.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u122	That is now the amendment to item No. 20 years old. I see Mrs Van Veldhoven is trying to interrupt, but she is through her interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u123	In doing so, I have dealt with the amendments that I know of. I thank the Chamber for the opportunity to...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u124	We are still missing one amendment in your reviews, namely the Van Tongeren amendment in part No. 21 on an excellent business environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u125	Yeah, I just got that. Mrs Van Tongeren aims to create a new guarantee scheme for energy saving in energy-intensive companies. That scheme is equivalent to the current Ship New Construction Financing Guarantee Scheme. Financial instruments are already available. We have the GO scheme, which allows us to guarantee 50% of a bank loan, also for very large loans. This is already being used for energy saving projects. As part of the energy agreement and the company-specific agreements with the sector, I am discussing the financing of energy-saving measures. In consultation with the industry associations involved, I have appointed a quarter of an hour maker from the financial world. It will examine the desirability and possibilities of a private fund. I expect the results before the end of the year. Therefore, at present I do not see any added value in a separate guarantee scheme, in addition to the JV scheme available for this purpose. I can also go into coverage, but just because of the substantive reason I have just indicated, I have to advise against this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u126	We're gonna start with the second term of the Chamber. I would also ask Mrs Van Veldhoven to sit down so that we can all listen to Mrs Gesthuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u127	Mr. Chairman. I think we have had a good debate. We just didn't agree on everything, as usual. I would like to make two more comments before I table a motion. My first comment concerns the Authority's Consumer & Market. I very much look forward to the evaluation, because I think that we should be able to see clearly whether the ACM is sufficiently equipped with the human, force and resources at its disposal in this way. I imagine it's gotten a little tight here and there. My second comment concerns something that we did not really speak about anymore when the Minister replied: the situation at the European Patent Organisation. I would also like to thank the Minister very much for his first-term response. I would like to point out to the Minister that I regularly speak to Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation Minister Ploumen and that she is prepared to address companies and countries on the other side of the world if they violate human rights. Those same rights are currently being violated in Rijswijk. That is why I would like to table the next motion on this matter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that conduct by directors of international organisations who do not have anything to do with their international representation but do constitute a violation of national rules should not be covered by diplomatic immunity;]] [[Considering that in April 2014 the government presented a plan of action with measures to step up action against persons with diplomatic immunity who have violated Dutch law;]] [[noting that these measures focus solely on traffic fines and criminal offences and not on violations of workers' rights as noted by the judge at the European Patent Organisation;]] [[calls on the Government, within the limits of the Treaties, to do everything possible to ensure that the European Patent Organisation complies with international laws and regulations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Gesthuizen and Mr Kerstens. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XIII-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u128	In doing so, I want to conclude my second-term contribution. I look forward to the Minister's response in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u129	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his comprehensive reply, both in writing and orally. It's always good to chew on that for a while, sometimes firm. The Netherlands is doing well. I think we can all see that. We can make that a success, certainly a success of the cabinet, of the coalition. However, I am also looking at D66, the Christian Union and the SGP, which have sometimes supported us in difficult times and are taking the Netherlands out of the crisis. We're a lot better off now than we were two or three years ago, but we're not there yet. There are plenty of things to achieve and plenty of things to achieve. We are well on the competitive ladder, but we can still find a lot of flexible work. We are well on our way with the energy agreement. Renewable energy targets for 2020 and 2023 are feasible. That's good to know. This cabinet is also firmly committed to this, especially with the support of the VVD. If there's a risk that we won't make things, or if there's a chance of getting back to work, this minister will. That's good. If the tempo can rise, it has to. Then you can. But the VVD is reluctant when it comes to turning buttons without knowing what the result is. We are therefore also looking forward to the review of the Energy Agreement in 2016, precisely to assess everything in its integrality. The Minister says that energy production will be sufficient to absorb the peak in 2019. I'm not quite convinced of that yet, but I'll be briefed again. The debate is often about renewable energy, which is seen as renewable. But especially when it comes to energy, sustainable also means: reliable, affordable and good for the environment. Unfortunately, we are mainly looking at renewable energy. I am pleased that the Minister also looks at thorium as one of the possible sources of energy. Mrs Van Veldhoven asked me whether the VVD now opts for one technique. The answer is: no, we do not choose one technique, but we do not want to exclude technology. As many techniques as there are available, so much we need to use and look at. That is why I am pleased that we are going to discuss this technique. I hope that will be part of the energy dialogue in 2016. Then I come to the abolition of roaming charges in the Benelux. We are receiving signals that it is not self-evident that roaming in the EU will be abolished in June 2017. Therefore, the Benelux route to speed up the abolition of roaming remains interesting. The Belgian colleague of the Minister, Mr De Croo, is enthusiastic and so is Luxembourg's Prime Minister Bettel. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a well-functioning European telecoms market requires the abolition of roaming charges;]] [[whereas, although the abolition of roaming charges at EU level is planned for mid-2017, it is still far from certain that this date will be met;]] [[calls on the Government to make full use of the option of abolishing roaming charges in the Benelux context in addition to the current commitment at European level to abolish roaming charges;]] [[further invites the Government, before 1 December 2015, to provide further information to the Chamber on the progress of both pathways,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Bosman, Mr Oosenbrug and Mr Agnes Mulder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XIII-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u130	The Dutch Tourism and Congresses Bureau is carefully innovating. It gets less money, but still performs more. We are now working on a project-wise approach. They are now trying to reach Asia, to get tourists from there to the Netherlands. To support that project, I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the tourism sector is of great importance for the Dutch economy and that 5.1% of our employment, according to CBS, provides many jobs, mostly also at the bottom and in the middle segment of the labour market;]] [[Whereas global tourism is expected to continue to grow strongly in the coming years;]] [[noting that NBTC is carrying out useful projects to put the tourist potential of the Netherlands internationally on the map;]] [[Calls on the Government to consider how it can contribute to supporting these projects, for example by bringing together parties;]] [[calls on the Government to consider the possibilities of using possible under-utilisation to co-finance one or more projects,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bosman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XIII-24]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u131	The Minister is very clear about the TKIs. He thinks it's important and essential. So does the VVD. I have one more question about that. I'm afraid I've run out of interruptions. What about the 5 million running costs of the Wbso for the RVO, to be paid out of the TKI funds? Is that money in favor of the TKIs or not? Or is it just being taken away from the TKIs, which we all consider so important? I'd like to get an answer to that. It is good that the evaluation of the TO2 institutions will take place in 2016. When can we look forward to this evaluation? As far as the VVD is concerned, preferably for the 2017 budget. To Mr Agnes Mulder's question about the 50 million, I say: yes, we are certainly in favour of that. As far as the tax system is concerned, my colleague who deals with the tax system is concerned. It must certainly be for the benefit of SMEs. I'm gonna close with a nice motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Minister has undertaken to contribute EUR 15 million to the development of field labs under the Smart Industry agenda;]] [[whereas the Minister expressed the ambition to have ten field labs realized in 2016;]] [[Whereas ERDF funds are granted only on the basis of private and/or public co-financing;]] [[Calls on the Government to inform the Chamber on the progress, allocation of ERDF funds and state funding of the field labs well in the 2017 budget;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bosman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XIII-25]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u132	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for his reply, also in writing. I thought it was very clear, thank you very much. My first motion reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that as soon as companies, public authorities and educational institutions start working together, there will be an organisation that will be subject to different VAT rules, which in many cases leads to a higher VAT burden than without cooperation;]] [[Whereas cooperation between companies, public authorities or educational institutions is important because of the innovation impulse of such partnerships;]] [[noting that already ten years ago by the then Minister of Finance in a letter to the Chamber (Room Documents II 2004/05, 28753, No. 7) it was written that the impact of VAT should not stand in the way of a choice of public investment through public-private partnerships (pps);]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that VAT is no longer a cost increase and thus a barrier to public investment via PPPs in the field of education and research, and to inform the Court of Justice about the impact,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are many initiatives to start building high-speed internet;]] [[noting that the implementation of initiatives in outlying areas has been hampered by competition rules;]] [[Whereas the accelerated construction of the fast internet calls for the creation of more space for construction in areas where it is now seen as market-distorting;]] [[calls on the government to create experimental and regulatory space for these specific circumstances, so that the construction of fast internet can actually be accelerated,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the government is making available EUR 50 million for SME/start-ups as of 2017;]] [[Considering that own capital enhancement is an important prerequisite for SMEs to be able to re- attract bank credit;]] [[Whereas it is desirable to mobilise private assets in favour of the Dutch economy;]] [[calls on the Government to take account of:]] [[strengthening the equity of SMEs, including start-ups;]] [[mobilising private assets facilitating both direct investment and indirect investment through funds or crowdfunding platforms;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas research and innovation is essential for the development of renewable energy in the future and the Netherlands can play a role in it;]] [[Whereas financial support to the Netherlands Energy Research Centre is reduced and risks losing the knowledge base and jobs at the Netherlands Energy Research Centre;]] [[Calls on the Government to compensate for the reduction of the budget to ECN from 2015 to 2016 from the research budget in the SDE+ scheme,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the application of fracking may affect seismicity;]] [[Whereas the safety of fracking is further guaranteed in the forthcoming amendment to the Mining Act;]] [[Whereas the Government has committed itself to carrying out research into the current use of fracking in the Netherlands, including the safeguarding of safety and groundwater quality;]] [[calls on the Government to suspend fracking activities pending the seismic risk analysis and the amendment of the Mining Act,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Agnes Mulder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XIII-26]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Agnes Mulder and Mr Oosenbrug. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XIII-27]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Agnes Mulder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XIII-28]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Van Tongeren, Mr Smaling and Mr Van Veldhoven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XIII-29]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Smaling, Mr Van Veldhoven, Mr Van Tongeren and Mr Dik-Faber.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XIII-30]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u133	I would like to point out that this research has been specifically requested on behalf of the PvdA. I'm filing my final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Wbso and the RDA are merged and that this is not intended to redistribute innovation funds;]] [[Whereas due to the expiry of the cap in the RDA, it is likely that large companies will be able to make greater use of the combined innovation scheme at the expense of SMEs;]] [[Whereas it is important that the integrated scheme continues to provide SMEs with two thirds of the funds;]] [[calls on the Government to take into account the current applications for the integrated Wbso/RDA proposal and to provide an insight into the shifts between and within the groups of small, medium-sized and large enterprises;]] [[also invites the Government to forward the calculation to the Chamber before 1 November 2015,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Agnes Mulder and Mr Dijkgraaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XIII-31]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u134	In conclusion, I have one more question. We have received a commitment on the SDE+ scheme. Thank you for the letter we will receive in November. Can the Minister clarify what exactly is going on with energy innovation? We consider them very important. Can the Minister provide insight into the timetable for the plans for tidal energy at the Brouwersdam?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u135	I may have blacked out during this debate, but I do not remember asking as spokesman for the PvdA Group for an investigation into fracking. I thought it was an interesting comment, but I do not think that was the case. Nevertheless, I would like to say that I am always okay with being critical of fracking; that should be clear. Again, I don't remember. I shall read the Acts, but I would like to say this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u136	But your signature is under the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u137	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u138	No, he's not under the motion. Nor do I recall taking the position suggested by Mrs Mulder. Words are being put in my mouth which I do not think I have spoken. Maybe I'm wrong. I shall read the Acts again, but I really do not believe that this has been ventilated by the PvdA Group in this way. Nevertheless, being critical of fracking has my support.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u139	I always thought the PvdA group was critical of fracking. I have seen all the questions she has put. Indeed, I have assumed that it could support an investigation in this area, also in view of the Mining Act that is coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u140	Perhaps it would be more convenient to speak on behalf of our own group. Saves a lot of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u141	I'll certainly do that in the future. I thought I was making a gesture towards the PvdA Group. It's clear how she's reacting to it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u142	Apparently, my sense of humor is different, although I can still see the humour of the discussion that is emerging. Once again, I support the investigation, but not the statement that we would have made or supported such a proposal during the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u143	It's noted. The next speaker will be Mr Jan Vos of the PvdA Group, who will also speak on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u144	Mr. Chairman. I would like to start by saying that it is important that there is local support when windmills are placed in the Netherlands. I said this on behalf of the CDA Group, but I support it from the PvdA. All crazy on a stick. I thank the Minister for answering the questions. I think it is important to note that the PvdA Group fully supports the budget that we have discussed today. Nevertheless, I would like to make a number of motions with which we wish to make the points. The first motion concerns social entrepreneurship. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas social entrepreneurship is a useful category of entrepreneurs that can be of great benefit to the economy and society;]] [[Whereas social entrepreneurship occupies a place between corporate social responsibility and the charitable institutions;]] [[whereas, unfortunately, social entrepreneurship is still under-explored and not fully understood by policy-makers, and that not all information is available;]] [[whereas the Netherlands is lagging behind the United Kingdom, which has a Social Value Act;]] [[Whereas it is important to properly measure the impact of social enterprise, as mentioned in the ESC opinion on social enterprises;]] [[calls on the Government to allow the CPB to carry out an investigation in order to identify the nature, extent and significance of social entrepreneurship, including access to finance for entrepreneurs,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Jan Vos, Agnes Mulder, Verhoeven, Gesthuizen and Van Tongeren.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XIII-32]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u145	My second motion concerns the gas extraction at Terschelling. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the application for a Tulip Oil d.d. extraction permit, 11 November 2014 at Terschelling;]] [[Considering the wide-ranging and conflicting interests of the environment, nature and local support of the municipality and province, which play a role in a decision on the extraction authorisation;]] [[having regard to the deliberations and the arguments and positions expressed by the various parties in various debates in the Chamber;]] [[expressed its opposition to the extraction at Terschelling, since it was not made likely that this would fit within the new environment and nature protection frameworks, as established by the Court when dealing with the Mining Act,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Jan Vos, Ouwehand, Van Veldhoven and Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XIII-33]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u146	I am tabling a motion on SEED Capital and the various innovation funds and pathways that we are currently going through with each other. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Cabinet is examining possibilities for the broadening and further development of the Dutch Investment Agency;]] [[whereas SEED Capital can play a more important role in the growth of start-ups by participating in larger funds, in line with the Israeli example;]] [[believes that the Netherlands needs green start-ups that grow rapidly to a value of more than 1 billion;]] [[Invites the Government to include the possible scaling-up of SEED Capital in the NIA's further development investigation into how funds can reach a minimum size of EUR 20 million and report back to the Court in spring 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Jan Vos, Bosman and Van Veldhoven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XIII-34]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u147	I also have a motion on ECN. It is clear that there are wide-ranging concerns about the funding of this institution. My group believes that ECN should focus on the transformation that we are currently going through, the transition, while saving as much red tape as possible with regard to the reduction of the organisation, apart from the employment that will be lost. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Minister will consider in the coming months how best to organise future energy research in the Netherlands and what role ECN can play in it;]] [[Whereas its outcome will not be implemented until 2017;]] [[Whereas ECN has knowledge relevant in the future energy research field;]] [[calls on the Government to adopt an arrangement to prevent the loss of key knowledge in the field of energy in 2016 and to report to the Chamber before the end of November 2015,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas in order to achieve the objectives of the Energy Agreement, the sustainability of energy supply in the Netherlands must be achieved in all sectors of the economy;]] [[Whereas this also applies to the transport and consumption of fuels;]] [[Whereas there are no clear targets for sustainable mobility beyond 2020 and, more specifically, the number of zero emission cars and, as part of this, the number of self-driving cars;]] [[calls on the Government, together with all relevant actors in the transport sector, to reach a sustainable mobility agreement containing concrete objectives and means for electric transport and the promotion of green gas and hydrogen as fuels for the transport sector,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Jan Vos, Bosman and Van Veldhoven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XIII-35]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Jan Vos and Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XIII-36]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u148	Mr. Chairman. I'm filing my motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a growing number of franchisees are not adequately protected by the applicable "erecode";]] [[also noted that various associations of interests for the benefit of franchisees called the alarm clock about the abuse of power by franchisees;]] [[calls on the Government to consider the form and extent of the framework deemed necessary to improve the position of franchisees,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a large number of disputes in the franchise sector arise from a failing pre-contractual phase and/or may not (timely) obtain the necessary (financial) information;]] [[calls on the Government to commit itself to improving the position of franchisees at the pre-contractual stage in order to avoid numerous and costly legal disputes and resulting socio-economic problems,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to simplify and shorten public procurement procedures for small and medium-sized enterprises;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to make available to the public recidivists under paying local authorities and, on a constant basis, to shorten the municipal and/or provincial funds;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to use part of the proceeds from the sale of ABN AMRO to take a 20% share in Air France-KLM,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XIII-37]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XIII-38]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Graus and Mr Klever. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XIII-39]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Graus and Mr Klever. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XIII-40]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Graus and Mr Tony van Dijck. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XIII-41]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u149	Mr. Chairman. I'll file the next two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that all companies established in the Netherlands benefit from lower taxes;]] [[Whereas lower taxes contribute to a better business environment, which also means that more foreign companies want to establish themselves in the Netherlands, thus creating more jobs for both existing and newly established companies;]] [[calls on the Government to abolish all fiscal innovation facilities and instead to introduce a generic reduction for all companies,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that with current policies unemployment is barely declining next year;]] [[Whereas the number of investments by international companies in the Netherlands decreased last year;]] [[calls on the Government to focus more on improving the business environment at the Ministry of Economic Affairs in order to tackle unemployment and report to the Chamber on the measures taken to that end,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Klever and Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XIII-42]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Klever and Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XIII-43]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u150	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister, who has been giving answers to all the questions of the House of Representatives all day. I'll start filing two motions, because sometimes you don't have time for that at the end of your term. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is important for the Dutch economy that entrepreneurs can find sufficient funding;]] [[whereas the ECB's investigation shows that Dutch entrepreneurs have the lowest risk of credit across the EU;]] [[Whereas the current system of guarantees, loans and grants may be unclear due to the number of around 70 schemes for entrepreneurs;]] [[calls on the Government to improve the system of grant, guarantee and financing schemes by linking schemes smartly where possible;]] [[calls on the government also to show ambition in improving lending to businesses and to continue to talk to banks about their social function and responsibility,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Netherlands has an excellent starting point in the field of ICT thanks to AMS-IX, the high-speed internet connections and the rapid uptake of new Internet services;]] [[Whereas the Netherlands should continue to invest in the digital infrastructure in order to maintain this starting position;]] [[noting that the government invests in the economic position of mainport Rotterdam and in finding innovative solutions for the sustainable development of mainport Schiphol;]] [[calls on the Government to:]] [[recognising the digital infrastructure (AMS-IX, hosters and housing) as a third mainport;]] [[develop, together with relevant stakeholders, an economic vision to strengthen the position of the digital mainport;]] [[and invest in the implementation of that vision,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Verhoeven, Mr Jan Vos, Mr Agnes Mulder and Mr Öztürk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XIII-44]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Verhoeven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XIII-45]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u151	I have a few comments to make. I am pleased that the Minister has wished to discuss extensively with the Chamber the ceiling of the RDA and the Wbso, the two existing arrangements to help entrepreneurs with innovations. My colleague, Mr Van Weyenberg, will come back to that when we deal with the Tax Plan. D66's commitment will be to reduce that ceiling in the combination of the two arrangements advocated by the Cabinet. However, I welcome the Minister's commitment to continue to look critically and from an economic point of view at a number of laws that are bad for the Dutch locational environment, such as the Intelligence and Security Services Act and the Telecommunications Data Conservation Act. These laws may be able to drive companies out of the Netherlands in the future. I would therefore like to wish the Minister every success. We spoke briefly about the fablabs. Mr Graus is right: we should call that "small workshops" where anyone who has an idea can come up with that by using a 3D printer or a laser cutter. Actually, they're some sort of little labs. The Minister says there are already 40 and this is going well. However, there are only ten that really work well and that really lead to innovation and places where people can go. The Minister says that certain arrangements can be used. I hope he is prepared to help provinces to make use of it and to point it out to them every now and then. Finally, I noticed that the Minister is not prepared to allow any financial shift in his budget. He said every time that the coverage the MPs suggested wasn't right. I myself tabled two amendments to shift some money from one place to another, but the Minister said that the cover was not good and that he did not want to do so. My amendments were about SURF and encryption. If I find another cover, does that change the Minister's view of these amendments or does he say that he does not support these amendments and does not want them? Then we in the Chamber will know where we stand and perhaps we will have to show our teeth sometime. After all, budget law gives us the opportunity to shift the budget. With regard to top sector policies, there have been changes in the supplementary budgets in recent years. In a year and a half the Minister has raised 43 million and 12 million respectively, but now he is telling the Chamber that it cannot do so if it wants to do so for much smaller amounts. I'm gonna end up with that. I hope the Minister is prepared to show greater flexibility if the Chamber so requests.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u152	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply during this budget debate. During the exchange of views with the Minister, it became clear again how great the challenges we face to green our energy supply and shift our entire economy to a different basis. The NEF shows that we're not here yet. There are important challenges, especially in terms of energy saving, but also in terms of the long-term outlook. I welcome the Minister's commitment to include the long-term perspective in the energy vision that we will be discussing later this autumn. The Minister and I did not agree on coal in this debate, but perhaps we agree on a few points which I will mention in my motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Calls on the Government to discuss with the parties to the Energy Agreement how biosteam can contribute to completing the agreements on renewable energy at lower costs;]] [[calls on the government to redirect the savings to households and businesses through contributions to insulation and energy innovation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas an area coordinator for windmill areas can only work effectively if it enjoys widespread confidence;]] [[calls on the Government to include residents and stakeholders in the area concerned in the appointment of an area coordinator,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that remaining money from energy innovation is included in the budget of top sectors;]] [[calls on the government to ensure that this money is spent on sustainable and renewable (i.e. non-fossil) innovations and that SMEs benefit from this 50%;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Veldhoven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XIII-46]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van Veldhoven and Agnes Mulder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XIII-47]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Van Veldhoven and Dijkgraaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XIII-48]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u153	In particular, the Minister made a commitment on the area coordinator. He said he wants to look into that in the future. I welcome that part of the commitment, but I have tabled this motion together with Mrs Mulder, in order to see how we can ensure that the area coordinators who are already there can be given the best possible support and have as much support as possible in the areas in which they need to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u154	Mr. Chairman. I'm filing two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in the opinion on social enterprises, the ESC concludes that funding is a barrier for social enterprises and recommends improving the financing environment;]] [[Whereas existing schemes for SMEs are not always easily accessible to social enterprises, such as Qredits and the SEED Capital Scheme;]] [[Whereas social enterprises make a valuable contribution to social and sustainable goals;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with Social Enterprise NL, to examine the bottlenecks in obtaining funding from social enterprises and how existing credit schemes could be better organised, and to inform the Chamber in the cabinet response to the ESC opinion,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the NEV 2015 shows that the industry covered by the ETS (MEEs) improves energy efficiency annually, but is lagging behind in the 9 petajoule savings ambition set out in the Energy Agreement;]] [[Whereas the public authorities and the MEEs are discussing a new energy saving agreement for the period 2017-2020;]] [[calls on the Government, in the new covenant with the MEE companies, to jointly define the agreed additional savings effect of 9 petajoule from the Energy Agreement for all MEE sectors,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Schouten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XIII-49]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Schouten and Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XIII-50]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u155	On the issue of the RDA and the Wbso, we come back to the treatment of the Tax Plan to ensure that SMEs come out better. Green education will be dealt with in the agricultural budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u156	29 motions have been tabled so far. I call Mrs Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u157	Mr. Chairman. I'll file the following motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is a great deal of concern in Groningen about demolition, evacuation and evacuation of homes;]] [[calls on the government to unlock the information on evacuated, evacuated and demolished buildings (digitally) and to aggregate the information at municipal level where this is not possible due to privacy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a significant proportion of fossil resources should remain in the ground in order to limit climate change to a maximum of 2°C;]] [[whereas the President of the Netherlands Bank warns about the impact of climate change on the value of fossil investments;]] [[calls on the Government to provide access to the consequences for the Dutch economy by means of a relevant publication, e.g. the budget of the Ministry of Economic Affairs,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a significant proportion of fossil resources should remain in the ground due to climate change;]] [[whereas the President of the Netherlands Bank warns about the impact of climate change on the value of fossil investments;]] [[calls on the Government to reconsider its investments in fossil and, in particular, not to include shale gas in the energy vision,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there are municipalities with far-reaching plans and projects in the field of climate and energy which are subject to regulatory constraints;]] [[calls on the government to close up green municipalities on the identification and removal of regulatory bottlenecks,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Tongeren and Jan Vos. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XIII-51]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XIII-52]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XIII-53]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XIII-54]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u158	I would like to thank the Minister for his reply and for the two commitments to clarify figures, while clarifying my question to the Minister or his support.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u159	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas tidal energy has considerable potential, both in terms of sustainable generation and as an export product;]] [[whereas private investors want to invest in demonstrating that tidal energy can also work on a large scale;]] [[calls on the Government to facilitate this financially,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the budget for the Energy Innovation Projects Demonstration Scheme next year and the years after is in line with the sustainability assessment and demand from innovative businesses,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Dijkgraaf and Mr Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XIII-55]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Dijkgraaf and Mr Van Veldhoven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XIII-56]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u160	Now I'm filing motion 36. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Chamber of the Energy Report on the perspective and advantages and disadvantages of thorium energy in consultation with TU Delft experts and to involve it in the energy dialogue,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Dijkgraaf and Mr Bosman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XIII-57]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u161	I have two short points to make. The first concerns the rule printing paragraph. Thank you to the Minister for the commitment that he will keep his colleagues sharp, so that there really is a rule-print paragraph in significant legislative proposals. I would like to hear from the Minister whether it is possible for this to be reported to the Chamber at any time. I do find it pleasant and important to keep the finger on the wrist. The Minister could say that we can check that out ourselves. That's right. I don't know exactly how the Minister can easily record that. That shouldn't be a whole bureaucracy. If that can be done in an elegant way, I would appreciate it very much. Finally, the integration of the Wbso and the RDA. Logically, after the autumn recess, we will discuss this further at the time of the Tax Plan. It belongs to the Ministry of EZ, but it's in the Tax Plan. Then we will count our buttons again, also depending on the implementation of Mrs Mulder's and unsigned motion, which has undoubtedly been adopted.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u162	Now we're going to listen to the last participant on the side of the Chamber. That is Mr Öztürk. He's got three minutes and four seconds left.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u163	Mr. Chairman. In the budget for Economic Affairs, we have worked hard for the small businessman, the craft economy, business transfers, the district economy and the financing of small businesses. We have received answers from the Minister, but he is not very generous to the small entrepreneur. That is why we have had to prepare a number of amendments and motions. The Minister recognizes the problem of the craft economy, but he refuses to invest in the crafts and loses some 50 000 jobs a year. The Minister recognizes the problem of business transfers, but he refuses to take the lead on this problem, leaving 140,000 jobs lost every year. The Minister recognises the importance of the district economy, but refuses to invest in the neighbourhoods, leaving opportunities for SMEs. I have tabled amendments on these three subjects. Minister Kamp recognizes the problem of financing small businesses, but he refuses to tackle the banks, which puts the Netherlands at the lowest level in Europe in terms of business finance. I have the next motion on that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands has the highest number of rejections of credit applications by SMEs throughout the euro area;]] [[Whereas alternative forms of financing are less than 1% of the total banking credit market of more than EUR 300 billion;]] [[Considering that SMEs are the Netherlands' job engine and that this engine must remain oiled with sufficient funding;]] [[calls on the Government to examine, in broad terms, how banks can be encouraged to lend more loans to SMEs,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Öztürk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XIII-58]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u164	A motion has also been tabled by Mr Verhoeven on lending and support for businesses. We have wholeheartedly supported them. Colleagues Vos and Mulder have also given full support to this. Finally. I see in the Minister's reply that the market must do anything, but sometimes the market does not do everything he expects. Sometimes he just needs to intervene. It is a pity that he does not want to do so and does not really want to stand up for the small entrepreneur. It is a pity that he is not really committed to helping the small entrepreneurs, who are the job engine of the Netherlands, and who do not stand up for those groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u165	This brings to an end the second term of the Chamber. While we're eating, the Minister is looking at the 37 motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u166	We need the government's second term. Since the Minister has not yet taken the floor, I can mention a point of order. Most of the members are through their interruptions, I understand. The proposal is to allow the author of a motion who needs it to ask one enlightening question and to limit it to that. Then we are not going to have another discussion. At 7.30 p.m., the meeting was continued with the examination of an own-initiative proposal. I call the Minister for Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u167	Mr. Chairman. I will first try to answer the various questions. After that, I will provide the motions with a response. However, I shall begin by reporting an error to the Chamber. I said the proceeds of the digital bill of lading were 300 million for entrepreneurs. That was wrong. That's gotta be $100 million. I would like to correct that. Mrs Mulder asked me if I would like to explain again exactly what is going on with energy innovation. I do not really want to do that, because we have set out clearly in the sections what is going on with energy innovation. In my story, I have explained as well as I can what we are doing in the top sectors and what is going on with the DEI scheme. An amount of 50 million is available for this purpose. This amount also increases. I think I've said what I can say about that. I do not see any supplement that could be of interest to the Chamber. Mrs Mulder also asked me about the tidal power station at the Brouwersdam. In the written answers we indicated that the planning of the Brouwersdam project depends on the broad package of measures to improve the quality of the water in the Grevelingen and Volkerak-Zoommeer. Due to the coherence of all these different activities, we cannot give precise planning of the Brouwersdam project. The Chamber probably knows that Rijkswaterstaat is involved in the project Brouwersdam and is very intensive and attracted in various ways. I do not have any additional information to give. Because of the projects linked to them, it is not something on which I have the lead. Mrs Mulder also spoke about the SDE+ funds and projects. She will remember that I agreed to agree with what she said and with what the Court of Auditors said, namely that the information could be presented more clearly to the Chamber. I'm going to do that, and that's going to happen for the first time this year. Mr Vos has asked me to inform the Council of State about the proposal on the safety of oil and gas platforms in the North Sea. This bill has been amended by the Chamber on a number of very different issues, including the reversal of the burden of proof for Groningen. That's what I've been informed about. I don't want to just send that information to the Chamber. I think it's important for me to be able to tell what it's about. It was a bill on safety in the North Sea. The Chamber has included elements of the report of the Security Research Council. Moreover, it has brought about a reversal of the burden of proof. I have now come up with a new proposal to implement the recommendations of the Security Research Council. I'm getting another opinion on that bill from the Council of State. Then the bill goes to the Chamber. I will take into account the information given by the Council of State on a number of these points. I can point that out, too. The issue of the reversal of the burden of proof will be dealt with immediately. I hope all this can happen within a month, or perhaps a little earlier. It'll go to the room then. I do not want to send that to the Chamber in isolation, also because it is currently of limited importance to the Chamber, because the Chamber has already adopted the amended bill, which has already become a fact. I think this is particularly important for the Upper House at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u168	It may be of limited importance to this Chamber, but it is of course very important for the inhabitants of Groningen. That reversal of the burden of proof was dealt with by this Chamber in April. After that, the Minister said that he wanted further information. It was emergency briefing, like, six weeks. It would be treated at the end of the summer recess. Now the Minister says that he would like to explain it and also that he wants to involve it in another bill. I don't quite understand it anymore, so for my information, here's the thing. We've dealt with a law. An amendment has been tabled to that effect and that amendment has been adopted. The Council of State has provided information. Now the Minister is going to refer to that information from the Council of State. Yeah, that'll keep us busy. The minister is the cabinet. He's already said the cabinet doesn't want it, or else. The Chamber has said that it wants it. So let's get this to the First Chamber as soon as possible and no longer discuss it with each other. The fact that we do not agree is now clear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u169	The First Chamber has already made it clear that it considers it logical to consider both legislative proposals together. You know, that information from the Council of State was not relevant to the House of Representatives, because the House of Representatives amended that law, which dealt with a completely different subject, and introduced the reversal of the burden of proof for Groningen. I said that we should first ask for information and then vote on it. You wanted to vote first. This means that the bill has already been adopted by the House of Representatives. It was sent to the Upper House by the House of Representatives. The First Chamber understood from me that I wanted to ask for this information and to offer it to the First Chamber. The First Chamber has made it clear that it wants to examine both legislative proposals together, both first and second. I will ensure that that information arrives in an orderly manner at the First Chamber and at that time I will inform the House of Representatives. I think I can do that best when I send the second bill to the House of Representatives. The information which was actually intended for the First Chamber can then be brought into the Chamber's attention and thus give it clarity. Mr Vos said that this is also important for the people of Groningen, because they have been waiting for this for six months. Mr Vos is not wrong about that, as is often the case. I'll get his argument working on me again and see what I can do with it. I could do it in two ways: I could bring information on the issue of reversal of the burden of proof to the Chamber in isolation, but I could also consider how quickly I can bring that new bill, including this subject, to the House of Representatives. I understand that Mr Vos considers the urgency to be important for that reason too. So I will see if I can somehow respond to his question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u170	The Permanent Chamber of Economic Affairs has made the request. There is therefore at least consensus that this information should be sent to the Chamber, with or without appreciation. I would like to give that consideration to the Minister. I'm just gonna wait and see how this is gonna work out. In English they say "you learn something new every day." This is a procedurally interesting process.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u171	I do not hear a question in it, so the Minister may continue his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u172	What Mr Vos says is true. There was a big rush at the time. The room would soon get something. That was in April and now it's October. This makes Mr Vos very impatient, especially given the importance of the people in Groningen. I can imagine. I can also imagine Mr Vos' last comment. I'll get back to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u173	Fine, you'll continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u174	Mr Graus did not ask any additional questions. The same goes for Mrs Klever. Mr Verhoeven made a general comment. He wondered what the Court's budget law still meant. The Court's budget law is, of course, fully in place. It is my job and the job of the Cabinet to ensure that we come to the Chamber with a budget bill. The Chamber may then examine whether it can agree. The Court may, by means of amendments, indicate that it wishes to change its position on a number of points. Then, for financial reasons, cover, and/or for substantive reasons, I can say that I do not agree with an amendment. In the end, the House's budget law remains unchanged. I have dealt extensively with the TKI payment as to why it is very undesirable, for financial reasons, to do what the Chamber has intended. The Chamber has a budget right, but I have the right to provide the Chamber with information as best I can and to inform it of the considerations that are being discussed by us, by the Cabinet and by me. Then I come to the two amendments tabled by Mr Verhoeven, on small workshops, which were previously referred to as the fablabs, and SURF. Mr Verhoeven asked whether these were only financial considerations. That's not true. I have dealt with both amendments in substance. I have also indicated to Mr Vos why I consider it very unwise to allow extra occasional money to go to SURF from the EZ budget at the moment. However, I do intend to do a number of other things. I've gone into that in detail. I am fully prepared to do so, as I said to Mr Vos. I have therefore also said for reasons of substance to the two amendments tabled by Mr Verhoeven, on fablabs and on SURF that I do not recommend them. Mrs Van Veldhoven asked a question about the area coordinator. In the meantime, she has noticed that the suggestion that originally came from her has been worked out conscientiously. I had to keep doing that in Groningen and Drenthe. I think I've got the two best people available to do the job as area coordinator. I don't want to deviate from that anymore. I've identified those people. I understand that Mrs Van Veldhoven wants the people in the area to be consulted before they are appointed. For the future, I can certainly accept that as a clue from her. It seems to me that this will only benefit the process. I do not like to contradict Mrs Schouten, but I have to do so on the point of MARIN. She said I didn't stick to that 10%. I will not now discuss with her the content of that 10% and the extent to which it is established or not, but the contribution is 17.5%. So that is considerably higher than 10%. Mr Dijkgraaf has asked me if I would like to report on matters relating to legislative proposals which should set out the rules on printing. Each legislative proposal must therefore be subject to a rule-printing paragraph. I will see to it that this is the case. I will report specifically to the Chamber twice a year in the progress reports. On this basis, the Chamber can exchange views with me and has a handle for it. (NL) Mr President, that is what the remaining questions were.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u175	We consider the evaluation of the TO2 institutions to be important. The Minister has that evaluation done, but 2016 is very long. When will we get the results of this evaluation? The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats would prefer it for budgetary treatment so that the results can be taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u176	I apologise; Mr Bosman had indeed raised that point and he should have received a response from me. I'll be happy to give it to you now. I would like to do what Mr Bosman says, but I cannot do that. I can't do that. The TO2 institutions are large institutions, with a lot attached. In view of the savings that we have made, given the ambitions that we have for the future and in view of what is going on with the ECN, which I have discussed with the Chamber, the evaluation is going to be a major operation. I will never get that for the 2017 budget, because that would mean that I would have to do everything in the first half of 2016. I can't. It therefore has an effect from the 2018 budget. In itself that does not have to be objectionable, because of course we have done it well prepared. The decisions we have taken on this matter are now being taken in the organisations. On this point, Mr Bosman will have to be patient a little longer: he will be able to see the effects on the 2018 budget. This means that the evaluation should be completely clear by early spring 2017. It will therefore have to be done thoroughly next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u177	That's clear. The Minister now goes on to advise on the motions. I would suggest keeping it compact, because most of the arguments have already been exchanged and they will be clear to most Members of Parliament. That way we can try to stick to the timetable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u178	In the motion in part No. 22 members of Gesthuizen and Kerstens have identified a real problem. I can report that today the board of the European Patent Organisation has decided to carry out a social audit. What is indicated in the motion must have the attention, in the way that Members Gesthuizen and Kerstens propose. I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. The Bosman c.s. motion. in piece No. 23 concerns the abolition of roaming charges. I've indicated how I feel about this. However, Mr Bosman keeps the pressure on it. I think I have to accept this, so I will leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. I remain prepared to consider whether it is sensible and possible to take a step in the Benelux context earlier, partly because of the importance I attach to cooperation in the Benelux context. The Bosman motion in part No. 24 is about the tourism sector. I have indicated that we have brought the financing of the tourism sector and the NBTC to a level that must be maintained. I said I wanted to make extra money available. Mr Bosman wants to go one step further: he wants to look at this in the Navy paper, depending on the possibilities that may exist. On the condition that Mr Bosman agrees with me that, if more or more additional resources are made available on an occasional basis, other parties must also contribute to this, I leave the opinion on this motion to the Chamber. Other parties must do the same; it must come not only from the government, but also from the provinces and municipalities concerned, and perhaps also from companies. It must therefore be a co-financing project. If Mr Bosman can agree to that explanation, I will leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u179	I note that Mr Bosman nods in agreement, as I note for the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u180	In his motion in part No. 25 Mr Bosman asked the government to inform the Chamber well before the 2017 budget on the progress, allocation of ERDF funds and state funding of the field labs. I'm willing to do that. I shall therefore leave this motion to the House's judgement. Mrs Mulder's motion on item 26 deals with the issue of VAT. When companies, public authorities and educational institutions work together, other VAT rules emerge which make the projects more difficult to realise. It is a very real problem. I am prepared to say to Mrs Mulder that she is right, that the problem needs to be solved. I'm working on solving that. This is not easy, because there are very strict European rules for VAT and because Europe receives part of that VAT revenue. So we cannot simply shift into VAT. So it is something I have to achieve with both finance and Europe. I cannot guarantee what is stated in the operative part of the motion. That's why I can't help but discourage the motion. I can't say I'm gonna take care of it. I can only say I'm gonna do my best. Should Mrs Mulder change her motion in that direction, I will be able to leave the vote on the motion to the House. If she maintains the current text, I advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u181	An effort obligation, therefore, and not a result obligation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u182	I thank the Minister for doing his utmost to get this done. We know it's a tricky problem. We also know that we can achieve a great deal in a region when we have solved this problem. We think that is very important for Limburg and for Chemelot and all the opportunities that lie there. I will amend my motion in this way. Then it's nice that she gets judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u183	The motion in part No. 26 shall be adjusted in the sense of an effort obligation. Then the motion could get judgment Chamber. That has to wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u184	The motion in part No. 27 by Mrs Mulder and Mrs Oosenbrug are about initiatives for high-speed internet in the outskirts. I will save the Chamber a reflection on the amount of connections we already have on the fast internet. I also note that for the part that does not yet have a fast internet, a mobile solution is possible and that we are already doing a great deal to find solutions for those who remain. The motion calls for experimental and control space. If the proposers can accept that my space is limited by European State aid rules, I am prepared to do so. This is what I can do within these state aid rules to enable experiments to be carried out. If that is the explanation that Mrs Mulder and Mrs Oosenbrug can accept, I will leave this motion to the House.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u185	Let me talk to Mrs Oosenbrug about that. I think that's so neat. Then the Minister gets a message about it later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u186	Okay, that's still backup.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u187	In the motion in part No. 28 Ms Mulder asked the government to take into account the strengthening of SMEs' own funds and the mobilisation of private assets, facilitating both direct investment and indirect investment through crowdfunding platforms or funds, when designing the 50 million. For those 50 million, I have the first picture of start-ups and start-ups-related SMEs. Then something has been brought forward from the startup. It's about employee options. You have startups that can't give money to their employees at first. They give us options. If those people get high tax charges for those options a year later, they can't pay it because they didn't get their hands on money. So that's a problem. The second problem is the usual wage system for the initiator, who may not get any money from that company at all, but still have to pay taxes again. The third problem is venture capital. What Mrs Mulder is doing now is developing the issue of venture capital. I think this is a little unbalanced. That is why I am giving my explanation. If she can accept my explanation as a fact, I can accept her motion as a given and leave it to the Chamber, with my explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u188	If that is enough, Mrs Mulder, you can nod in agreement, but you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u189	I assume, however, that these matters can be taken into account as a precondition, as well as the other two points just mentioned by the Minister. Did I hear that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u190	No, because I don't know what I'm gonna do yet. I'm gonna look into all those points. This concerns both the strengthening of capital, the usual wage regime and the way in which we can find a solution to the options. There may also be other things coming forward. I want to make the best possible choice. I will present that choice to the Chamber. The Chamber may have views on this matter and may wish to amend it, whether or not in consultation with me. However, it is too far away for me to consider Mrs Mulder's points as preconditions. I do not mind if any of the three points were clarified by her or by the Chamber, but I cannot accept that as a precondition.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u191	But as a further explanation, the Minister takes these points into account in the overall impact.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u192	Sure, I'm willing to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u193	With that commitment and this interpretation, you leave the judgment to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u194	Yes. In the motion-Agnes Mulder c.s. in piece No. 29 states that the government must compensate for the reduction of the budget to ECN from 2015 to 2016 from the research budget in the SDE+ scheme. I would advise against the adoption of that motion. I have indicated what I am doing with ECN and what I want to prevent in 2016. However, I am not prepared to pay extra money for this now. That doesn't help the process I'm working on. In the motion-Agnes Mulder c.s. in piece No. 30 states that the government must suspend fracking activities pending the seismic risk analysis and the amendment of the Mining Act. We have been doing Fracken since the 1970s. It is a standard processing technique for parts of natural gas extraction in the Netherlands. We've done that more than 200 times. There have never been any problems, as SodM has told us. It is not right to say at once that we should suspend this. There's no reason to do that. In the motion-Agnes Mulder/Dijkgraaf in part No. 31 the government is invited to count the integrated Wbso/RDA proposal on the current applications. I can't do that. I have 23,000 requests. If I have to pass it all on, it's a huge job that doesn't pay much. Based on our knowledge and experience of the different types of applications, we do know what the reasonable expectations are. I have already shared the outcome of this reasonable expectation with the Chamber: I believe that there will be no shift within the Wbso as regards the distribution between SMEs and large companies, also in view of the three elements I raised in the discussion on this subject with the Chamber. I am prepared to share with the Chamber the calculation underlying my communication. If the Chamber could accept that calculation and not ask me to pass on all 23,000 requests, I will leave the ruling on this motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u195	Thank you for at least receiving that calculation. What would the Minister think about a representative sample?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u196	I don't think it's necessary. We're very close to that Wbso/RDA. The proposal comes from ourselves. We make an assessment on the basis of all our knowledge. I think this should be enough for the Chamber. Let us not make it more difficult for ourselves than is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u197	With the Minister's restrictive exegesis, this motion has been given the opinion of the Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u198	The motion-Jan Vos c.s. in piece No. 32 is about a study that we should have the CPB do on social entrepreneurship. I have already mentioned this social entrepreneurship. I think what we would do now with this motion is wrong. We have received an ESC opinion. There's still a cabinet response to that. We would now again say that there should be a further investigation. That doesn't help us much either. I believe that the ESC opinion will be a sound opinion. We will come up with a sound cabinet response to that. Then I don't think it makes sense to have the CPB investigate that again. The Vos motion in part No. So I'm telling you, 32 I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u199	The motion in part No. 32 is not recommended. That gives rise to a question for Mr Vos.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u200	The ESC opinion to which the Minister refers specifically states that the impact of these companies should be better measured. In my view, the request for an investigation from the Central Planning Bureau is really in line with the ESC opinion. I was wondering whether the Minister had sufficiently taken that into account in his consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u201	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Social entrepreneurship is an important phenomenon which is being addressed by the Chamber and now by me. It has also received attention from the ESC and is now receiving attention from the cabinet. Let's come to some conclusions. It may still be that in future we would like to have a more detailed examination of certain things. Then that will happen in one way or another, but I do not want to delay the matter again by waiting for a CPB investigation which I do not think can add much news at the moment. I'm gonna stick to my advice, and I'm gonna dissuade the motion in part No. 32.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u202	32 dissuade. The motion in part No. 33?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u203	On the motion in part No. 33 I will be brief, heard the encouragement to be short. Mr Vos knows with those who have tabled this motion that I do not think so. As far as Terschelling is concerned, I have to follow the procedure properly. We will see the outcome of that, but in order to make a ruling in advance, I would advise against that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u204	Motion in part No. 33 so advise against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u205	Just as I've previously advised against similar motions. In the motion in part No. 34 members of Mr Vos, Mr Bosman and Mr Van Veldhoven are invited to involve the government in the examination of the development of the NIA in the scaling-up of the SEED capital scheme. It should be funds of a minimum size of 20 million. What's written here isn't so good. The SEED capital scheme covers amounts of up to 12 million. For amounts from 12 million we have another arrangement, namely the Dutch Venture Initiative. With that we have a continuous whole. I have no disagreement with Mr Vos c.s. I believe that both the Dutch Venture Initiative and the SEED capital can be involved in the development process. If Mr Vos shares with me that it is not so much about the 20 million, but that it is about involving the existing relevant EZ instruments in the development of the NIA, then I am prepared to leave the judgment on that motion to the Chamber. Perhaps Mr Vos would also be prepared to go through the precise wording with me to see if we can make an improvement for the clarity of all those who follow us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u206	I would like to respond to the Minister's invitation to go through the precise wording in order to reach a consensus.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u207	The motion in part No. 34 therefore receives a final opinion at a later stage.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u208	In his motion in part No. 35 Mr Vos gave a ruling on matters relating to the ECN. It invites the Government to make an arrangement to prevent the loss of crucial knowledge in the field of energy in 2016 and to report to the Court before the end of November. He's just putting a little too much pressure on the case. If I have to do that before the end of November, it will not get the depth that this issue needs. There is a complex issue at ECN that involves several aspects. I am prepared to do this, but I do need more time to do so until the end of this year. I won't try to stretch it till the last day of the year. Maybe I can get it to the Chamber before Christmas. I'll do it as soon as I can, but I won't make it by the end of November. If "November" comes to an end and instead it is "end 2015," I leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u209	In terms of leaf mirror, the motion also becomes a bit quieter when "November" expires, because that is now written with the pen. I call Mr Vos.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u210	Of course, I am concerned that the institute should be given the peace needed to guide the energy transition properly. I understand that by the end of December, that's the deadline we're talking about. I will be informed again and, if necessary, consult the Minister on this matter. At the moment I will not add the rest mentioned by the chairman to the sheet mirror.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u211	We will then wait for the outcome of the consultation and we will have further advice at a later stage.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u212	The issue at ECN is so complicated that I do not want to come up with a half-full report. I will have to do this thoroughly and carefully, as I want to do every time. I do not see any way of achieving that before the end of November. I will give that to Mr Vos. In the motion in part No. 36 The government is invited to reach a sustainable mobility agreement with all relevant actors in the transport sector. In fact, we have enough chords now. We have the coalition agreement and the energy agreement. There's a lot of trouble in that. We have the bail committee. We have made detailed agreements on transport in the mobility area of the energy agreement. I will certainly continue to talk about this with the transport sector. In substance, I have no disagreement with Mr Vos on his vision of zero-emission cars, but I do not wish to re-dedicate a separate sustainable mobility agreement to this. That sucks away from me and my organization too much energy I need to live up to the chords that are already there. I therefore advise against the motion in part No. 36. The motion in part No. 37 and the motion in part No. 38 tabled by Mr Graus, both concern the franchise sector. During a thorough discussion with the Chamber, I said what we are doing there, what the process is at present, what I believe should come out of it, why it should come out as far as I am concerned and what we will have to do if it is not. In fact, we have already exchanged everything on this subject. I do not see the point of tabling further motions on this subject, while we are under pressure in that process. I would therefore advise against both motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u213	We're working on it. I have already tabled these motions once; the motions now tabled are exactly the same. I will continue the two motions until further notice. They will come to the vote at some point, because what the Minister is doing is going to fail.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u214	At the request of Mr Graus, I propose his motions (34300-XIII, Nos. 37 and 38). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u215	In the motion in part No. 39 the government is invited to simplify and shorten public procurement procedures for small and medium-sized enterprises. I have already informed the Chamber before the summer that, in my opinion, better procurement is needed. The evaluation of the Procurement Act shows that this is possible. So I'm working on that. I see Mr Graus' motion as a policy support and leave the vote on the motion to the Chamber. In the motion in part No. 40, tabled by Mr Graus and Mrs Klever, the government is invited to disclose dispaying local authorities and, on a constant basis, to shorten the municipal and/or provincial funds. Last but not least, I'm not prepared. I have already said that I will make it clear which municipalities are not paying, so that the municipal councils will fulfil their role. I have also said that I will see if there is any reason to do the same for the provinces. So the first is already settled, until the second I'm not willing. That is why I have tabled the motion in part No. 40 betrayals.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u216	I have also had an interrupting debate on this with Mrs Schouten of the Christian Union. This file's been going on for years. Years ago, I put this on the agenda, but nothing has improved. At some point the minister will have to punish, because it just doesn't work. The municipalities don't come out either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u217	We don't have to go over the discussion now. The question is whether the second paragraph of the request will be deleted by you or not. If it is maintained, the Minister will discourage the motion and if it is deleted, it could lead to a Chamber of Appeal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u218	No, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u219	That would be a little faint at first, because the Minister has just said that I also know that he is already doing so. I'd think it was a little lame to leave that alone. Then it's a piece of shit.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u220	The motion is maintained in its present form.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u221	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u222	Then I'll tell her off, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u223	That leads to a betrayal. The motion in part No. 40 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u224	In the motion in part No. 41 asks Mr Graus to take a 20% share in Air France-KLM. That is not something I would now like to give a positive opinion on. The President of VNO-NCW has expressed an opinion on this. On behalf of the cabinet, the Minister for Finance, who manages the public participations, responded. Today, too, he has made nuanced statements about this. I think that we should leave it to the nuanced remarks and that the Chamber should not now make a statement as proposed by Mr Graus and Mr Van Dijck. That is why I advise against the motion in part No. 41.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u225	A cartoon has been made of Mr De Boer of VNO-NCW as a parrot who is speaking for me. Why? In the Committee on Air Transport the colleagues who sit with me on that committee know that I have been asking for years if the State can take a part in KLM. Now I'm asking because the need is really starting to get really high. ABN AMRO is sold, I've understood possibly for 15 billion. Now take out the $400 million. That is what this is about. Then you have 20% of the shares. The Minister knows the Floran law: then you can also double that 20% possible to 40% in the future. That's what the French are gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u226	I have the impression that this discussion...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u227	It's all new facts, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u228	Hasn't this been discussed yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u229	I've been having that discussion for years. Now even the Minister of Finance is coming to my side.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u230	Actually, this round is meant to modify a motion or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u231	I don't know if the Minister has any suggestions for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u232	No, this discussion has not been discussed at all in the budget debate. I got that motion. I advise against that motion and advise the Chamber not to make this judgment. As I have said, the Minister for Finance, who manages the state's participations, has spoken about this in a nuanced manner. That is the view of the cabinet. I advise the Chamber not to take a decision as proposed here by Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u233	As this discussion has not yet taken place, I give Mr Graus the opportunity to make a follow-up comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u234	Briefly for the Acts: I said very clearly that I put that in the Committee on Aviation. Even the PvdA is coming my way, the member Monasch. Even Mr Dijsselbloem wants it, if you can believe the messages. So even the Minister of Finance is coming my way. That is why I am asking this Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u235	The minister's been clear about it. It leads to a detachment of the motion in part No. 41.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u236	In the motion in part No. 42 Ms Klever and Mr Graus asked for all fiscal innovation facilities to be abolished. I'm not prepared to do that. I advise the Chamber not to make that statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u237	The motion in part No. 42 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u238	In the motion in part No. 43 Mrs Klever and Mr Graus say that the government should focus on improving the business environment and report to the Chamber on this. I do nothing but focus on improving the business environment, which, as I have already said, is not bad at all in the Netherlands. I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u239	The motion in part No. 43 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u240	In the motion in part No. 44 the government is invited to show ambition in improving lending. I hope that is not the view of Mr Verhoeven, Mr Vos, Mrs Mulder and Mr Öztürk. It is not, of course, the case that we are not showing any ambition to improve lending. If that is the case, 'the government is asking for ambition to continue to be shown to improve lending', I leave it to the Chamber to decide.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u241	The question is whether the word'stay' can be added, Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u242	It rarely happens to me, but I just accidentally omitted this word. It should have been there, of course. This minister is full of ambition. I would like to amend the motion so that it reads as it was once intended: permanent ambition.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u243	That's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u244	The Verhoeven c.s. motion (, No ) has been amended to read as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is important for the Dutch economy that entrepreneurs can find sufficient funding;]] [[whereas the ECB's investigation shows that Dutch entrepreneurs have the lowest risk of credit across the EU;]] [[Whereas the current system of guarantees, loans and grants may be unclear due to the number of around 70 schemes for entrepreneurs;]] [[calls on the Government to improve the system of grant, guarantee and financing schemes by linking schemes smartly where possible;]] [[calls on the government to continue to show ambition in improving lending to businesses and to continue to talk to banks about their social function and responsibility,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She gets no, was no. 44 ().
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u245	In the motion in part No. 45, by Mr Verhoeven, the government is asked to recognise the digital infrastructure (AMS-IX, hosters and housing) as a third mainport, to develop, together with relevant stakeholders, an economic vision to strengthen the position of the digital mainport, and to invest in the implementation of that vision. I'm gonna put in the middle what "invest" is. You can do that in different ways. You can also invest energy and time in something. We come with a new digital agenda for the summer of 2016. I think this is an important part of that. I am ready to address this third mainport in the context of that new digital agenda for 20016 and 2017. I also see this as a third mainport. That explanation, which will be in line with what Mr Verhoeven is trying to do, allows me to leave the opinion on this motion to the House. In this case, I do not even need Mr Verhoeven's confirmation of that agreement, because I know him well enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u246	The Minister leaves the judgment on the motion in part No. 45 to the Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u247	In the motion in part No. 46 asks Mrs Van Veldhoven to use the resources that have been saved, so she sees that it can be returned to households. We know from her that she means that we should do a little less to co-incineration of biomass and a little more to bio-stream. By doing less on biomass, money would be released, which she believes should be redirected back. However, I do not want to do any less to co-incinerate biomass, because I want to achieve those objectives of 14% and 16%. That is why I advise against the motion in part No. 46.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u248	The motion in part No. 46 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u249	The motion in part No. 47 belongs to Mrs Van Veldhoven and Mrs Mulder. They express their views on the appointment of an area coordinator. If they can accept that I have now appointed two coordinators in Groningen and Drenthe and that I think they are very suitable for doing that work, but that I would like to take this as an important pointer from the Chamber for the future, then I will leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u250	The Minister leaves the judgment on the motion in part No. 47, considering the exegesis, to the chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u251	In the motion in part No. 48 The government is asked to use at least 50% of the money remaining in the energy innovation for SMEs. I can't see if there's any money left in this energy innovation. However, if there were money left, we would use it again for top sector policy. I do not want to say in advance that 50% of the money will have to go to SMEs. I don't think it makes any sense to limit us in that way. We also need to create an active whole in this top-level sector policy. We have included a representative of SMEs in each of the top teams. In addition, MIT has received all kinds of additional resources and we see how this is used to involve SMEs. We also see the disproportionate advantage available to SMEs from the Wbso/RDA. On this basis, I do not think that this further limitation of our possibilities makes any sense. That is why I advise against the motion in part No. 48.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u252	In his budget, the Minister notes that there is money left in energy innovation. That's why he's moving that money to the top sector. So that is a shift that the Minister has proposed in his budget in budgetary terms, and not an additional one. I say this to clarify this point. Does the Minister agree with the Group of the Party of European Socialists and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats in the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats in the European Parliament, that it is important that this money should go towards sustainable and renewable innovation in this sector, given the challenges? The minister doesn't want to do less, but he wants to do more to get that 14%. Does he also agree that SMEs deserve special attention in this respect, as in other areas? Maybe that's how we can get closer to each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u253	There is no question of insufficient attention being paid to SMEs; there is plenty of attention being paid to SMEs. Within these top sectors, it is also about ambitions that need to be realised. We often need big companies, which is not a dirty word. We need to look at how we can involve large SMEs in a balanced way. I am convinced that, in view of the possibilities offered by the Van Veen motion by the Chamber for SMEs in the top sectors policy, that is something that has been highlighted. If money becomes available here, that attention will be there again. I therefore see no added value in the Court's ruling on this point. I want the motion in part no. 48 dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u254	In the end, there are two proposals in the motion. The Minister addressed the section on specific attention for SMEs. He calls that disproportionate. D66 considers SMEs to be very important. We disagree on that, but that is the case. The point remains that this money should go to sustainable and renewable innovation. This is in the context of the ambition expressed several times by the Minister to achieve 14%.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u255	I have to say that if we reach 14%, we still have 86% fossil energy and we still have 84% fossil energy by the year 2023, when we reach 16%. It is conceivable that there is relevant innovation aimed at limiting or improving the use of fossil energy during the transition period. I don't want to rule out those possibilities anyway. Of course, my focus is on renewable energy, but fossil energy is not a dirty word in the transition period.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u256	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u257	No, unfortunately, Mrs. Van Veldhoven. You've already had a second chance. The Minister continues to discourage this motion, and I would like to stick to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u258	Mrs Van Veldhoven has two options: either she makes a point of order or she brings up a personal fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u259	Hello, Minister, you can't preach.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u260	I'm gonna change the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u261	Look, the motion is still being reviewed and modified. Perhaps there will be further consultation and a further opinion may follow.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u262	I come to Mrs Schouten's motion on item No. 49. It's also about social entrepreneurship. I have just said the necessary thing to Mr Vos and others who tabled a motion on this matter. It states that existing credit schemes can be better organised for social enterprises. I do not see that at the moment, but I do not rule out the fact that there is attention to this point. At the moment, I think that this is additional to what is stated in the other motion, and I have expressed my view on this point, and I am not contributing to any clarification on this point either. I'm deceiving the motion in part No. Forty-nine. In the motion in part No. 50 the government is invited to define in the new covenant with the MEE companies the agreed savings effect of 9 petajoule in terms of energy saving for companies. In the energy agreement, an additional saving of 9 petajoule has already been agreed for the MEE companies, in addition to the existing measures such as the covenant we have concluded with these companies. I don't want to change that covenant, because it's already a well-adjusted covenant. However, I would like to add that 9 petajoules, which make one-on-one agreements a success. We have created a framework for this and we are going to talk to the companies about it. I'm working on that. It is rather far-reaching for the management of these companies, but it is still necessary; all I have to think about is the Urgenda statement. I therefore say that it has no added value at the moment, which is why I reject this motion by Mrs Schouten and Mrs Dik-Faber. I'll come to the motion in part No. 51. Mrs van Tongeren is constantly going one step further in the direction she considers desirable, which leads to the objective she wants to achieve. I agree with her that there should simply be clarity about the acquisition of homes, the demolition of homes and the offering of new homes to people in Groningen. I already promised her that. Now she says: but then you have to record it all at municipal level. That way we can go one step further each time. I think what I said about it is actually enough. I thought a long way with her, because I agreed with her. She now proposes to go further and to do so by municipality. If that proves to have added value at some point, I am quite prepared to do so, but I think it is too early to make a statement from the Chamber on this matter. That is why I would suggest to Mrs Van Tongeren and Mr Vos that this point should be dropped and that this motion should be retained. They can then see what I am going to make of it, also in the context of the multiannual programme that the National Coordinator comes with. If that is not enough, they can still refer that ruling to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u263	I was pleased with the Minister's commitment, but he saw the provision of information to the Chamber. He was going to let us know what the situation was, but I was mainly concerned about the unrest in Groningen. Indian stories may well be created about families being evacuated and houses being demolished again. That unrest can be removed, because that information is present in Groningen. People just don't find that out easy. Journalists do, they check cases and say: that is true and not there. If that information is more easily unlocked for the Groningers themselves, you take away a lot of unrest. That municipal level is in there, because I have heard that sometimes because of privacy it is not allowed to say that it was in that or that street in or in that small village. You can't do that under the privacy rules. I came up with this because it's not allowed by village. If you make it clear that in municipality X a home has been evacuated or a family evacuated, you do not cross the privacy rules. That is the intention of this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u264	I would like to return to the Minister's suggestion that this motion be retained. Will you allow that to depend on the Minister's reply?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u265	I'm not ruling out that this is the best way. What Mrs Van Tongeren says seems reasonable to me. If I inform the Chamber, I can also make that information accessible to Groningen in an easy way. This could be done via an existing website. I do not exclude the municipal level in advance, but I would ask the Chamber to give me the opportunity to elaborate on this. This will also be done within the framework of the multiannual programme. I think it would be wise for Mrs Van Tongeren to continue the motion. Then, once she has received the results of my work, she can see if it is still necessary to make this statement. That seems to me to be more sensible than making this statement already. I think we'll get farther if the motion is held.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u266	Does this explanatory statement give reason to hold the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u267	No, because there's been trouble for three years. I don't think this is such a difficult question. Hans Alders doesn't have to meet for so long and think about taking care of this. So I would like to know whether my colleagues in the House of Representatives find this information or whether Groningers are entitled to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u268	Then the Minister remains the motion in part No. 51, therefore, dissuade them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u269	I agree with you, Mr President. I come to the Van Tongeren motion on part No. 52. It calls on the government to provide insight into the impact of climate change on the value of fossil investment for the Dutch economy through a relevant publication, e.g. the budget of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. So that's what companies see. I think it is up to the companies that invest in the exploitation of fossil energy to do so. I am also pleased that companies are investing in this because it is necessary to keep our world going. For our economy, our jobs and our prosperity, it is still necessary for the time being to obtain adequate amounts of fossil energy. In order for that to be won and used responsibly, it is necessary to invest in it. So I think it is up to those companies themselves to make the investments they are making transparent. The EZ budget is about the revenue and expenditure of the Ministry and not about Shell, Exxon Mobil or any oil company. We are shareholders of EBN, but it has no fossil reserves on its balance sheet. So I see no need and no point of reference to report on this in the EZ budget. That is why I advise against the motion in part No. 52 by Mrs Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u270	I'd like a brief response, Mrs. Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u271	I have one more question. The Minister started the budgetary treatment with a small reflection on the state of the Dutch economy. This is seen by several central bank governors as a risk to the economy. The question is whether the Minister would like to comment annually on his estimates of this risk. That does not necessarily have to be done in the budget, it may also be done in one of the many other reports and monitors we receive. There's a threat to the Dutch economy, whether you like it or not. My question is whether the Minister would like to give his views on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u272	Does this interpretation lead to an amendment of the opinion on this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u273	No. I advise the motion, but it is not that I would not be prepared to share with the Chamber my views on this interesting subject on an occasion and to discuss it with it. It's not like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u274	The Van Tongeren motion in part No. 52 is not recommended. That does not alter the fact that reflections on this theme can certainly be given a place.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u275	In her motion in part No. 53 Ms Van Tongeren asked the government to reconsider investments in fossil energy and, in particular, not to include shale gas in the energy vision. Soon there will be a motion stating that Terschelling, Woerden and Groningen should no longer be included in the energy vision and that, of course, we should not include nuclear energy in it, just like North Pole oil and gas from Russia. We're not gonna get anywhere with that. In the energy vision and the Energy Report, I have to tell the Chamber about the future of energy supply. There will be a report on this and a dialogue on it. In addition, we come up with a vision. Let me have the freedom to visualize everything relevant to it in front of the Chamber. I therefore advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u276	The motion in part No. 53 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u277	In her motion in part No. 54 asks Mrs Van Tongeren to make green deals with the municipalities. I do not know whether I can leave the opinion on this motion to the Chamber because I already work excellently with municipalities, which are also party to the energy agreement. I've already made green deals with them and I'm gonna close more. If the Chamber asked me to make green deals, I already do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u278	To keep closing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u279	I leave the judgment on this motion to the Chamber, but with all due respect, it has no added value.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u280	The judgment on the motion in part No. 54 is left to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u281	In the motion-Dijkgraaf/Van Tongeren in part nr. 55 the government is invited to financially facilitate investment by private investors in tidal energy. I value the development of innovations in the field of renewable energy, such as tidal energy. I have also mentioned a major initiative taken by Huisman. I believe that party is putting 12 million into it, of which 4 million in government support. The intention is to innovate at the Oosterscheldedam at this point. Texel is already innovating on this point. Various possibilities are thus being exploited and explored, but it is not desirable to pursue separate policies for this technique without it being clear whether this form of energy can make a cost-effective contribution to the Dutch energy transition. At present, there are opportunities to support this goal, such as the DEI, the energy innovation incentive grant, the SDE+, which offers opportunities for innovation stimulation, and regional and European funding. I think that's enough. I advise the Chamber not to make the ruling in order to facilitate this separately.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u282	Nor was it our intention to create a separate game for tidal energy, but within the entire policy of the Ministry and the Minister to ensure that these arrangements can be used. So these techniques can move a step further. That's right, it's happening on a small scale now. It will have to prove on a larger scale whether it can be cost-effective. That's the phase we're naming. We want to make use of this from the point of view of policy to ensure that these techniques move a step further.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u283	Does this explanation lead to a reconsideration of the Minister's opinion on the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u284	The temptation is great, because I do not disagree with Mr Dijkgraaf on this point. I already told you what we do at Texel and at the Brouwersdam and the Oosterscheldedam. I have indicated that there are several possibilities for doing what. If the Court were to give this ruling, the government would have to make it financially easier if private investors wanted to scale up. Well, then it looks like we're gonna have to do some extras again, but that's not my intention. I say to Mr Dijkgraaf: if he sees it as support for policy, I leave it to the Chamber. But I think he meant something extra has to be done. I wouldn't want the Chamber to make that statement if it were up to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u285	This could lead to an adaptation of the text. We would do one question per round, so I cannot give Mr Dijkgraaf the floor again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u286	I appeal to your flexibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u287	No. A group chairman has recently called for a strict President of the Chamber, and I would like to join him.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u288	However, I will look into the discussion with Mr Dijkgraaf in order to look at the text of that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u289	Then there is a further opinion on the Dijkgraaf/Van Tongeren motion in part No. 55. Then we're at the motion in part no. 56.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u290	The motion in part No. 56 was tabled by Mr Dijkgraaf and Mr Van Veldhoven, but I will be the last to accuse Mr Dijkgraaf of partner swapping. It says here that the government must ensure that the budget for the demonstration scheme for energy innovation projects is in line with the sustainability statement next year and beyond. I think that this should indeed be done as Mr Dijkgraaf and Mrs Van Veldhoven put it, so I shall leave it to the House to decide on the motion for a resolution. 56 to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u291	Motion 56: Judgement Room. Then we're at the motion in part no. 57.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u292	The motion in part No. 57 of Mr Dijkgraaf and Mr Bosman asked the government to inform the Chamber by means of the Energy Report of what is going on in the field of thorium energy. The Chamber has shown an interest in this and wants us to consult with TU Delft experts and involve them in the energy dialogue. I don't think it's wrong to include the element thorium in our work. That is why I shall also leave the vote on the motion for a resolution on item No. 57 to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u293	Motion 57: Judgement Room. Then we're at the last motion, in part no. 58.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u294	The Öztürk motion in part No. 58 calls on the government to examine in broad terms how banks can be encouraged to provide more loans to SMEs. Banks are already doing a lot of funding for SMEs. In the first quarter there will be 135 billion in bank financing to SMEs. I work with banks on solutions such as the credits they finance, or the Financing Guide. I think the banks are taking responsibility. We also work with them, for example when it comes to the application of the guarantee scheme, the SME scheme. There's plenty of contact with the banks. I advise the Chamber not to make the statement that Mr Öztürk is asking the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u295	The motion in part No. 58 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u296	Mr Verhoeven was not entirely satisfied with the assessments of the amendments. He would have liked to have some more positive judgments here and there. I assume that the large number of motions that I have left to the House's opinion will, however, be of great satisfaction to Mr Verhoeven, among others.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u297	This sounds like a Band-Aid on the wound. I give Mr Dijkgraaf the opportunity to say something, provided that he does not have the motion that has already been tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u298	I wanted the motion in part no. 55 to the effect that the operative part is replaced by the operative part: calls on the Government to facilitate this financially within the existing arrangements.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u299	You add: within the existing arrangements. Does this lead to an adaptation of the opinion of the executive?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u300	I think that Mr Dijkgraaf and Mrs Van Tongeren do not want us to facilitate by definition. We must take these requests seriously and see how they can be met within the existing arrangements. In this positive way, I am prepared to look at these requests. If that is the intention of Mr Dijkgraaf and Mrs Van Tongeren, I have no objection to the wording he has now given and I leave the opinion on that motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u301	The motion is therefore being changed. As a result, the Minister gives her the pre-advisation: judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u302	The Dijkgraaf/Van Tongeren motion (No ) has been amended to read as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas tidal energy has considerable potential, both in terms of sustainable generation and as an export product;]] [[whereas private investors want to invest in demonstrating that tidal energy can also work on a large scale;]] [[calls on the Government to facilitate this financially within the existing arrangements,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She gets no, was no. 55 ().
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-14.u303	The votes on the motions tabled are on Tuesday after the coming autumn recess. The votes on the amendments and the budget itself are, of course, at a later date. I would like to thank all of you, and in particular the executive, for your input, commitment and advice. Before I suspend the meeting, I wish you another joyful evening of work.
