ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-8.u1	I give the floor to the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-8.u2	Mr. Chairman. There have been a number of fundamental and important issues raised in the first period, which I understand. I will try to provide adequate answers to that in my contribution. I would like to speak briefly about the reason for the legislative proposal before us. After that, I will go into "that will be the most important part," I think, on the underlying argument, the basis of the proposal. Mr Schouwenaar and others have asked a number of fundamental questions about this. Then I'm going to say something about the numbers. Mr De Graaf and others have asked about the intended impact on the reduction of numbers and what is the consistent line in underpinning the proposal. Finally, I will deal with a number of remaining points. First of all, I would like to point out that it was concluded in the first period that the reason for this bill was the limited budget for the AIVD. That was a reason to go through the whole budget again critically, to see whether all the posts in it could perhaps not be filled out differently, whether it was necessary and whether it all belonged there. In this context, we encountered a number of services provided for third parties which, in the government's view, were in fact operating costs attributable to the beneficiaries. Moreover, the proceeds of this measure have already been taken into account in the budget policy unchanged. The order of magnitude is up to 6 million euros. The number of security investigations is not determined by the Minister of the Interior, but by the relevant Minister of State. For the most part, that is the Minister of Security and Justice. If that number goes down, then the Minister for Security and Justice is going to try to reduce the costs, of course, and the gap that would be struck if this proposal were not to succeed. However, it is that order of magnitude. Mr De Graaf said in his first term that this is not about hundreds of millions. That's right. It's only a few million. For the record, however, I note that the entire budget of the AIVD amounts to 200 million. I am glad that it is not hundreds of millions, but that is what a few million is about as a percentage of the AIVD budget. Compared to, for example, the increase of 40 million for jihadism and the monitoring of Europe's eastern borders over the past year, the amount is indeed significant. This was the reason to take a critical look at this. We in the public sector have said that where there is a need for a security investigation elsewhere in the public sector for the process that is being carried out there, it is being passed on. This has now been established and does not need to be amended. As far as the private sector is concerned, it needs a legislative change. That is the proposal before us. Let me start with Mr Schouwenaar, but the debate has been addressed by many in the same way that the justification was rather broad-based. A number of arguments were put forward in abundance. When you put these arguments under the microscope, you have to ask yourself what their carrying capacity is. Let me start with Mr Schouwenaar's first. I quote what he quoted in his contribution as the cabinet position. To be honest, I have not been able to find it literally in the contributions of the cabinet. That's a good thing, because I don't agree. However, I do think it is precisely the pinching point. This is the view which I do not share: the government is responsible for national security, which serves as an umbrella over our country, under which companies can carry out their activities and make profits, but then they must also contribute to the burden. If that were generic, I wouldn't be in favour of that. After all, that is in fact a blank cheque to say: everyone has some safety, so if they still need money at the AIVD we can get it from a company because they all have an interest in national security. That must not be the reasoning. As far as I am concerned, the essence of the reasoning is the answer to Mr Schouwenaar's question: where is the business interest now? I will try to convince him that the business interest lies in the fact that they can only offer the product they offer, namely aviation, if it is done in a safe way. Otherwise, the government wouldn't approve of that either. Within this context, all kinds of conditions are imposed by the government. Those conditions are, for example, that people are not allowed to bring liquids in at the gate, that their luggage is searched, that they can be searched, that they go through such a gate and that staff do so. All these costs are incurred when the company actually has no choice. They are prescribed acts which must be carried out there. However, they are necessary in order to be able to market the product "air travel'. If people speak also the liberal in me, because then I try to look purely at the cost allocation, and from the Netherlands want to go to Switzerland for winter sports, they can go by car. It's up to them. Furthermore, the safety of that car is also regulated. Even then, people have to pay for it themselves. When they do so by plane, the scale at which something could go wrong with safety is such that the government demands what happens to search people who travel along, to the staff, to the crew on board, and also to the investigation that is taking place with regard to the intentions of the people who, for example, are in the cockpit behind the handlebar. All these demands will be passed on. This means that the security charge at Schiphol Airport is EUR 250 million per year. The traveller pays €12.82 per ticket for the fact that these are intrinsic costs of aviation. The point is that EUR 3 million would be added to the last part of the whole chain, namely that there is no security risk for the people who are manning it all or women. That would increase the security charge from €12.82 to €12.95 per ticket.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-8.u3	One question, just for my understanding. Are the costs of patrolling at Schiphol Airport charged by the Royal Marechaussee and the police in the security charge?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-8.u4	That's so far outside my wallet, I should check it out. In any case, I know that this is the case for the cost of boarding, also for the cost of checking and checking the luggage there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-8.u5	Well, that depends on who's doing it. If they are employees of the airline or of Schiphol Airport who do so on initiative, I understand that this is reflected in the ticket. I was talking here about the actions of government officials, such as police officers and the Royal Marechaussee, who operate at Schiphol Airport, who are patrolling and visible. That's government expenses. My question is whether they will be passed on in that passenger ticket or whether Schiphol or the airline will have to pay for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-8.u6	The discussion about passing on police costs to social activities is a very broad one. Mr De Graaf referred to this in his own term. I mention the police charges at soccer games. Although there might be a rationality in calculating it, the legislator has always been very reluctant to do so. After all, you wouldn't want to give the impression that police surveillance is for sale to the person who could pay. Again, keep me for the better. As far as I'm aware, the police surveillance hasn't been paid for anywhere, not even at Schiphol.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-8.u7	Finally, Mr De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-8.u8	I think what the Minister says is true on this point. I am asking because I want to know what the fundamental difference is between that state-trading, in carrying out a public task, and doing research for the purpose of giving a statement of no objection to a trust function in relation to national security.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-8.u9	When it comes to an explanation of behaviour or where the Hoogovens have to incur costs in order to meet national security requirements, it is, of course, logical that these are allocated to the process as operating costs. This also makes it possible to pay purely in the market. Citizens who want to go to Switzerland from the Netherlands and do so by car will incur other costs. If they want to fly, they make costs that scale up with the number of people flying. In the end, if people choose to go by air, that is fine, that is excellent, but the full costs to be incurred must be allocated. This includes what is necessary to enable a safe flight. The great precedent is that these are also government regulations for checking baggage, searching people and supervising the whole process. Part of it is that people are sure that the people who work there do not walk around with suicidal tendencies or otherwise have wrong plans. These are attributable operating costs arising from the requirements that can and must be imposed on safety. This is also the case in many other places in Dutch society. I mentioned Hoogovens, but the nuclear power plant can also be considered. There must be no doubt about the people sitting there with their fingers by the red button. This must be monitored as closely as possible. The costs incurred by the services in this context can be charged at any time. Within aviation it is €87 per person. That is not an astronomical amount, but because 38 000 of such investigations take place every year, not all of which are cheap; there are A- and B-categories of research anyway, there are a number of millions. For a small service like the AIVD a gap in the budget would be struck if those costs were not passed on. Again, within the government we do the same. This is in fact the essence of my answer to Mr Schouwenaar. He mentioned five arguments...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-8.u10	I would just like to respond to the remark that there is a gap in the budget if these costs are not passed on. I think we need to formulate it very carefully, otherwise the suggestion might be raised that if the Chamber does not accept the bill, the Chamber will be responsible for breaking a hole in the AIVD budget. The Minister cannot have based that budget on a law that has not yet been adopted. I do not think the Minister's wording is correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-8.u11	The multi-annual budget picture is supported by a number of measures. One of these measures is to pass on these costs. This requires a legal basis. If the law at issue were to fall here, despite the fact that the budget has been adopted, even by the First Chamber, this would pose a problem in carrying out the tasks of the AIVD. Mr De Graaf said that this is not about hundreds of millions, but he forgot to say that the AIVD budget does not count hundreds of millions. That budget is only 200 million. The failure to pass on would therefore create a serious problem for the performance of the tasks of the AIVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-8.u12	I get that. This means that the gap is created by the fact that the government may have incorporated something into the budget too quickly, when it was not sure whether it was borne by the people's representatives. That is the way it should be formulated.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-8.u13	I thank Mr De Graaf for this addition, but the gap remains. We agree that the gap would arise. That hole should then be closed by doing less to other core tasks of the AIVD. By the way, the implementation of the austerity package has been discussed with the House of Representatives in a general sense. This aspect has also been mentioned. In that sense, therefore, this aspect is not surprising. Indeed, the justification requires a change of law. That's what we're here for. It is entirely up to the First Chamber to accept or not accept that amendment of the law. I will pass by the five points mentioned by Mr Schouwenaar. Eventually, these points coincide in the main question: what is the obvious interest in underpinning the legislative proposal? It is clear, of course, that people are comfortable with reliable and loyal staff. That is why it may be useful to obtain the said statement. However, I can well imagine that a company will be able to satisfy itself of the loyalty of its staff without that declaration. At most, that statement can make a certain contribution to this. In fact, Mr Schouwenaar's third argument coincides with the first. Customers benefit from security. In fact, one should not even transport these customers from the government if that could not happen in a safe way. In that case, there could be no aviation at all. I have already gone into the fourth argument. All safety costs, for example when boarding passengers, but also on board the aircraft, are part of the security charge. A comparison is made with the cost of a permit. I am ready to say immediately that this is a different case, but the Council of State has held that, strictly speaking, the payment by the person benefiting from public transactions was discussed in that context about a licence.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... However, the Council of State stated that this should not mean that there should be fewer safety investigations at a time when this should be done on the basis of cost awareness. In fact, we need to cut the process in half. The question of which functions require a security investigation must be answered by the trade minister, in this case the Minister of Security and Justice. That's the only criterion. That is an immediate answer to Mr De Graaf's question as to whether safety requires such a safety investigation. Otherwise, there is no legal basis for the AIVD to infringe privacy in order to conduct the security investigation. That's the only criterion. However, when setting up the business processes, the aviation sector can realise that not everyone has to be placed in the highest safety category. It depends on how these processes are organized. Let me give you an example from another sector that is covered, namely the nuclear sector. One can set up the business process in such a way that Jan and all can be in the control room. For all these people, a security investigation must be carried out. However, one can also decide to restrict access to the control room to those who absolutely need to be there. The rest won't get in. In this way, less security research is needed. In my opinion, the price incentive will be nil. On an annual expenditure of 250 million for the security charge, it will generate an additional 3 million for the aviation sector. That's negligiblely small. I hope that for other reasons the number of safety functions will be reduced. Once again, it is the Minister of Trade who decides which functions need or do not need research. I shall move on to the other points that have been raised. Firstly, Mr Schouwenaar's question on the formation of a pool. The formation of a pool is in fact not permitted under the Intelligence and Security Services Act. The Council of State concludes that there must be an individual reason for someone to be eligible for a security investigation. Mr Meijer spoke extensively about the situation at the time of the Cold War and the role of the BVD. I do not want to confirm or deny at this point that this role has been played in the way he has outlined. I would just like to say that the AIVD is doing everything in its power to behave properly and operate within the limits of the law. It is not appropriate to recognise a category of "our kind of people" that is allowed to join while others are not allowed to do so. That would, of course, not fit within the criteria of the Wiv. Both parliamentary control and the CTIVD supervisor will monitor this. The above also applies to the burden of proof. It's a close listener. Failure to give a statement of no objection may mean that someone cannot get a job, so the criteria must be precise. These criteria derive from the Safety Investigation Act. Should there be any discussion about this, it should be strictly conducted with the Minister for Security and Justice. I'm not talking about identifying functions that require a security investigation. This also applies to certain cases where it is decided, after a number of years, that no extension of the declaration of no objection can be granted. That decision can be relied on under administrative law, which is a far-reaching step. The burden of proof is an important point for Mr Meijer. If someone has spent a number of unexplained years in the middle of a distant continent in the past, this may raise a problem, because one cannot be sure what the person concerned has done there. This may lead to a claim for certain categories of functions that there is too large a gap in a CV to be sure, which leads to the non-extendance of a statement of no objection. That's the system of the Safety Investigation Act. Mr Van Dijk made the important point that we must ensure that safety functions are always designated as such. That is the case, because it is done independently by the Minister for Security and Justice. Mr De Graaf asked: what about the costs? What exactly is that about? What about those two arguments? What was the dominant argument for this bill? I have already answered those specific questions. He quoted me. Then let me quote him. The process is that such an investigation will only take place if there is a real need for it in the context of national security. I have outlined this two-stage process, in which the organisation itself sets up its own organisation and then the Minister of Justice looks at which of these functions a security investigation entails. We have talked about private profit. Finally, Mr De Graaf has already announced a motion, if I have understood him correctly, on the broad theme of passing on security-enhancing measures. He also involved the entire police. That'll open up a huge discussion. He himself referred to football violence and the question of how to deal with its costs. I hope that we will be able to separate this discussion from the legislative proposal before us. Nor am I free to undertake such an investigation. That is 100% in the area of security and justice, because that is the subject we would be discussing. So I'm not in favour of doing that right now, but if the First Chamber wants to debate with the Minister of Security and Justice about passing on security, justice and police activities, that's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-8.u14	The Minister rejects something I didn't say, so that makes it easy. What I have asked is for the government to consider the principle of passing on the costs of public transactions and services, together with a policy framework. I didn't relate it to security and not just to the area of security and justice. So I ask the Minister of the Interior, on behalf of the government, to respond to that suggestion. If he rejects them, it may indeed be good that a motion for a resolution should be tabled in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-8.u15	It is good that Mr De Graaf has explained this, because it is now completely clear to me. If you broaden this theme to include all public transactions and services, then you are also talking about free education, the cost of childcare and all kinds of other functions that are offered free of charge or are not offered free of charge, then it is in fact about the political debate on the following questions. Which topics are fully charged according to the principle of profit? Which are subsidised? Which ones are provided completely free of charge? Then I see whether the government is not in a position to give a useful answer in the broadest sense, because that is really a question of political preference. Mrs. De Boer asked about the proceeds. I mentioned it. I did say that this is a maximum, because the Minister of Justice is already in the process of reducing the number of security functions. This could mean that the costs involved are less than the 6 million estimated in 2012. This could mean that the gap that would be struck if this proposal were not supported would perhaps be smaller than the 6 million. At least that's the order of magnitude. It quoted the view of the Council of State. I just quoted it. Mr Holdijk raised a point to which I replied in general terms in response to Mr Schouwenaar's contribution. I thought I answered all the questions with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-8.u16	Thank you. We have now reached the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Schouwenaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-8.u17	Madam President. I thank the Minister for his reply. He has answered a number of the questions raised on behalf of my group. As far as I am concerned, they have been adequately answered, but there remains the point that he himself pointed out as the key point. That's why I want to start with that. What the Minister said, I will summarize it in my own way, as I have tried before. In retrospect, I didn't quite manage to sum up the government argument, but well, you have to do it. The Minister used the example of civil aviation. He said there's a whole set of safety regulations before you get a plane into the air. You just have to live up to that, simply put. I have the impression that he'll ignore the fact that you could also distinguish types of security. I would just like to say that it is easy for us to call it national security and industrial safety. The staff, the equipment, the gates, the instructions to the staff and the checking that the staff is working properly, I call all the business processes. That's a responsibility of the company. The costs for this are also borne by that company. In addition, there is national security. I'm not going to venture to give a definition of that. That would be beyond my powers, but I would like to mention some features that are relevant in this context. First of all, we are talking about a certain scale. A single accident is not a matter of national security, however sad. He mentioned a number of examples: the sea dikes, the police, civil aviation, defence, gas supply and drinking water supply. I am glad he mentioned the nuclear power plant and blast furnaces as well. Secondly, it is a task of the government which it also carries out with its own people police officers, military officials, judicial officials, AIVD officials and foreign service officials and own resources. Think of the monopoly of violence and all kinds of privacy violations that are not normally allowed. Think about deprivation of liberty. It is therefore a task of its own that is carried out with its own people and with its own resources. Thirdly, it is the characteristic that benefits everyone. Maybe not everyone benefits from every component of national security and not at the same time. There may be a certain periodicity in it, but almost everyone benefits from it. You can't get out of that safety umbrella, even if you want to. In my view, this has the logical consequence that everyone pays for it through the general funds. I think I still have to maintain this point of view, despite the fact that the Minister has mentioned two arguments which do give me some thought but which do not cause me to hesitate for the time being. The Minister said this. I'm gonna put it back together my way. If I don't do it right, I'll hear about it in round two. He said in the first place: it is simply prescribed by the government. Air carriers must comply with this requirement. That is simply imposed on them by the government. That's right, but here too, it's good to make a distinction. It is sometimes said that the government is a multi-headed monster. I wouldn't want to do that, but the government does act in different ways. One of these is the capacity of guardian of national security, for which it carries out its own tasks with its own qualified people. Another of these is the government as legislator. That role is not unknown to us here. In this capacity, the government imposes regulations on everyone. However, this does not affect the role and responsibility of the government as the guardian of national security. We cannot wash that away through the regulatory and legislative tasks of the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-8.u18	Are you watching your time, Mr Schouwenaar?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-8.u19	Honestly, no, but I'm glad you do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-8.u20	You gave up five minutes, and here we are.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-8.u21	Yeah. I still have a few words, which I still...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-8.u22	It's gonna be real quick, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-8.u23	Thank you. I'll do it with less words.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-8.u24	The longer you talk to me, the longer it takes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-8.u25	Okay, okay... The Minister mentioned the example that we go on holiday by car and can choose. However, even if there are a lot of people going by car, civil aviation remains an outstanding concern. All requirements and problems, and therefore all measures, benefits and costs thereof, remain intact. The observation is therefore correct, but this is not an argument that would enable national security and passerby to be involved in civil aviation. In my view, national security is very well separated from the large collection bin of industrial safety, which companies have to comply with. The government takes care of national security. So it can also be charged separately to all of us. That is still the starting point. However, our willingness to convince us is still there. I am therefore looking forward to the Minister's response, as was the case with the conclusion of my first round. I apologize for the delay.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-8.u26	You haven't taken as much time as in the first term, but it's pretty close.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-8.u27	Mr. Chairman. In my first term, I asked the Minister four questions. The first concerned the history of the past. The Minister has given a very safe answer. That is appropriate to the subject matter. He gives no judgment over the past and no confirmation or denial of it. That can also be significant in itself. In any case, the Minister's conclusion is that I am pleased that there should not be a system in which 'our kind of people' can carry out these functions and in which other people who do not belong to that inner circuit are not allowed to do so. The good intention is indicated, without real clarity. The second point I was asking about is the formation of the pole. Mr De Graaf of D66 has also given special consideration to this. He said that only those who actually have to perform a safety function should undergo investigation. The Minister is now making a very direct statement about the fact that polarisation is not allowed. That is clear in itself. However, the question is how it is handled. In practice, the phenomenon seems to occur. It cannot and will not be allowed in the future, but it may well happen in the future. Then how is it handled? There should be a little more clarity about that. My third question concerned the voluntary organizations which have an additional wish. Mrs De Boer has noted that there may also be negative aspects to this wish, and that is quite understandable. I passed the wish out of that circle anyway. I note that the Minister did not go into that. My fourth question was about the terms'sufficient' and 'insufficient'. The Minister says that it is also in another law. That's right. He mentions the argument of too big a hole in a curriculum vitae. That may indeed be a problem. I can sympathise with the suspicion that during that period the person concerned has done something very strange that relates very badly to the function to be performed. At the same time, it retains the element of possible arbitrariness. There is no guarantee against that. I come now to the point of 'criticism expressed by others'. Mr Schouwenaar on behalf of the VVD and, to a lesser extent, Mr De Graaf on behalf of D66 referred to the question of company co-financing. Unlike the VVD, our objections lie more with the cardigan pocket method within the government, namely the transfer to other governments, than with the transfer to companies. Those companies are not supposed to be too pathetic and undertake their activities on a profit-making basis. On the other hand, it is argued that the companies do not derive any direct advantage from it and do not affect the nature of the investigation, but do have to comply with a broader public obligation. That's true. I have to say, therefore, that this source of income is not the strongest part of the government's reasoning. Once again, our objections do not focus on this. However, we can imagine that others do object. The question then is how we can find a solution to this problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-8.u28	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for the answers he gave in the first term and the discussion we had at the time. I come back to the two points I had intended to raise in the first term. The first point was the justification for this bill. This point has not become easier after the Minister's reply in the first term, because the Minister has actually taken back one of the two reasons for this bill. The Minister has, I believe, literally said that the price incentive is 'negligiblely small' and will be minimal, or minimal. At the same time, he has explicitly mentioned this price incentive as the second motive for this bill. That wasn't an accident. He said it again with so many words in a reply to this bill to this Chamber. The Minister expects that the cost overcalculation will focus more closely on the need to identify functions as a trust function. That's the price incentive. Now, however, the Minister says that this is virtually irrelevant and negligible. That does not strengthen the argument for this bill. The question then is whether we believe that we can and must charge the cost of a public service mission which is a task for the performance of the public service function, namely the protection of the national security interest to a company or other body, when it is necessary for the public authorities to assess whether the worker concerned is a good person from the point of view of national security. So that's not a business interest, it's a government interest. That's dominant. If it were a business interest, the government could also say that it does not matter whether a company makes it a trust function and whether a company wants to screen the person concerned. It would not be a matter of national security for the public authorities. The Minister is therefore very intelligent in this respect, but not very consistent. Like Mr Schouwenaar, I would, of course, like to have every opportunity in the second term to consider the Minister's response. However, I wonder if he is still able to build up new arguments on this issue. Which brings me to the responsibility of the trade minister. If a company believes that a particular function should be classified as a trust function, for which Pietje would like to have a trade minister, first establish that there is a trust committee, then we are going to do research. Can the Minister for Security and Justice say: looking at the organisation of Schiphol and airlines, I do not think that is true? That shouldn't be a trust function at all. You'd say that's the responsibility of the trade minister. Otherwise, all the functions of trust could simply be determined by this minister. It's about the expertise the ministry has. Is that right? Can the Minister say: looking at your organisation, I do not think you should regard it as a trusting function at all? In my first term, I asked the government to consider the question of principle when services for the performance and exercise of the public service mission are ripe for passing on or not passing on. What are the criteria for this? What principles should be taken into consideration? I have asked the Minister whether the government is prepared to consider this and provide the beginning of a policy framework. Unfortunately, the Minister threw that off with an extremely broad arm swing. That forces me to table the next motion, which I am pleased to note is that there is broad support for it. The President shall: Mr Thom de Graaf, Mr Lokin-Sassen, Mr Schouwenaar, Mr Koole, Mr De Boer, Mr Holdijk and Mr Backer proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, to date, there is no consistent policy line within the government on the question of passing on costs of public service tasks to citizens and businesses;]] [[Whereas, in order to ensure legal certainty, it is desirable to develop such a consistent policy line by establishing a framework for the consideration of transactions and services which may be subject to calculation;]] [[calls on the Government to send both Chambers a consideration of cost-sharing within one year, including an incentive for a balancing framework,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33673-D]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-8.u29	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for his reply, which was very brief. Often that is good, but in this case the answer was perhaps very short. I note with Mr De Graaf that, in his reply, the Minister may have abandoned more than half of the basis of the bill. The secondary objective, which is to reduce the number of safety investigations, does not seem to be the issue anymore, because he says that the price incentive is nil. All the questions that have been asked about this reduction in the number have not been answered by the Minister. If that whole argument is overboard, I get it. If the Minister says that this is still the secondary objective, I would like those questions to be answered. The Minister is actually hanging up a whole story on why it is logical to pass on the costs of safety investigations, particularly in civil aviation. He uses as an example that costs of other security measures are also passed on. That confirms, on the one hand, my view that the problem is mainly with the cost of civil aviation, so that you should see how to solve it. On the other hand, I don't think the equation is entirely valid. For other security measures are safety measures that companies, or civil aviation, or Schiphol itself, must take. That's what the government's terms are for. The company must take those measures and bear the costs. Security investigations are services provided by the government. The security investigation is being conducted by the government. It can only be done by the government. The company can't hire another agency to do that. It is therefore a specific public task and the question of whether it is justified to pass it on. I'm not saying, by definition, that it should never be. I only miss the balancing framework and the criteria when that kind of cost is passed on. I haven't heard an answer to that. That is precisely the basis of the motion that has just been tabled by Mr De Graaf. When can we charge the government for tasks performed exclusively by the government to pass on to citizens and businesses? As long as we do not have a satisfactory answer to that question, we do not see why it would be reasonable to pass on these costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-8.u30	I understand the Minister can answer immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-8.u31	Mr. Chairman. I will use my second term mainly to discuss the motion. But I still owe answers to Mr Schouwenaar and others. First of all, I will. Mr Schouwenaar summarized my position well. Thank you for that. He spoke of two different types of safety: industrial safety and national security. I will try to convince him that it is actually the scale and not the nature of the security risk that arises when a risk is referred to as a national security. When someone sits in a truck and is placed in a position to cause a serious car accident, in which he not only risks his own life, but also that of other road users, then that risk, which is there, is not weighed so heavily that a safety investigation is needed to become a truck driver. But when you work in civil aviation, you do. That's because the scale at which something could go wrong is bigger. The same applies to the manager of a fireworks store. There is no need for a safety investigation, even though it can cause an accident which will also cause serious damage to others. But when someone is on the switch at a nuclear power plant, the risk is so great that there is a potential breach of national security. I would like to say that, as far as I am concerned, it can also be about business safety in the cases we are talking about here, but that the scale at which it is at stake is such that the customers of the company and perhaps others too are at risk, but above all the customers of the company are at risk which the government believes should be covered up. The government itself does so on a small scale. When driving a vehicle, the government asks that a driving licence be held. The cost of this licence, which can only be obtained in a regulated manner by the public authorities, lies with the user. Once again, there is no national security at stake, but if there is a potential breach of national security, this can be attributed to the business activity in this case. That is why I stressed that consumers have a choice. They do not have to travel by plane, that can also be done in a different way, with all the advantages and disadvantages of it. That is a fundamental difference with, for example, a dike: a very hard collective good, from which you cannot escape. Then it is also of collective importance that this is financed collectively, as the teachings of public finances make clear to us. As far as the principle of profit is concerned, I do believe that all costs can be passed on in this way to those who benefit from the fact that this product, namely civil aviation, is being offered. So I really want to give up the impression that, in the first instance, the government might have done this in order to allow companies, which are also important in this respect, to contribute to the gap in the budget of national security. That is not the reasoning behind this proposal. It is really attributable to the specific activity of the different companies that this is about. I hope, of course, that I have answered Mr Schouwenaar's question sufficiently. Otherwise, I'm always willing to supplement that. Mr Meijer is right to say that I have remained at a distance from the assessment of the BVD at the time of the Cold War. The most important thing seems to me to be that there can be no difference in this kind of regime. I think we agree on that. The polarisation is still a good point. We can only conduct a security investigation to ensure that someone who works in a company or in the government needs such an investigation for the processes in which he is involved in his field of activity. That security investigation is being done for that person. If that person stops working there, for example, registering with a temporary agency, you can't always rule out that agency saying: we have someone with an approved security investigation. It is therefore not absolute and not waterproof, but the investigation must not be carried out if it is not clear in what context someone is going to do that work. Whether or not he is going to fulfil that position, however, the AIVD is not in control. On the subject of voluntary projects, the debate with Mrs De Boer has already taken place. I think that we can at least come to the conclusion that there is indeed an element in it that is sometimes not easy for those involved to accept. It may be that people who are totally in good faith and those of their lives have never done anything wrong, but who cannot explain what they have done those years of their lives in country X, are not admitted to certain functions. This is done on the basis of the precautionary principle: if you are not quite sure, you should sometimes prefer not to. I am well aware that this may be acidic for those involved. That, by the way, is the application of the Safety Investigation Act. We in the AIVD Group, as the responsible Minister, therefore do nothing about this in itself. I can therefore confirm that companies do not have any influence on the safety investigation process nor on the designation of the functions to which that applies. Mr De Graaf is going to weigh it on a bowl again. He himself indicated that his main argument is the same main argument as that of the government, namely that, in the context of adequate spending of resources for the AIVD, it is fair to attribute what can be attributed to the business process, both to the government and beyond, in this way. The price incentive is therefore secondary. I have already considered that the 3 million for the aviation sector, where there is 250 million a year in security charge, will not mean that the whole process will be redesigned in aviation. It may be different in other sectors, for example at a nuclear power station or in other institutions with such functions. There are also public sectors subject to safety functions. Here and there there are indeed places in the government where people have said too easily: do a safety investigation for them and for them. I'll leave it in the middle for a while, which places within the government it is, but here and there it's more true. In general, however, I believe that this price incentive will be minimal. In reply to Mr Schouwenaar's question, I spoke about national security. I will answer Mrs De Boer's questions first. Then I come to speak on the motion. Indeed, I did not go into the follow-up questions on the price incentive, because I have already said that I do not think that the effect will be great. I also think that shouldn't be big. Let me explain: I would like these processes to be set up as safely as possible. If someone needs €87 to do safety research, for example in civil aviation, then so be it, and then you have to buy it. Do I think there's too many safety investigations going on? It is not up to me to judge this; it is up to the trade ministers. I note, however, that at least the Minister of Justice is trying to reduce the number of security functions in several places.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-8.u32	In order to clarify this legal procedure, I have one more question. Does the Minister say that what was originally the secondary objective in the reply, namely to limit the number of security investigations, is no longer the objective of this law at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-8.u33	It is a secondary objective which I believe will have a very small impact in the largest sector we are talking about today, namely the aviation sector, because it is not yet 1% of the safety costs. This means that there remains a small secondary objective. In other sectors, price awareness may be higher. In other sectors there are also functions for which an in-depth safety investigation is carried out. A political assistant to a minister will be expanded before his appointment, with his entire environment, for days. That will always be the case; however, that is a much more expensive study.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-8.u34	Then my conclusion is that the Minister of the secondary objective of reducing the number of security investigations already says that this bill does not actually contribute to achieving that secondary objective.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-8.u35	This is not an important objective in aviation. I just said that. In other sectors it may be somewhat different. I have also pointed out specific sectors within the government where people sometimes say a little too easy: let's just do a little security investigation. The primary goal is to use the budget of the AIVD for the primary process of the service. Over the years, a budget has gradually crept in that, within the proportions of the budget of the AIVD, is quite large and one has to say that it could be attributed to the business processes to which it contributes. Then the AIVD could devote more time and resources to tracking down terrorists or other activities relevant to national security. I'll close with the motion. The final operative part asks to find out what costs the government incurs, whether or not they can be passed on. That is not limited at all now. This concerns, for example, whether the foundational education is rightly free, as in the Netherlands, or whether it should be imputable, as in the United States of America and whatever is technically possible. I like that a lot, but I see who the signatories are. If the First Chamber of the States-General asks the government to initiate a weighing-up framework, I'll see what we can do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-8.u36	Mr Schouwenaar, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-8.u37	I'd like to come back to the beginning. Have I understood correctly to the Minister that he says that there is a gradual and not an essential difference between national security and industrial safety? Isn't it true that the gradual differences, if they are large enough, can also become essential differences? And what does that mean for the task, responsibility and cost allocation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-8.u38	The answer to the first two questions is yes. It is of course a gradual difference, but at some point it becomes so important that you say: we do not accept that no effort has been made to see if the people who are on the buttons to accompany a plane with 400 people on board above a city are really pure on the bones. We don't accept that. We prohibit this, unless a safety investigation has preceded it in order to limit that risk as much as possible. Then national security is at stake. Suppose you have exactly the same risk on a smaller scale with someone who's going to be in a truck, then we say: we can't actually start making all that compulsory. Well, then we'd better hope we're okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-8.u39	This leads to a distinction between national safety and industrial safety. It is not a question of whether there is a distinction; we all agree on that. However, I do not understand why this should necessarily lead to a cost allocation to the company. It could also lead to a division of costs: each company and the national government each for their own responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-8.u40	I think it is a matrix of 'national security - smaller-scale security' and 'business costs - other costs'. All four combinations are possible. Also in the case of something that does not affect national security, such as driving a vehicle, the government is willing to say: "You have to make a cost for that. You can't just drive that. At the very least, we want you to take driving lessons and take a driving test. The cost is for you, because you want to sit in a car so badly." I think that these are strictly two concepts, which we must assess independently of each other. So it happens very often that, in the context of safety, the government makes demands on a company and says: "The costs you have to incur to meet those requirements are part of the cost of making the product. You must bear those costs. If necessary, you can pass it on to your customers."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-8.u41	I note that the Minister is considering a matrix balancing framework. That sounds like a good start to me. However, he has not yet addressed the distinction I have made. In response to the motion, he talks about passing on costs in education. It seems clear to me that it is not about that. I should also like to take a look at Mr De Graaf. It concerns the passing on of costs of public activities, of public transactions, of public services carrying out specific public tasks, including the passing on of tasks reserved for the public authorities. That criterion has not yet been addressed by the Minister. I do not know whether it makes sense to ask that now, but I sincerely hope that this is something that is taken into account in that balancing framework.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-8.u42	I have already said that I will leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. However, I try to understand what it says. Otherwise, it won't make any sense. It says: "Whereas to date there is no firm policy line within the government on the question of passing on costs of public service activities to citizens and businesses." It seems to me that determining what does and what does not belong to the public service is ultimately a political judgement. The Committee then asked for a framework to be established for this purpose. I am pleased to hear that basic education is apparently not included in the public service remit in this sense. This reduces the problem a little bit. However, I have already said that determining what is and what is not part of the public service remit is, to a large extent, a political judgement. That is perhaps beyond the real night watchman's state tasks, on which everyone is always in agreement. So it's a matter of weighing up. However, I would like to say that I will do my best to bring forward to the Chamber within a year a framework for consideration, as requested by Mr De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-8.u43	It concerns the implementation of public service tasks by public bodies, not by other bodies.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-8.u44	It doesn't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-8.u45	By the way, the foundational education is already largely falling short, because this is not given by the government itself but by generally...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-8.u46	Is there an amendment to this motion, Chairman? Because it doesn't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-8.u47	You may, of course, derive that from this in the context of this debate. The Minister himself believes that the task of having a security investigation carried out is primarily a task of a government organisation. The State could also have imposed on Schiphol or airlines that they would themselves provide for a safety investigation for specific functions. We didn't, because we think that's a task of a government organization. After all, there is a public interest in this, namely national security. If the Minister is a little less reluctant, he will understand what the Chamber is trying to do with this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-8.u48	That's a sighting. Again, it happens with a lot of public service. Passports are issued, for example. For this, fees are charged. High costs are being incurred to ensure that the passports, including the chips on them, are safe. These costs are simply charged to the citizen. Besides, you don't have to take those passports because you don't have to travel. However, if you are going to travel, you must be able to be identified. Their costs are intrinsic costs to travel safely. You pay for it in the cost of the passport. So there are many examples where this happens.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-8.u49	I am not saying that this is not happening, and I am not against it at all. I am only looking for a set of criteria that allow us to consider which service is more suitable and which service is less suitable. The same applies to government transactions. The example of the passport is indeed a good example. You don't even have to apply for a passport in the Netherlands. In a way, there is even freedom of choice: you can also opt for an identity card, or even for not choosing an identity card. The element I mentioned earlier in the written exchange of views, namely whether a company or a citizen has a choice, has been dismissed by the Minister. He said, no, it doesn't matter. I believe that this does play a role in this. This is one of the points of discussion that the Minister has to deal with when he writes about it. Is it a relevant criterion or not? That's the kind of criteria we're talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-8.u50	Thanks for the hint. This reminds me of the fact that I had to answer Mr Schouwenaar's question as to how far the scale of costs goes with the scale of use. I think that these safety investigations are typically an example of something that scales along with the number of flights. If only half of an existing number of flights were operated, if half of the passengers decided to reach their destination by bus, the costs would be reduced accordingly. There's not a lot of constant costs in it. Most of the costs involved are variable costs. This also applies to the entire security charge, because per gate people are appointed and equipment is put in place. The cost of this will be reflected in the ticket. I hope, especially now that I have given a generous undertaking, despite my hesitations, that I will carry out this motion, that I can also count on generous support from the Chamber for this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-8.u51	I have come to deal with this bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. I propose that we vote next week on this bill and on the motion.
