ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-eerstekamer-4.u1	I would like to welcome the initiators Mr Recourt, Mr Oskam and Mr Segers and the Minister for Security and Justice to the Upper House.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-eerstekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. I am also speaking on behalf of the OSF Group and will not always mention both groups for convenience in future. Equalising legal entities governed by public law with other legal persons in the possibility of criminal prosecution is at the heart of today's legislative proposal. In particular, it concerns the lifting of the criminal immunity of the central government, the State of the Netherlands. The CDA Group would like to express its appreciation for the work carried out by the initiators. However, my group raised critical questions in the written examination of that bill. On the basis of three main points, I shall go into this further. Firstly, these are the constitutional aspects, secondly, the need for the legislative proposal and thirdly, its effectiveness. I will be the first to discuss the constitutional aspects and start with the very nature of the government. First and foremost, the bondage of government and government officials to the law. It can, unfortunately, prevent the government from committing criminal offences as well. Should the response in that case be equal to that of private or legal persons? The initiators are of the opinion that the principle of equality should be invoked. However, the question arises as to whether the principle of equality applies. The public authorities carry out their tasks in the public interest and their task is based on the law. Unlike private parties, the government does not have the freedom to carry out its task at its own discretion. Nor can the government refrain from carrying out its task. In the public interest, the government sometimes carries out transactions that are not allowed to private parties. Can the initiators explain why, in their opinion, there is equality? What does an exclusive government sanction exclusion clause say in this respect? This brings me to the second constitutional aspect, democratic accountability. The very nature of the government, which exercises its powers in the general interest, is reflected in our democratic system and its inherently linked system of democratic accountability. The initiators argue that political and administrative accountability in cross-standard behaviour by the government and its directors is paramount. The government agrees with this and my group agrees with it. In fact, my group is wondering whether the lifting of the state's criminal immunity does not interfere with political and administrative accountability in an undesirable way. After all, the legislative proposal strengthens the tension between criminal liability and political control. In any case, that raises the question of how to determine which of the two prevails. Think of a situation in which such incidents have already been politically accounted for; the debate has already been closed and then there will be criminal proceedings. And think about the other side of the coin: if criminal proceedings are already taking place, but political accountability still has to take place. Once a case is brought before the courts, it significantly impedes democratic accountability. In addition, this initiative legislative proposal carries the risk that it will lead to a legalisation of accountability. In the event of incidents of some magnitude, citizens will be asked to prosecute the government. For example, when political accountability has not, or not yet, been established or, in the opinion of the citizen, has not been far-reaching enough. This puts pressure on the starting point that political and administrative accountability must remain at the forefront. The answers of the initiators to this point have not so far convinced my group. We would like to hear their views on this again today. The Crown's unity is the final point of the rule of law. On 20 May 2015, the government wrote to this Chamber that the lifting of the state's criminal immunity would affect the unity of the government and government policy. The Council of State also pointed this out. In its 1999 opinion, the Council pointed out some consequences of the lifting of criminal immunity. The Minister of Justice should be given a special position within the government. The Council of Ministers must not be involved in decisions on the prosecution of the State. If he were involved, the "suspect" could decide on his own prosecution. For the same reasons, review and assessment by the State General of the prosecution policy would also raise doubts in this regard. A special position for the Minister of Justice within the Council of Ministers affects the unity of the Crown and its policy, which is at odds with the points in our Constitution. Nor would an independent position of the Minister of Security and Justice resolve the situation in which criminal offences have been committed in his department. In their reply to this Chamber, the initiators wrote that they initially thought of lifting the specific power of designation of the Minister for Security and Justice on this point. They did not accept this, especially as it would depart from the normal pattern of state law. It would undermine the scope of ministerial responsibility. On that last point, the CDA Group agrees, but wonders whether it should be concluded that the imposition of prosecutions against the State by that same State creates a "bite-in-your-own-tail" problem which is such that it cannot actually be solved. I would like to hear a response from the initiators. I come to my second main point: effectiveness. A key point in the prosecution of the State is that the penalties and measures which the State would impose on itself in this case have little effect. My group therefore doubts whether a meaningful criminal sanctioning of the State as a legal person is possible. Let me give you an example. In the previous proceedings, it was mentioned that a fine for the State is merely symbolic. After all, there is no real transfer of money: the well-known pocket pocket story. This is countered by the fact that, although the fine is symbolic, it does not remove the fact that departments have separate assets and that they have to cope with setbacks in their own budget. Therefore, a fine would certainly "pain" and could provide an incentive for better behavior. But what exactly is that all about? Hopefully the initiators and the government will be able to answer that today. Is the legal person not ordered to pay a fine to the State and not to a certain department? A department is just a collection of officials with a minister in charge. So doesn't a criminal fine just come at the expense of the state treasury, and not at all from a specific department? In that case, the Minister of Finance will have to find money again to pay the fine. However, he will not have to search for long: he will be credited the same amount to the Treasury's bank account. If the system works that way, it doesn't seem effective to me. In the opinion of the CDA Group, the question is as follows: what criminal targets could justify the prosecution of the State? The objective of the initiators is to refer to the standard confirmation. In general, a criminal conviction can contribute to standard confirmation. In this way it is made clear to the condemned, but also to others, what standards one has to abide by. The standard confirmation based on a conviction without penalty is limited. In criminal matters where the right is to be found at the border of criminality, a standard confirmation without penalty may be appropriate. However, if obvious criminal conduct leads to a conviction without effective sanction, the result could be counterproductive. Such a conviction seems to suggest that the confirmed standard for the convicted person is an empty standard. How do the initiators see this? Then I come to the third main point: the need. The initiators motivate the need to waive criminal immunity by referring mainly to the exemplary role of the government. I have already dealt with the aspect of democratic accountability, which is also at the forefront in the eyes of the initiators. It is also important that this form of accountability can go beyond criminal accountability. After all, broader and also moral standards are being tested. It's wider than criminal accountability. This initiative proposal also refers to criminal liability as an ultimatum remedium. Should it be inferred that this form of accountability is "higher" and "heavier" than political or administrative accountability? Couldn't that be a huge disappointment? In criminal law, only legal standards can be tested, while democratic accountability allows for a much wider accountability, which is much more appropriate to what society needs. In the political and administrative accountability process, measures or adjustments of the policy can be agreed, in order to avoid repetition in the future. I would like to receive a response from the initiators on this point. If this bill should also satisfy any injured parties, does civil law not provide sufficient opportunities? The injured citizen may himself bring an action against the government and claim damages for the tort committed against him by the government. In that case, the government will have to provide the public with financial support. The waiver of criminal immunity is therefore not necessary in order to obtain compensation. In the event of a civil conviction, the government is obliged to compensate for the damage suffered to the citizen. That's unlike the pocket pocket story of criminal sanctioning. I'll come to a conclusion. My group has a number of questions about this bill. We have three constitutional questions: the equality in relation to the "own nature" of the government, the crossing of the system of democratic accountability and the possibility of the Crown's unity being called into question. My group also has questions about the effectiveness and need of the proposal. Apart from the unity of the Crown, these questions also apply, of course, to the total abolition of the criminal immunity of local authorities. Suppose we ignore the objections I have just raised to the criminal liability of the State. The question remains, then, what will the citizens and society ultimately get out of this? During the examination of this proposal, the initiators argued several times that trust in the rule of law was an argument for equivalence in both chambers. That confidence would be enhanced by this bill. But couldn't the opposite also be the case? We look forward with great interest to answering our questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-eerstekamer-4.u3	Mr. Chairman. This initiative proposal has a long history. On behalf of my group, I would like to congratulate all the successive Members of Parliament who have worked decisively on this proposal on their work. I would also like to thank the initiators for their response to the input from my group. Of course, I would also like to thank the Minister for his response to our input into the preliminary report. I am delighted to note that on this issue of criminal law there is no light between the views of my group and those of the government. That is generally very different from today. For that reason alone, this is a very nice day for my group. Hold that! The question of the criminal liability of public authorities and government officials has a number of fundamental and fundamental questions of law. I mention, for example, the place and significance of the state and the government, and the relationship between state and criminal liability. It is important to rethink these questions in this house today. Of course, my group is first of all interested in the purpose, usefulness and need of seeking to lift the existing immunity of public legal entities. What exactly is the motive for introducing the proposed amendment? In the classic terminology of the Council of State, this is: what problem does this bill solve? From the explanatory statement, in summary, we take the following reasoning. The government, like citizens, should be liable for criminal offences. In other words, the government must also "calculate for a criminal court." It is therefore undesirable that this should be ruled out in advance. The abolition of existing immunities is therefore desirable from the point of view of the legitimacy and effectiveness of public action. Citizens will be more willing to comply with legal standards if "condemnation" also includes cross-standard behaviour by the government. Finally, the social pressure to bring criminal proceedings in any serious incident involving a public legal person or a civil servant may be high. We have noticed that the justification of the proposal has a strong legislative, if not moral, impact. The argument is based, in essence, on the importance of a debt instrument which is not clearly defined and essentially merely assumed to be a social standard. We have wondered whether this is not an excessively thin basis for a substantial change in the legal system. Therefore, in the written preparation, we asked the initiators whether the justification offered was objectively sufficient in terms of weight and persuasion to infringe the special position of the government and the existing democratic liability figures. The initiators confirm in the reply that they are in fact still concerned with "calculation for a criminal court in a manner equivalent to that required by citizens." The special position of the public authorities should not go so far as to exclude criminal proceedings in advance and this is not desirable either in the context of the government, which corrects citizens in the event of cross-standard behaviour. In doing so, the initiators focus primarily on the so-called exemplary role of the public authorities and secondary on the equal treatment of legal persons governed by public and private law. The D66 Group continues to question whether the credibility of the government and this equality clause really require the lifting of criminal immunity in order to continue to speak of legitimate government acts. We believe that legitimacy, image, credibility or support for public bodies, bodies, offices and officials are more dependent on other factors. For example, the ability of management to act, of service-oriented public services, of proactivity in political decision-making, of transparency in administrative action, of rule of law, efficiency and effectiveness of rules and policies, of the protection of civil rights and freedoms, and of sound political accountability. In particular, however, in the use of the term 'example function', we find rather an urge to modify the definition of an increased degree of political morality and thus to meet a normality experienced by us only in certain parts of society. This raises the question of the relevance of the legislative proposal in the light of the more general awareness of the law among the legal partners and the state of development of the law. I would like to ask the initiators to respond to these observations. Let me now turn to the state of the law itself. On the basis of the case-law on the criminal liability of the State, it can be established on the basis of the Volkel judgment and the two Pikmeer judgments that the central government is currently not enforceable and that the immunity of the local authorities is only valid in so far as it concerns the performance of an exclusive public task. In that case, however, the criminal justice system of justification should be applied. The obligations of the ECHR also require criminal proceedings against public authorities only in exceptional cases. This is in line with the principle enshrined in Strasbourg case law that criminal law should only be used as an ultimatum remedium in relation to public transactions. For the sake of clarity, I would refer to the wording of the ECHR in the Minister's letter following the preliminary report.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-eerstekamer-4.u4	However, I would like to remind Mr Engels that there can be a difference between European law and ECHR rulings. He will be familiar with the well-known book on immunities and the report of the NJV meeting, in which Professor Van Sliedregt made a number of interesting comments. She mentioned the well-known Öneryildiz judgment against Turkey, but also another judgment. It concludes that it is precisely on the basis of the rulings of the European Court of Human Rights that there is every reason to waive the immunity of the State in this regard. How do you view that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-eerstekamer-4.u5	I was ready for my next sentence, which reads as follows: if we are to believe the authoritative courtwatchers, the European Court of Human Rights has never explicitly made the lifting of immunities a condition. I refer, indeed, to the pre-opinions issued in 2013 by the Dutch Lawyers Association, as can also be found in the Minister's letter. I would like to answer your question as to how Mrs Van Sliedregt's story should be interpreted. I can more agree with the way in which the Minister has done that than in what you have just said. That is a question of interpretation, by the way. Mr. Chairman. I'm picking up my story again. This observation on the European Convention on Human Rights and the European Court of Justice would be in favour of leaving the question of when to apply criminal immunity to the courts. This also applies to the previous case law that I have just mentioned. At the most, I would add that we could consider maintaining criminal immunity and including in a more detailed legislation exceptions which actually codify what has been done in the case-law. However, the initiators make the choice to waive the existing immunity, partly because in their view the case law offers only "apparent" clarity. For this purpose, they cite, for example, a judgment of the Utrecht Court, which states that there would now be a broad view in the literature that the immunity of governments should only be adopted exceptionally. My group has asked the initiators why they think the case law is only apparently clear and for what reason they see their proposal as a clarification of immunity case law, now that immunity is essentially lifted. The initiators respond in the reply with a reference to the Roelvink Committee. The criterion of "exclusive public service tasks" would be unclear and should not lead, in principle, to immunity. In essence, the initiators say that they distance themselves from the legal dogma developed in the case law on this point and that they want to go their own way, i.e. a different, more legal policy. This is quite different from clarifying established case law. My group therefore urgently needs further clarification on this point. On the one hand, my group continues to find it ambiguous to want to codify the existing case law, which is not reflected in the proposal, and on the other hand to want to lower the immunity threshold by allowing for a wider scope of application. I would like to ask the initiators to respond to this and to indicate whether the state of the legal development is forcing the proposed legislative amendment. Let me now turn to the aspect of the specific grounds for exclusion. With their proposal, the proposers introduce the construction that public bodies or ministers will no longer be able to rely on the performance of a public task to avoid criminal proceedings. Public trading must have been "reasonably necessary" to carry out a public task. In order to rely on this grounds of exclusion contained in the proposal, the institution concerned or the holder of office will have to argue that there was reasonably no other choice to act. They are in principle required to carry out legal tasks and do not have the freedom to act as they see fit. In that light, the D66 Group has wondered how the judge will test here. The initiators point to requirements of proportionality and necessity: to what extent was the means used necessary to achieve the objective pursued, and could the same objective be achieved by another means? But the question is, of course, to what extent the judge may or should consider that public authorities and government officials should have a special discretion. According to the initiators, this depends on the concrete facts and circumstances, but that is, to our taste, a somewhat evasive answer. I would therefore ask the initiators to elaborate on this point. I come to the special place of the government. With the Council of State, my group believes that the initiators are quite easily moving over the particular place and significance of the government and the particular nature of the state's trade. The tasks and powers of bodies and officials within the public administration shall have a legal basis, and thus a maximum democratic and constitutional basis, and shall be exercised in the context of the public task. Those bodies and officials therefore cannot, at their own discretion, weigh interests, take decisions and carry out implementing acts. For this reason, I do not believe that the special responsibility, that is to say public, is comparable to the private-law responsibilities of citizens, businesses and institutions. However, the initiators draw the remarkable conclusion that precisely because of the special position of the government, the waiver of existing immunities is desirable. In that statement, my group once again reads a primary political desire to highlight the so-called exemplary role of the government and hence social normality. to strengthen morality. On this point, too, my group has asked in the written preparation whether this approach is of sufficient importance to put the government in such a position. In addition, we have asked for a further justification of the statement that the specific role of the government in society requires criminal liability. The initiators have indicated that they intended to say that this is only true in equal cases, thus emphasising that the particular position of the government within an assumed criminal liability is still significant. I would like to ask the initiators to what extent this is still of fundamental importance once the border on criminal immunity has been crossed. I come now to an issue which is essential for the assessment of this proposal, namely public law. In a clear statement, the Council of State drew attention to the relationship between the State accounting structure, in which government transactions are controlled and assessed on a democratic basis, and the proposed criminal liability of the government. Indeed, both systems can cross one another, which, in the opinion of the Council of State, can be adversely affected and I expect that both the democratic accountability process and the criminal procedure will also be affected. The initiators believe that although the political and administrative accountability procedure and the criminal law application have their own place, they also complement and strengthen each other. In their view, political accountability takes place on the basis of political considerations, while criminal proceedings focus on the legality of government acts. In their opinion, the political accountability generally does not address legal review standards, while in criminal proceedings there is no consideration of trust in public authorities or public servants. As a conclusion to this argument, they argue that criminal law can even strengthen citizens' confidence in the government. Already in the written preparation, my group has indicated that it is not in a position to follow this argument properly. We believe that the nature and extent of political responsibility and public accountability are ultimately determined by representative bodies. Aspects of culpability, legality or administrative efficiency can in principle also form part of political accountability processes on the basis of political and administrative considerations. The possible political sanctioning in the form of a loss of confidence of the parliament, and thus political resignation for political directors, is based on a totally different concept of trust than the confidence of citizens in public administration or in criminal proceedings. In that sense, in my opinion, effective political responsibility can have at least as much influence on public confidence in the government as a criminal conviction. Even without creating a large but incorrect contradiction between the public and criminal liability systems, I believe that both systems have their own place. However, a mutually complementary and reinforcing function cannot be derived from this in advance. In fact, political accountability processes can be substantially crossed if, because of criminal proceedings, only limited disclosure can be exercised. A major objection to a clash between the political system and the criminal justice system is also that the Minister of Justice has political responsibility for the decision-making of the Public Prosecutor on the possible prosecution of criminal offences under the political responsibility of other public bodies or bodies. - staff members. This type of OM decision will thus have a strong political character, especially when it is borne in mind that the Minister of Justice can, if necessary, provide guidance on prosecution policy. Firstly, it is important that the initiators recognise in the response that criminal acts can be taken into account in political accountability, but that, in criminal proceedings, the political and administrative context cannot be judged by the judge, I would say: at most marginal..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Political accountability thus has a much wider scope than criminal liability. I would then take the view that criminal acts can be a substantial part of political accountability and that they can also have substantial consequences. A fundamental question then is why, in addition to political and administrative accountability, criminal liability is necessary. The initiators argue that the violation of a criminal standard can be so serious that political and administrative accountability is not enough. The possibility of criminal prosecution of legal persons governed by public law may, in their view, be valuable in the event of such serious crimes that it is not real to refrain from prosecution, even after administrative and political accountability. In the event of obvious injustice, the possibility of criminal action should be available in a democratic rule of law, they believe. My group continues to run counter to the normative nature of this reasoning. Why is it not real to refrain from criminal proceedings against legal persons governed by public law and why should criminal proceedings be carried out against legal persons governed by public law in a democratic rule of law? When exactly is there obvious injustice? This is not made clear in my group's view on objective grounds. It is also unclear whether our current system is working because the political responsibility in this area would not function properly or because the possibility of criminal prosecution causes a serious gap. The fact that, in the practice of local authorities, the Public Prosecutor's Office seems to consider whether there is political and administrative accountability and how it has been operationalised, and the fact that the judge can take this into account when imposing a sentence, could lead to the conclusion that the criminal immunity currently existing in our democratic rule of law for legal persons governed by public law can be considered to be system-compliant. I would like to hear a further response from the initiators on this point. Then I come to the implications for practice. A not insignificant question is what the introduction of the system envisaged by the initiators will mean for administrative practice. My group fears that due to the expected increased attention to legal control and reputation management, the risk-avoidance behaviour of public officials will increase. We can already see that because of the private liability of the government for unlawful and even lawful action. In my view, one does not need to be an administrative psychic to predict that there may be undesirable spasms. How will the D.A. handle requests for prosecution under Article 12 Sv? The social pressure for this will not rarely be greatly increased, but social discontent is not the best approach to criminal action. Furthermore, criminal prosecution for acts performed on the basis of legal powers will also have a major impact on the personal lives of public officials involved, even if acquittal or dismissal of legal proceedings is followed. A whole other issue is that, at the most, it is possible to impose fines on bodies, which will result in at most a shift of resources within the budget chapters. My group is concerned about whether this will lead to a good development. We would also like to hear more from the initiators on this point. I'll come to a conclusion. It is clear that my group does not currently feel very strongly about lifting the criminal immunity of public legal persons. The arguments of the initiators show a great deal of commitment to this issue, but still lack sufficient conviction. We see a lot of symbolism, but also a lot of risks. But I will listen with great interest to the reaction of the initiators. Finally, I would be grateful if the Minister would inform the Chamber of the government's position on this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-eerstekamer-4.u6	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the initiative proposal for the lifting of criminal immunity of legal entities governed by public law and their directors. On behalf of my group, I would first of all like to express my appreciation to the original initiator of this bill, Mr Wolfsen, and to Mr Recourt, Mr Oskam and Mr Segers, who have now taken over the defence of the proposal and whom I will refer to as 'initiators'. The aim of this legislative proposal is to put an end to the current situation that the State is completely immune to criminal prosecution and that local authorities are also responsible for potentially committing criminal offences in the context of the performance of an exclusive public task. This legislative proposal therefore proposes that the existing criminal immunity of legal persons governed by public law should no longer be maintained. The same applies to the related immunities of principals and actual directors. The initiators consider it undesirable to make only civil servants subject to criminal prosecution, without it being possible to hold the organisation for which the civil servants work criminally liable. The PvdA Group shares the view of the initiators that there are good grounds no longer to maintain the existing criminal immunity of legal persons governed by public law, including the State. We, too, would find it unsatisfactory if only natural persons, as principal or factual director, could be prosecuted and the legal person itself would, by definition, remain out of the question. As set out in the explanatory memorandum by the original complainant, the main proceedings in respect of legal persons governed by public law do not differ from the prosecution of legal persons governed by private law or natural persons. The specific nature of the public authorities may be sufficiently taken into account in assessing the possibility of bringing proceedings and in assessing whether there is a grounds for non-compliance. In addition, the legislative proposal includes a provision which provides that the official or the legal person governed by public law is not to be punishable by a fact which is reasonably necessary for the performance of a public task entrusted by law. The initiators consider that accountability to the criminal court is without prejudice to political and administrative accountability mechanisms. Political accountability on the one hand and criminal prosecution and trial on the other have substantially different functions and within these processes different standards are used, so they reason. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats asks the initiators to re-examine this reasoning and explain it as concretely as possible and provide examples. Furthermore, the initiators consider that a sanction to be imposed on the public authorities is not necessarily merely symbolic and that the cardigan-pocket argument does not always apply. We call on the initiators to clarify this point as concretely as possible and to provide examples. In any case, we share the view of the initiators that a declaration of guilty, without penalty, can already be very effective in the case of legal persons governed by public law. In the preliminary report, the PvdA Group asked the initiators why they did not choose to waive the immunity of the State in so far as it is concerned from criminal proceedings, but to waive the possibility of imposing and executing penalties. In this context, we referred to the recommendation of the VU professor Elies van Sliedregt in her pre-advisation for the Dutch Lawyers Association entitled "Immunity of the State: beyond sustainability?" Van Sliedregt states: "In my opinion, the State is particularly in a position of exception in the area of criminal execution, because of the monopoly of violence. The enforcement of penalties is an excellent form of exercise of power. From that perspective, criminal proceedings and therefore criminal investigations into the state's actions and omissions may take place. This responds to the obligations of Strasbourg and to the social need to restore legal peace. Such criminal proceedings shall then end in a declaratory sentence. It is then up to the politicians to decide whether or not to take any consequences." We ask the initiators to respond to this reasoning and recommendation by Van Sliedregt. The original bill provided that the Minister of Justice could not, in a specific case, give any indication of the detection or prosecution of criminal offences committed by a public legal person. However, in the proposal for a law as amended following the opinion of the Council of State, this provision has disappeared. In the preliminary report, the PvdA Group asked the initiators to justify the maintenance of the Minister's powers of designation. To this end, the initiators stated in the reply that, contrary to the risk that the Minister would intervene in specific cases of prosecution of the government for example for political reasons, the important constitutional principle is that the exercise of major powers such as the power to prosecute can be held accountable to the parliament. That power cannot be exercised by the Minister without the powers of appointment mentioned in the reply as regards the performance of the tasks and powers of the Public Prosecutor's Office. They also argue that they consider the risk that the Minister would use his designation powers in an undesirable manner to be negligible. The PvdA Group invites the initiators to explain why they believe that the said risk will not materialise in practice. We look forward with interest to answering our questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-eerstekamer-4.u7	Madam President. On behalf of the VVD Group, I would like to thank Mr Recourt, Mr Oskam and Mr Segers: thank you for their initiative, for the great work they have done and for the result they have achieved so far. The VVD Group raised a number of questions during the written preparation. I would like to thank the authors and the Minister for their reply. However, we still have a few further comments and questions. The aim of the proposal is threefold: to remove the displeasure about the criminal immunity of the public authorities, to eliminate the inequality between private and public legal entities and to restore public confidence. It's a sympathetic goal. It's hard to disagree with that. But how much displeasure is that? What's the point of displeasure? Against the alleged offense itself? Against government impunity? Or the absence of a criminal investigation? Does this bill take away that displeasure? If the prosecution does not prosecute, does it make any difference in terms of displeasure for what reason the prosecution dismisses: on the basis of the new grounds for exclusion Article 42, second paragraph, or on the basis of the Volkel judgment? The proposers write that they have no reason to believe that the number of cases resulting from the present legislative proposal will be large. Can we say: we have a problem and this bill is the best solution? My group is leaning towards a negative answer. The second objective is legal inequality. We agree with the principle of equal treatment, but are there similar cases here? My group believes that legal persons governed by public and private law are not necessarily equal. The government distinguishes itself by its legal task. The government must choose and it must act. Doing nothing is often not an option. In doing so, the government sometimes has to break rules. The bill recognises the special position of the government. It is in line with Article 42, second paragraph, but then the criminal proceedings have already been initiated by a subpoena or by an application under Article 12 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Of course, the process can end quickly. However, the mere fact that criminal law has been dealt with casts a stain on the defendant's record. The criminal context of good and evil is stronger than innocence. In a consistent application, the supposed equality should perhaps also apply to the sitting magistrate and perhaps to the parliament. However, these are consequences that we do not want, so there seem to be limits to equality. A second difference between legal entities governed by public law and private law is the existence of an additional remedy in public law: political and administrative control. It covers in principle all aspects. The area is much wider than criminal law. It provides for all kinds of corrections: dismissal of relevant public servants, restoration of the illegal situation and measures to prevent repetition. The applicants point out that it is not either-or: or criminal law or political-administrative accountability. Criminal, administrative and civil law serve different purposes. They can be applied side by side in the same case. On the one hand, that is correct, but it raises a number of problems. The right to remain silent is often mentioned as an example, the obligation of confidentiality can come into the tribulation. The special procedure laid down in Article 119 of the Constitution comes into view when directors are involved as managers in the criminal proceedings. This article has never been applied. Is this being brought back to life? It is customary for politicians to exercise restraint as long as a matter is under judicial review. Is this good habit going to last? The criminal process can take much longer than a political-administrative assessment. Does this lead to a loss of actuality? Will political and administrative measures and criminal proceedings influence each other and, if so, is that always desirable? These problems are a direct consequence of the combination of criminal and political accountability, but the legislative proposal does not provide a solution. In the Lower House, member Van der Steur pointed out that criminal proceedings against the State could endanger the unity of the government. The position of the Minister of Justice could conflict with that of the person in charge. What do the proposers think about this? We would also like to put this interesting question to the Minister. The Council of State provides that the bill could lead officials to cover themselves. The proposers do not write that they have received any signals. The purpose of this bill is precisely to avoid criminal behaviour. That's laconic, but it doesn't fully reflect reality. The work of the government consists of more than just the choice between whether or not to act as a criminal. It's often about taking initiative or not, taking extra care or not, making risk assessments and so on. It is not always clear in advance how the criminal court will judge afterwards. Official behavioral adjustments are not always signalled, but it may become a culture that pierces within the organization or a work posture that is wrapped in euphemisms. For example, a situation that gets out of hand in official language is called "a learning moment." The applicants point out that criminal law serves as an ultimatum remedium. However, it is doubtful whether this is the case. I would like to quote with approval what the PvdA spokesperson said about this in the Lower House in 2010. He said: "But in the current political climate, doesn't there tend to take criminal law less as a last resort, but as a normal remedy not to say "to prefer" sanction instrument? Are there not unintended effects to be expected in this respect (...)?" The legislative proposal does not take any action to ensure that criminal law will also be a genuine ultimatum remedium. This means that the risks arising from the combination of political and administrative correction will continue to exist. This political-administrative correction could be inadequate. In that case, would it not be obvious to fix the administrative correction mechanism? However, this bill does not provide for this. In this context, I would like to give an example. The Public Prosecutor may object and appeal against all kinds of permits, in environmental matters and in other areas as well. However, in order to have a chance of success, it is necessary for the public prosecutor to be regarded by law as an interested party. This would lead to regulations, enforcement and disputes between the Administrative Court and the Council of State. They are experienced and familiar with the assessment of the trade and walk of the government and have a different review framework, without the heavy burden of criminal law. How do the applicants assess such legislation? The third objective of the bill is to restore confidence in the government. The VVD Group believes that this is one of the most important aspects of any government trade. The trust that people have in government deserves our utmost and constant attention and care. My group believes that trust is mainly influenced by the content of policy, implementation, communication, transparency and reliability. We do not have any basis for the argument that limiting the criminal liability of the government significantly undermines confidence in that same government. In concrete situations, there may be damage to confidence. However, we wonder whether this will have a significant impact, partly in view of what is happening to care, attention, compensation and compensation in the event of accidents and disasters. It could be the other way around. A government in the suspect bank can seriously undermine trust. However, when a criminal trial ends without a statement of guilty, this will continue to be the responsibility of the government. I do not think that a judgment would be very conducive to confidence, even if it is justified. The example function of the government has also been mentioned as an argument. We cannot escape the impression that an exemplary role is more about the personal behaviour of politicians and civil servants. Fortunately, we do not have much to complain about in our country. Example behaviour of public bodies as such, so apart from the person, is difficult to imagine. An uncomfortable feeling remains, I can't deny it. Why is a gap in a municipal road wrong and doesn't a gap in a state road lead to criminal proceedings? Whatever remains is doubt as to whether this bill is the right solution. Is this not too heavy a tool for a problem which is mainly of a fundamental and theoretical nature?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-eerstekamer-4.u8	I ask the spokesperson of the VVD Group to think of other examples, such as the Otapan issue, however serious a gap in the way may be. That was the ship full of asbestos, which we have had a great deal of trouble with here and elsewhere. We have seen that the functional court finally had to dismiss the case because of the immunity of the State. I would ask Mr Schouwenaar to deal with such an issue, which is of a different nature than a hole in the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-eerstekamer-4.u9	In the preparatory documents and the documents that have been discussed in the House of Representatives, a number of examples have been given, one more serious than the other, but all serious. In the explanatory statement, the authors write that there may be such unfair situations that criminal law cannot actually be missed. My group takes the view that even then the political and administrative assessment should be at the forefront or even the monopoly. Also members of municipal councils or parliament are not insensitive to serious injustices and very serious abuses. They will, of course, take this into account in their assessment. Moreover, the assessment takes place in a gremium that really controls the wheel; a criminal response can only indirectly stimulate better government behaviour. In this respect, we believe that the political and administrative assessment should be paramount, regardless of the severity of the events. At first sight, government impunity feels unfair, but at second glance, there is another correction mechanism along a political-administrative path. This mechanism works well and can be improved where necessary. Application of criminal law in addition to or instead of administrative correction raises problems. They remain unsolved. That is why my group has great doubts about this bill and is looking forward with particular interest to the reply of the proposers and the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-eerstekamer-4.u10	It seems that the legislative process of this proposal could almost have been a second lustrum. It is therefore not surprising that, in view of the speed of the rotation of MPs, many names have already been the bearer of this proposal. That is why it is appropriate to congratulate the proposing groups on their perseverance. However, it is not surprising that this bill has gone such a long way and that the lifting of criminal immunity for the government has been under discussion for so long before that. The goal is sympathetic and so logical: a government can only enforce credible laws and rules if these laws and rules, including their enforcement, apply to it. And why shouldn't the government have to answer to the criminal court? Despite this iron logic, the legislative proposal encounters a number of objections of a constitutional nature, but also of a practical and legal nature, expressed, inter alia, by the Council of State, the Government, but also by external experts. It is up to us, the First Chamber, to make the final decision and to pronounce the redeeming word next week. In the written round, my group has already expressed a positive opinion on the intention of the legislative proposal. We too believe that the confidence in the government and the authority of that government can in fact only be gained by greater accountability to its actions. It also fits in with an increasing emphasis on responsibility, of citizens, of business. With every serious incident involving the public authorities and causing serious damage to the environment, the debate has sparked off why the government should be able to go free. Sometimes these are errors in the licensing or enforcement of the rules; think of the fireworks disaster in Enschede or the fire in Volendam. The public authorities are then called upon to see that the omission of the public-law task has resulted in casualties. Sometimes the government plays an even more important role, for example in the Schiphol fire, in which eleven people died in the flames. They were held by a section of the Ministry of Security and Justice. According to the initiators, the principle of equality requires the government to be criminally prosecutable and punishable in these situations. There is broad consensus that the government should be called upon to act in this way. The question is how. After all, the State, as well as local authorities, has its own democratic accountability processes. Why shouldn't that be enough? Their special position comes into their own, while citizens can appeal to these governments through their elected representatives in a completely transparent process for their mistakes or misbehaviour. The initiators acknowledge this, but stress that a criminal trial as an ultimatum remedium is complementary. My group tends to agree with them on this. Indeed, is an administrative or political accountability process sufficient in the event of a serious event that has caused major damage? Citizens are dependent on the purifying and learning capacity of governance and politics and are sometimes disappointed in them. A judgment of a criminal court, on the other hand, is independent and free of other considerations and interests. It is therefore good that this possibility is available if the democratic accountability process fails. A judgment of the criminal court may subsequently lead to further measures and policy changes that should prevent the criminal offence from being repeated. The question, however, is how will the two mechanisms relate in practice. According to the initiators, political accountability should be paramount. How's that gonna be guaranteed? Mr Schouwenaar pointed out just now that the law does not guarantee that this will also have that order. And isn't there a danger that a minister or alderman might be hiding behind a criminal procedure to avoid full disclosure? Assuming that a criminal is not convicted, which may be the case for many reasons, will the persons responsible still be prepared to draw their conclusions or take certain measures? The initiators acknowledge that politics and criminal law can go hand in hand. Do they also recognise the possible influence over and over again, even if both forms of accountability serve a completely different purpose? I'd like to get a reaction to this. The question also arises as to how far the criminal court is able to assess whether the commission of the offence was necessary in the context of the exercise of the public task. How, for example, will the criminal court deal with a government's policy freedom? And in what way will the criminal court be able to determine the accountability of the conduct as well as who exactly can be held responsible? Often the decision-making on many layers takes place for a different part, so that one dimensional is not imputable. There is then a difference between officials and political leaders. In the democratic accountability process, the alderman is politically responsible, but what about a criminal trial? And what about the figures accomplice, participation and similar forms of criminal liability in these complex decision-making processes? The questions of desirability, persecuability and punitiveness are the most pressing questions of the State. The State has the monopoly of violence and will then be forced to bring part of itself to justice. This seems to be difficult to reconcile with the indivisible nature of government acts. However, in other areas too, it seems to be more common for public administrations from a system of responsibility to call other services on the non-compliance of rules. In this case, the Minister of Security and Justice is the one who, by means of his power of direction, has an influence on whether or not to prosecute. Although this power was not initially conferred on the Minister, my group very much agrees with the arguments for deleting this exception from the legislative proposal, precisely because the parliament should be able to appeal to the Minister for decisions on prosecution or non-prosecution. But what about the prosecution of the Ministry of Security and Justice itself, or part of it? Is it entirely on its own, while it also has to answer to its minister? Have the initiators considered alternatives? The initiators want to achieve equal treatment, but they still maintain a certain inequality, as it seems to us, namely the non-continuability of ministers by the prosecutor, even if they can be appointed as executives. For them the power remains exclusively with the Crown and the House of Representatives. Can the initiators explain again why this inequality can be justified? Then the chastisement. In practice, a sanction will be mainly a financial sanction, which will be at the expense of the public funds that citizens should benefit from. It is quite a task for the criminal court to impose a heavy fine which he knows will reduce a specific budget. After all, the initiators assume that the punished part of the State must bleed, and that it is not "appropriate." That is, of course, a policy choice that the initiators are not about. How does the Cabinet view this? In what way would that system work if part of the State were financially fined? And when it becomes a "jacket pocket pocket," it's a question of whether it's going to have a learning effect. Can we learn in this case from other sanctions that can be imposed on governments, for example the penalty payment for non-timely decisions? Has this already led to faster decisions, at least to respect the legal decision-making period? That could provide a little more clarification on the impact of this bill. Another point that the initiators do not pay very much attention to is the possible consequence of the waiver of immunity from the action of civil servants. Will they avoid risks more often, in order to avoid any chance of criminal prosecution? Carefulness is good, but some degree of courage and determination is important for effective government action. How do the initiators think that covering on the one hand and unnecessary Juridising on the other can be avoided? My group considers it imaginable that the sword of Damocles will lead to legal uncertainty and can therefore have a crippling effect. We wonder whether this threat itself is not a threat to the tendency to abandon bureaucracy and give more responsibility to civil servants, as well as to assign more public tasks and responsibility to local authorities. As far as my group is concerned, it is difficult for both possible objections to justify the need for the criminal court to be able to rule on offences committed by a central or decentralised government. Of course, a government has a special position in carrying out a public-law task, and that will be taken into account by a criminal court. And if that public-law task was precisely the compelling reason that the official or legal person committed the offence, then the criminality lapses, so the law regulates. Moreover, I have, of course, asked questions about how the criminal court should be able to determine this. But if the task of public law does not force the government or official to commit a criminal offence, what is the justification of immunity, of being above the law of the government? The time when we thought about the government in the sense of untouchable, infallible or sacred have we left? The authority of the government seems to benefit my group from accountability to the criminal court if that is the case. There's nothing unusual about that. Apart from this principled positive attitude, my critical questions already show that we are not yet fully convinced of the actual effect in practice of the waiver of immunity. The inclusion of an evaluation clause is therefore reassuring for us. We assume that the evaluation will address the questions raised in this Chamber. But first of all, I hope that the initiators will be able to clarify the effects of their much-desired law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-eerstekamer-4.u11	A minute earlier, you made a connection between the existence of criminal immunity on the one hand and the consequence of that, namely that the government is above the law. Isn't that a little too dramatic? Aside from criminal immunity, isn't the government supposed to be above the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-eerstekamer-4.u12	That's quite right. However, this legislative proposal is concerned with the partial removal of that special position by removing immunity from it. Of course, the government isn't above the law, but she doesn't have to answer to the criminal court. That's what I'm talking about. This could indeed send out a signal that the government would benefit from immunity. But you're right: the government is not above the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-eerstekamer-4.u13	Mr. Chairman. Many parties are in favour of democracy, because they believe in the goodness and wisdom of man. The SGP is in favour of the democratic form of government, precisely because we believe that man is inclined to evil. Therefore, the power must not lie in the hands of one person or body. That leads to tyranny or dictatorship. We should therefore be lucky to be living in a rule of law, a country where the various powers in our state system have their own place and competence. No strict separation of powers, but spread. Government, parliament and judge each have their own place. That is a Calvinist principle, based on the assumption that it is much better to divide power over more people or institutions. Together, but each with its own task and responsibility, they exercise state authority. There is certainly a possibility of criticizing the different powers within our Dutch state system. On the whole, however, we should be grateful for a government and judge that is not acting randomly, but in accordance with the principles of the rule of law. This is without prejudice to the fact that it is good to think from time to time about the precise relationship between those different powers. That is also what the proposers of the bill intend to do. On behalf of the SGP, I would like to congratulate them on the great work they have done. It is an interesting, but not a simple theme. You won't win a lot of votes with it. But it is a theme that is worth considering in greater detail. In the case-law of the Court of Justice, in particular in the Volkel and Pikmeer II judgments, a line has developed which means that individuals can be brought to justice, but not the public authorities as a whole. The State shall be subject to criminal immunity. The courts have left more room for criminal liability on the part of local authorities. Their immunity only applies if they act as part of the exclusive administrative function. The initiators must be admitted that the current text of the Criminal Code does not make this distinction clear. Article 51 of the Code of Criminal Law does not deal with public authorities separately, whereas it does in case law. Codification of this legal practice seems obvious. But this proposal goes further, and we are beginning to have serious doubts and objections. The role and place of the government remains unclear. Is it really about the treatment of equal cases? In their proposal to waive criminal immunity, do the applicants take sufficient account of the very nature of the government? The SGP would like to underline that we cannot simply align the government, which has a public function, with a civil legal entity. That is an undesirable alignment. I would like to point out that the criminal acts of political officials can be punished even now; see Article 119 of the Constitution. Normally, someone is only punished by the criminal for a crime. In the public sector, there are already several control mechanisms. There is a coincidence between the constitutional and criminal proceedings. Firstly, there is political accountability. Are we going to do that again with the lifting of criminal immunity? And how does that relate to the starting point of "ne bis in idem"? Another consideration is that the government should set a good example. Of course, the SGP agrees with that. But is this not achieved by careful parliamentary accountability? In addition, do citizens really think it is important to have a second "process" and also to deal with it in criminal terms? Will the authority of the government be increased if the judge sits on the legislator's seat? What happens if the legislator, or the parliament, in a controlling role, believes that there has been a proper action and that the judge decides otherwise? And the other way around: if, after careful assessment, the judge finds out that there is a justification, that will once again be a disappointment for the citizen, and that will affect rather than confirm the authority of the government. The Advisory Section of the Council of State points out the possibility of increasing the criminal liability of individual officials, but does not wish to hold the public body as a whole liable. I doubt that's the answer. I agree with the initiators: it does not seem entirely consistent. An official who sees his behavior threatened by the magnifying glass of criminal judgment can reason two ways. Positive: he's going to act more carefully. Or negative: he's going diving. The SGP has the impression that greater liability of individual officials will provoke diving behaviour and lead to an expansion of paraphrase culture. The state as a defendant and at the same time as a prosecutor: isn't that a curious consequence of this bill? Biblical wisdom teaches us that a house divided against itself will not exist. For the time being, the SGP is not yet fully clear on its added value. The practical and administrative consequences also remain shady. In addition, the idea of the state punishing the state is not easy to reconcile with the government as the highest authority. The alternative, "criminal but non-criminal," also conflicts with the intended principle of equality. Although legally correct, that means for the "feel of the people" anyway: no punishment. The specific justification for civil servants and public bodies performing a public task is an important addition to the original proposal. In this context, the UNG calls for a further clarification of the concept of "reasonably necessary for the public task" in the second paragraph of Article 42. Of course, it ultimately depends on the judge what this means in a specific case. But would the proposers, for their part, like to state as precisely as possible what they are and not what they are? At the moment, the SGP is not convinced that this bill, with in itself understandable intentions, is actually a good proposal and represents an improvement in the balance between the powers. That is why I look forward with great interest to the reaction of the proposers, but also to the input of the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-eerstekamer-4.u14	Mr. Chairman. The sound of sirens outside has nothing to do with my contribution. I can assure you of that. "The king can do no wrong" or in Shiker Latin, which lawyers can sometimes do: rex non potest peccare. The king can't make mistakes. This adage has old papers. The sovereign prince was above the law, was himself a legislator and also a judge. In the meantime, the state system has changed radically, but the expression echoes in the debate we are having here today. Today we are talking about the lifting of the criminal immunity of the State and also of the local authorities, to the extent that this has not yet been the case. That also says something about our view of the government. Where the designation of the King's infallibility in the past could be regarded as a capital crime, the naming of the infallibility of the State and the lifting of criminal immunity has now led to a thorough and lengthy debate. That's a good thing. That's what I'm saying to the proposers. I would like to congratulate them today on a solid piece of legislation on initiative, which has already been a long journey. I therefore ask them to pass these compliments on to all their predecessors who have been working on this initiative proposal. During that journey, a number of questions of principle and a number of practical ones were raised. For the Christian Union Group, it is important to further deepen or clarify on a number of points. I shall begin with the questions of principle. If fundamental standards have been violated, it is very undermining public confidence if this remains without consequences. My group shares the inconvenience that has been expressed on several occasions. For example, reference can be made to the incidents involving the poison vessels. I therefore sympathise wholeheartedly with the authors when they write that this is one of the reasons for coming to this initiative proposal. With this draft law, the proposers opt for a wider applicability of criminal law, stating explicitly that this is an ultimatum remedium. The Christian Union Group sees that this choice stems from the weighing of many alternatives and tends to follow the proposers, but at the same time it wants a more in-depth answer from the proposers on a number of underlying questions. After all, with the teaching of sovereignty in mind, some of the proposers are familiar with it. Where immunity exists, this should be based on the confidence that appropriate self-regulation will take place within the circle or body concerned. The government is such a special circle, with its own democratic process, which should contribute to a sense of standard and, if necessary, restoration of justice. Can the proposers state exactly what they think is wrong now? On what points and to what extent do they now believe that the government is losing confidence because of the current structure of our system? Is there a lack of restoration of justice within the government's circle? Other possibilities, such as a more limited waiver of immunity or an extension of the persecutive nature of criminal duties, have been discussed in detail in the written preparation and in the debate in the House of Representatives. I would like to know from the authors whether they have also considered considering whether there is any possibility of leaving the ultimatum remedium of criminal law in the medicine cabinet. The strengthening of one's own circle, the special position of the government which gives everyone confidence that when there are abuses they do not set aside the right but through their own democratic processes comes to justice and restoration of justice, should be the drive first of all. Or do the proposers, by definition, consider that impossible within the current system? I also ask this because I see this treatment as an opportunity to strengthen the aspect of political and administrative accountability. That is why I am curious about the Minister's view on this. The proposers clearly state that the government must be measured by its own measuring standard. The Minister writes that standard confirmation and moral legitimacy of government transactions are primarily objectives of democratic accountability. I agree that the primacy lies in democratic accountability, and my group believes that the proposers do the same. However, the Christian Union would regret the fact that the lifting of criminal immunity would lead to a de facto deterioration in public and democratic accountability. Do the applicants have any idea how, since the Pikmeer II judgment, the quality of political and administrative accountability among the local authorities has improved or deteriorated? Is there a line to draw on the consequences of the current bill? The contradiction between the principle of non-discrimination in criminal matters and public accountability in the democratic debate is in any case not perceived as problematic by the authors in the practice of the local authorities. They do not know any examples. However, the Christian Union considers it conceivable that a director should resign without democratic accountability having already taken place. Now it also happens a few times that a minister or secretary of state will quit before the debate takes place in which the question of trust will sound. How do the proposers interpret this? What do they consider desirable for confidence in the government? How is this bill strengthening in this respect? The government's own task and accountability structure makes it special. The general abolition of the criminal immunity of governments can also say something about the view of the government in general. The applicants referred not only to the exemplary role of the public authorities, but also to the principle of equality. They ask what the difference between local authorities and the State legitimizes. That's a fair question. Can the applicants briefly explain why they do not opt for a gradual approach which is more in line with the codification of case law? Why not opt for a more limited explanation of the principle of equality? Moreover, the second Pikmeer judgment considers that criminal proceedings in themselves are not contrary to political and administrative supervision. Surely you could see that as a compelling thing to do with the Volkel arrest. In this sense, case law has developed. I therefore see opportunities for the proposers. I can't wait to see what they mean. The interpretation of European case law in this area is different, as it has just been made clear in the exchange of views between colleagues on this matter. I would like to hear from the proposers whether a alignment of the State's position with the present position of the local authorities would in their view be an appropriate response to the case law that has been established on this subject to date. The last piece the Chamber received from this bill was from the Minister of Justice. In it, he identifies the risk of a sliding scale. This means that the application of this law is now seen as an ultimatum remedium, but that it will still be more and more criminal proceedings, while the democratic process should have the primacy. How do the proposers consider the danger of the sliding scale? A second point I would like to hear from the authors is the unity of government policy. The Minister states that the Minister of Justice could be addressed by a fellow minister on the decision taken by the Public Prosecutor's Office to prosecute a department under the responsibility of the relevant fellow minister. It should be noted, however, that a prudent approach can also be expected from fellow ministers in this area. I would like to hear from the authors how they consider the Minister's concerns. Do they find these concerns theoretically or do they take this loss by taking on board the premise of the Roelvink Committee that a government that lays down rules on social movements loses its credibility when those rules do not apply to itself? More practical in nature are cases that play around the tolerance policy. From municipal practice, I know that a municipal department makes annual choices regarding the themes on which it will act firmly. The size of the organisation simply does not lend itself to comprehensive supervision. With more extensive supervision, a municipality or a national inspection will surely find more wrongdoing. Sometimes the wrong theme is chosen and it would have been better if other priorities had been set. Can it be used against these bodies or an individual official if the policy of tolerance is based on priorities? If a democratic body sets these priorities, what are the consequences of this, according to the authors? I'll come to a conclusion. A lot of literature has been published on the lifting of the government's criminal immunity. I would say that there are almost as many views on it. The proposers and their predecessors make an informed choice. The rules that a government lays down also apply to that government itself. The Christian Union Group welcomes the careful weighing of alternatives. However, a number of questions of a fundamental and more practical nature deserve further answers in order to be able to weigh this bill to the full. I therefore look forward very much to the reply of both the proposers and the adviser to this Chamber, the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-eerstekamer-4.u15	Mr. Chairman. The present bill has been on the road for almost ten years before it starts its finals in this Chamber today. Other speakers have also mentioned this. I would like to congratulate the initiators or proposers on the many efforts they and their numerous predecessors have put into this important legislative proposal. An incubation period of almost ten years is richly long for a bill. Of course, we are not supposed to make a habit of it. I also assume that this will not be the case. However, we can see that the thinking on the proposal has not stopped during the preparatory period. A number of important social developments and events have left their mark on this bill in a positive sense. I am thinking, for example, of the case law of the ECHR. It was not by chance that the ECHR's ruling of 18 June 2002 or 30 November 2004 on Öneryildiz/Turkey led Mr Wolfsen to submit the present legislative proposal. When I talk about the events relevant to this bill in recent years, the following things stand out: the firework disaster in Enschede, the large fire in Volendam, the fire in Schiphol's cell complex, the fatal accident of a firefighter in Utrecht, the fire in the Catshuis and the judgment of the court of The Hague, the affair with the asbestos ship Otapan from 2006 to 2012 and the judgment of the Court of Amsterdam of 12 December 2012 concerning the Article 12 proceedings brought by Greenpeace concerning the criminal involvement of the Ministry of VROM in the authorisation of the Otapan, and finally the Probo Koala case, in which among other things the municipality of Amsterdam was prosecuted for allowing waste to be pumped back into the ship. It should be noted that these are relatively often environmental offences. In almost all of these events, the question was whether the government, either centrally or decentrally, could be blamed in criminal terms. In our opinion, this fact shows that there is a need for this legislative proposal. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the legislative proposal deals with the criminal status of legal persons governed by public law, but does not explicitly address the meaning and scope of the concept of "legal persons governed by public law." What exactly are we supposed to mean by that? Which state institutions and semi-public institutions are included, both under current law and under future law? More specifically, I wonder what, in the light of the legislative proposal, is the position of 'the institutions that have been set at a distance from the Empire'. I take that wonderful wording from the report of the Court of Auditors. In this context, it has distinguished the following categories: (1) legal entities with a legal function (RVTs) such as national museums, (2) independent administrative bodies (zbos) such as the CBP and the Election Council, (3) institutions with a legal function not being a zbo or an RWT such as housing corporations and hospitals, (4) state holdings such as Schiphol and NS, (5) institutions with a grant, guarantee or loan such as the Guarantee Fund for the Healthcare sector, and (6) institutions with a concession or contractual relationship such as Infraspeed B.V. In this context, the General Court speaks of "a not clearly defined conglomerate of institutions remote from the Empire." I also note that in the report "Disconnected?" of this Chamber on the Zbo's it is stated that there are several private-law Zbo's, although the framework law gives preference to independent administrative bodies for a public-law form. There are some ZBOs without legal personality. These are, for example, the Election Council and the CBP. Furthermore, the report states that ZBOs may differ in terms of the degree of human autonomy, financial autonomy and in terms of the performance of their tasks. Also, according to the report, there is a limited ministerial responsibility for ZBOs, but no precise standards are required for this. I would therefore like to hear the views of the initiators on the immunity of the aforementioned institutions which have been removed from the Empire, also in the light of the recent request of the Second Chamber to the Government to come up with a fundamental review of the system of Zbos and RWTs. I would ask the authors to include their previous answers to questions from the CDA group in the House of Representatives. It appears from the explanatory memorandum that the societal standard confirmation, also in relation to the exemplary role of the government, is a central reason for the legislative proposal. However, some parties are of the opinion that we have already heard that this is a reason of insufficient importance for lifting the criminal immunity of the government. On request, the Minister for Security and Justice noted that, according to the government, the assessment of the action of the government in our constitutional order should primarily take place in the procedures of political and administrative accountability laid down in the Constitution and other regulations. The Minister adds that these democratically legitimised procedures also assess broader, including moral, criteria than in criminal proceedings, and that the risk of the legislative proposal is that the primacy of political and administrative accountability will be undermined. On the one hand, the Group of the Party of European Socialists also believes it is very important that, as the authors also endorse, the issue of political and administrative accountability should continue to be a priority, even if the legislative proposal before us is made law and will enter into force. In my view, the authors rightly point out that the political and administrative assessment is primarily concerned with policy, decision-making and implementation. On the other hand, the Group of the Party of European Socialists considers it very important that possible criminal offences committed by the State can lead, where necessary, to criminal proceedings. The practice of the past decades has taught us that political and administrative accountability in socially relevant areas sometimes falls short. In addition, it is important for the SP Group that in such situations criminal law can in itself contribute to restoring the citizens' trust in the government that has been violated. It seems to the SP Group that, now that the government and some of the parties in this House are seeing too much opposition, it is also very much to be defended that the new criminal liability alongside the other two can strengthen the democratic rule of law. Moreover, it can rightly be argued that a criminal conviction underlines the validity of the violation of the standard and that the non-punishment of criminal offences undermines that standard, as the Roelvink Committee argued some time ago. Therefore, the SP Group would like to hear from the authors how they assess the relationship between political and administrative accountability on the one hand and criminal accountability by the State on the other, which is an important element in the legislative proposal. The SP Group would also like to hear whether they share the government's view that the bill undermines the primacy of political and administrative accountability. As in the report "Disconnected?" In the past few decades, the Dutch government has privatised or independent many cases and organizations. This development can be briefly summarized as the receding government. Some speakers before me said that the government cannot refrain from carrying out a legal task. I don't think this is right. In practice, we often see that the government has a number of legal tasks, but that it simply does not carry them out or supposedly resigns. I refer, for example, to cutting down on supervisory bodies such as the Labour Inspectorate, now the SZW Inspection, but also to the tolerance of hazardous substances and production processes as well as to environmentally hazardous situations. Tolerating the use of, for example, chromium-6 paints and asbestos is part of this. Note, for example, the issue of Q fever, which still plays in society. In the investigation that was eventually initiated, it appeared that the burdensome report which was very relevant had remained at the bottom of a drawer for two years in the Ministry. In the meantime, a major epidemic has been overcome and has caused serious damage. I know that this is looked at in civil law in the sense that those responsible in that case are likely to be addressed in civil law. If this bill had already become law, you can imagine that criminal action should be taken against those responsible in that case. In the opinion of the SP Group, this trend could lead to the government giving up so much of its original core tasks that it would exceed a limit. In the view of the European Court, that result may lead to a tort or criminal act by the State. The judgment of the ECHR in Öneryildiz/Turkey is a strong example and strong argument. I would also like to draw attention to Professor Van Sliedregt's pre-opinion, which has already been mentioned, in which she concludes: "There is a line in the ECHR ruling that appropriate criminal investigations should be carried out in the event of death or life-threatening risks, including serious negligence on the part of the responsible authorities, in the case of dangerous activities, including natural disasters." I believe, however, that the case law of the ECHR is a strong argument for this bill. Let us be clear: we are bound by the European judge. So we have to follow up on these statements. In response to questions from MPs, the initiators of the bill replied that they do not expect the new law to lead to significantly more criminal proceedings against the State. In the opinion of the SP Group, that is still doubtful. It is precisely in most of the cases I mentioned in my introduction in recent years that environmental and labour problems were involved, and the State had been seriously flawed. According to the SP Group, it is certainly conceivable that the combination of the new law and the case law of the European Court of Justice will lead to more and more criminal charges being brought against the State in these serious calamities. That will not happen with the lighter calamities, but with the more serious ones. I would like to hear how the initiators look at this. Finally, my next question. The Minister for Security and Justice states in his letter of 20 May 2015 that there is a low likelihood that the European Court will quickly assume that the ECHR is forcing a public legal person, in particular the legal person State, to be criminally prosecutable. In view of the government's attitude to the environment and labour field, the regressing and cutting-edge government, recent ominous developments in care, the continuing message to the citizens "solve it yourself" and its potentially harmful consequences for citizens, the SP Group still feels that there is little basis for the government's assessment cited above. In other words, the SP Group very much doubts that. Do the initiators share this view of the SP Group? We look forward with great interest to the reply of the authors of the bill and the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-eerstekamer-4.u16	Mr. Chairman. One of the best presidents of the United States, President Ronald Reagan, was certainly not a scared leader, but the words "I'm from the government and I'm here to help you," he found terrifying. I understand his fear. Governments are getting bigger and more powerful, even in the Netherlands. For example, in 2015, the Dutch government collected more than twice as much tax from its citizens as it did 20 years ago, while the population only grew by 14% in the same period. The Dutch government is huge. Its expenditure now accounts for almost half of national income. Among other things, it is up to us, members of the States-General, to tame the ever-expanding government. Because the greater the state, the greater the risk of abuse of power. Let me therefore express my appreciation for the initiators of this proposal. In fact, this initiative proposal removes the immunity of the public authorities, the criminal law being understood. That is a good thing. It gives society an additional tool to appeal to the government for potential misconduct. Because why should the State enjoy criminal immunity? Immers, our Henk and Ingrid and the legal entities they have created or work hard for will be prosecuted when they commit criminal offences. Good example does follow well. A government, which requires its citizens to act in accordance with the law, can be expected to be held responsible, in particular criminal law, for its conduct and failure to act. In the debate held in the Lower House, the MP Van der Steur referred to the views of Professor Van Sliedregt, who, among other things, pleads for the waiver of the immunity of factual administrators in public administration with the aim of being liable as such or as natural persons. My question to both the proposers and the minister is now to what extent they consider this opinion of the renowned Amsterdam professor still relevant if this initiative legislative proposal is made law after the votes. Or do they consider that the professor's opinion has been adequately followed by this initiative proposal? I have another question for the Minister and the proposers. The government shall establish rules and procedures applicable to the admission of asylum seekers and the issuing of asylum permits. However, now that VVD executives on behalf of the PvdA have already opened the doors of our crowded country wide, implode services like the COA and the IND. The result is that the rules and procedures laid down are deliberately and knowingly not being complied with. Now it is a fact that among the many asylum seekers there are terrorists or potential terrorists. Now, my question to the Minister and to the proposers is: whether, in other words, when terrorist attacks are committed in the Netherlands by these jihadis imported by the government, can the State or, for example, the COA or the IND be prosecuted on the basis of this new law? The offence could then, for example, be blamed for death on the basis of Article 307 WvS. In that context and in these times, I would like to conclude by saying that a government that does have the power to protect its citizens but does not do so enough is perhaps even scarier than the horror Ronald Reagan was talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-eerstekamer-4.u17	Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? I see that this is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-eerstekamer-4.u18	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Chamber for allowing us to be here. I would also like to thank all of us for the compliments we, the proposers, and our predecessors have received. However, it would not have been possible without the very hard work of our colleague Langenhuizen. In particular, I would like him to be mentioned in the compliments for the hard work. In addition to these compliments, however, there were a lot of questions and critical notes, which we now hope to take away. The bill now before us is an incredibly important bill. It is about the legitimacy of the government, about the trust that we must be able to put in the government and about the functioning of the rule of law. It is characteristic of the rule of law that the government is bound to measure and rule, I quote Professor Schuyt. The government itself should therefore also be subject to the rule of law, but it is not. It is not that when it comes to the most serious abuses, namely those which are dealt with by criminal law. The government has defined itself outside the responsibility of the criminal court. That's not right. All animals are equal, but some animals are more equal than others. In the context of Article 2 of the ECHR, the European Court of Justice says: "National courts should not under any circumcision be prepared to allow life-endangering safeguards to go unpunished'. That is what the European Court expects us to do. Can we offer that? No. Why not? I know that there is a lot of discussion about what the European Court of Justice expects us to do. If under Article 2, which concerns the protection of life, individual civil servants cannot be prosecuted and the government is granted immunity, "life-endangering offences" will remain unpunished. Think of the fireworks disaster in Enschede, the Schiphol fire or the poison ship Probo Koala. It is not a question of large numbers, as I say, but of great consequences. I want to share a case with the Chamber. Two officials refuse to testify before the judge. They can't rely on their right to be spared. The officials are stuck because, as they say after lengthy discussion at their ministry and after consulting the national attorney, they have been banned from sharing their knowledge about the identity of a tipster. The granting of such a ban, the prohibition of judicial proceedings, is punishable. But who is actually punishable in this case? In view of the broad prior consultation, the organisation seems to be responsible for the whole of behaviour rather than the different individuals each for their part. But unfortunately, that organization, the state, is immune. This is an example of an obvious criminal offence that may, probably, go unpunished. The fact that the public authorities have a separate task, which is not comparable to that of companies or natural persons, is not a question of discussion. The fact that the government is responsible for representing the public service mission does not prevent things from going so wrong in the wake of that task that we can talk about criminal offences. Nor is there any question of whether the government itself, as a legal person governed by public law, can commit or commit offences despite that particular position, or whether it can be guilty in many other ways. It is not the subject of discussion here either. The fundamental question before us today is whether the government should also be a criminal offence for committing these offences. That's the point. Another question is how to express the special position of the government. Mr Oskam will reply to that later, in relation to the grounds for exclusion. I also note that this is not new. We've heard of felonies. In doing so, it is not the government itself but a body of government, namely a minister, that is already punishable under current legislation. So the government could be a perpetrator, but it's not a criminal offence. A number of members, including from D66 and the VVD, have put forward one basic argument to argue why this criminality would not be right: the government must publicly justify itself. This makes public accountability and criminal accountability unfair to each other, as forms of accountability that exclude each other. Of course there may be practical problems, and I shall come back to them later, but these two ways of explaining do not bite each other in principle. They are different domains, with different balancing frameworks, which already exist alongside each other. Think of local authorities outside the exclusive public remit. Think of abuse of office. Or, as I remember from my own experience, think of a corrupt official, who is dismissed and can go to the civil servants' courts and who is prosecuted. In response to questions from, again, D66 and the VVD, I stress that only public accountability can never replace criminal accountability. The Chamber and the city council lack a well-equipped research apparatus with associated powers. They cannot punish or recover. They cannot see the role of public authorities in relation to the role of co-actors. In particular, it is important that their review frameworks are different: broader and I fully agree with the Court of Auditors as a priority. The only way to speak of 'ne bis in idem' is to prosecute twice, as I say to the SGP Group. However, this is not the case because it concerns administrative accountability and criminal prosecution. Moreover, as I say to the Christian Union Group, I say this by heart; it can also be the Green Left Group; it can often impose penalties on the State, for example in the case of administrative fines. In short, public accountability and criminal accountability do not bite each other in principle. They can even strengthen each other. I come to examples from practice, as requested by the Labour Party. We know from practice that public and criminal accountability combines well. Take, for example, the conviction of the municipality of Stichtse Vecht. After the fatal accident on a road for which the municipality was responsible, that road was quickly, and finally, adapted. Only much later came the verdict of the criminal court, who said: the municipality is guilty of death by guilt. This led to a strong debate in a popular city council. This is a good example of the generic preventive effect of criminality. This municipality is shocked, but also many other municipalities, because of course it has been published. They started scratching behind the ears. What's the deal with that? Do we give sufficient priority to keeping our road network safe? So, as I say to the VVD, it does not have to be a natural person who is being prosecuted as a criminal offence to serve as a good example. The central government also shows that these two domains exist side by side. Already. The officials who were not allowed to explain their knowledge of the tipster, whom I was just talking about, were the subject of a short political debate. In that political debate, however, it was considered relevant that this tipster should remain anonymous in order not to deter future tipsters. And that question does not lie primarily in front of the criminal court, should this come to the criminal court. All we know now is the report of the President of the Court of Arnhem-Leeuwarden. Another example is the fireworks disaster in Enschede. After extensive political accountability, the criminal trial took place later. The government's empty chair played very emphatically. Several parties were charged with criminal law, but one could not be addressed. The judge also considered in his judgment that this was a loss. The same applies to the Schiphol fire. Minister Donner even resigned. Then came the criminal proceedings, and there have been no problems with the coincidence. Let me be clear: this coincidence now also exists in the case of criminal cases. I'm just gonna say it again. Nevertheless, I know that there has never been a minister who has relied on his right of silence in political accountability. There has never been a mayor or alderman who has not openly been politically accountable in the knowledge that criminal proceedings could follow. In municipalities, this is already much more plausible than in the government. They can strengthen each other. At the Catshuisbrand, during the political accountability, the Lower House asked itself for a criminal investigation. I come to the question of VVD and CDA whether trust in the government cannot be properly reduced by criminal proceedings, for example after the dismissal of legal proceedings or after acquittal. I am sure that will not be the case. First of all, it can no longer be said that the government takes everyone the measure but not itself. The chair in the courtroom is simply filled. Then the question is much wider, namely: does the citizen have confidence in the judicial process? The case comes before the courts and as an independent part of the government it is also part of that government. Of this, I would like to say that public and transparent criminal proceedings are intended precisely to weigh well-founded and motivated interests. Of course, for a number of interested parties, this scheme will not be beneficial. This may lead to disappointment, but it seems to me to be wrong to decide in advance but not to use criminal law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-eerstekamer-4.u19	I did not ask that question directly, but I did address the subject of confidence. However, I would like to comment on Mr Recourt's statement that he cannot imagine that there will be less confidence in the government if the outcome of a criminal case involving the government is not what society wants. I'm just looking for a very quiet word. I was thinking "lightening," but that's not really what I'm talking about. But isn't this a little too much trust? Look at the current development of citizens' confidence in "politics" and meanwhile in justice. Can you assume that disgruntled citizens will be satisfied even if the outcome is not satisfactory, if there has been a transparent criminal trial? In a process of political accountability, they would not be in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-eerstekamer-4.u20	Fortunately, trust in justice is high in the Netherlands. That's still apparent from research. There is no substantial distinction between an ordinary communal criminal case and a prosecution of the government. We are not asking ourselves whether a particular murder case should be brought before the courts because the outcome may be that the defendant is acquitted. Many next of kin will ask: "Is this a fair trial? Is this right? 'Cause I'm pretty sure the suspect is the killer." That risk is inherent in criminal law. That may raise a question of trust, but it is not an argument for the government not to be a subject of criminal review, just as it is in a murder case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-eerstekamer-4.u21	One more time, Mr President, because it is an interesting subject. Isn't this an understatement of how part of society can react? The proposal put forward by the proposers is precisely to bring something new besides the usual criminal law and the usual criminal procedure that we know of, by bringing the government into it. Mr Recourt says that it should not really make a difference or make a difference. I have the feeling that society will look much more strongly at the outcome of the appreciation of criminal proceedings, in which the government is also expressly on trial, than it is already doing in cases of rumor. Otherwise the proposers would not make this proposal either. I'm a little worried. I think we share the view that trust in the government should not fall below the minimum. Then it is also about legitimacy; that is what Mr Recourt has all mentioned. But aren't the possible counterproductive effects a point that we should be more concerned about?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-eerstekamer-4.u22	At the moment, the government cannot allow itself to be subject to criminal investigations, at least in cases where that is not possible at the moment. At least that's a hollowing out of trust. It's literally that empty chair in court. I really cannot imagine that, in the case of a survivor of, for example, the fireworks disaster in Enschede, it is satisfactory that there are individuals or a commercial company there, but not the government, which also plays a role in it. If that government is there, it can of course lead to an undesirable outcome, but that is inherent in criminal law. For this, the criminal law procedure is the perfect one, in which interests are weighed and in which open and transparent all facts and elements are dealt with and can be discussed by opponents and opponents. In any case, you cannot say: the government, which takes everyone's measure, withdraws itself from responsibility at the time when it itself may go wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-eerstekamer-4.u23	Mr Recourt says: that empty chair. He also said: the government gets away with the dance. That chair is in court, but I tried to argue that that chair is there. It is only in another room, namely in the council room or in the chamber of the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-eerstekamer-4.u24	I thought I'd answered that, too. Of course that chair is over there, but that's another responsibility. That is a broader responsibility and not a responsibility as it can be for the criminal court. There's no punishment, no recovery, no investigation, and no powers of search and phone taps. All those elements that are possible in criminal proceedings are not possible in an administrative procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-eerstekamer-4.u25	However, the question remains as to why possible means of research would in one case lead to greater confidence and, in the other case, would not lead to greater confidence. That leap makes Mr Recourt, but he has no justification for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-eerstekamer-4.u26	My point is not that administrative accountability cannot lead to trust. My point is that it is two different kinds of responsibility. You then say as a government: everyone and every company in the Netherlands has to justify themselves criminally, but we as a government do not have to, because we have a very different form, which is not equal, namely administrative accountability. At that time, in the eyes of many, and at least in the eyes of us as proposers, you withdraw from a public, public and insightful review by the criminal court, which you do require for every other Dutchman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-eerstekamer-4.u27	I'd like to continue on that empty chair. Does Mr Recourt not underestimate the political process too much? He mentioned as examples the Schiphol fire and the Catshuis fire. The chair of the government would then be missed in the criminal proceedings. But a lot of lessons have been learned from the political process and it has led to a lot of measures. Especially at the Schiphol Fire, a minister quit and the like. Is Mr Recourt not a little too sceptical about this? Why should such an outcome not give enough confidence to citizens? What would a criminal trial against the government have added in such a case?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-eerstekamer-4.u28	I have already said that, in my opinion, it is wrong to set these two forms of accountability against each other, as if one excluded the other. Both are necessary. Good political accountability has been made at the Schiphol fire and good research has also been done. The latter is quite exceptional, because often that is a bit difficult. I have no criticism whatsoever of this, and I do not believe that this has undermined confidence in public and political accountability. What is also missing from the Schiphol fire, however, is the question of whether the government is liable for criminal law here. You can think of compensation, although that can also be done by civil means. This bill is not primarily intended for this purpose, but it does make it possible to claim compensation. However, it is mainly a question of who is to be called upon to commit such a very serious infringement. It should not be possible for a citizen or a company to do so, but not for the government. I will continue my speech and address the questions raised by the Christian Union on the subject. Of course, when choosing priorities, the wrong choices can be made afterwards. That was the point: if the government chooses priorities and says what it will or will not do, will it be in danger of being prosecuted when it has made the wrong choice? No, it's my answer, because it doesn't cause any problems in criminal matters. I define it as follows: in the implementation of the established public policy, establishing certain supervisory and enforcement priorities is not a criminal offence. This is precisely because prosecution of an official who, in the context of the exercise of, for example, municipal tolerance policies in certain areas, is less intensive or not supervised, cannot be successful. It is about pursuing policies that monitor enforcement, for example. Criminal offences are committed by citizens and businesses. For this, municipalities or their civil servants are not themselves liable for criminal liability. In these cases, criminal liability of a municipality or its officials can be limited to specific situations. This would be the case, for example, if a municipality or an official deliberately ignores concrete indications of an imminent danger to the safety of citizens, whereas the municipality or official could have removed that danger. Under this criterion, the criminal liability of the government is only seen. That is a very different criterion than when you have policy objectives and make choices that turn out to be unfortunate afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-eerstekamer-4.u29	It is a good thing for the Acts to focus on this. If I listen carefully to the petitioner, he says that general negligence, let me put it this way: you then generally make choices, and that turns out to be the wrong choices, and cannot lead to criminal prosecution. Only in the case of specific negligence, where the case is specific and where an official clearly makes a conscious choice, will it be possible to prosecute if this bill is adopted. Did I get that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-eerstekamer-4.u30	We do not want the judge to take political decisions. Political choices are political choices. A good example of this is Founding Fight. Founding Vecht was partly immune. However, citizens had said that a specific road was dangerous and that there had been an accident earlier. The municipality was aware of this. Then there was a fatal accident. A government can no longer say that it had other priorities and that it wanted, for example, to fix other roads. At least she'll have to take the road or take away the danger. The point is then really that you have knowledge of a very dangerous situation and do not occur. The Christian Union also asked whether ministers would not avoid their political accountability in the knowledge that they might be judged criminally. I'm not afraid of that. You see it happening now, very recently with Minister Opstelten and Secretary of State Teeven. Those are always political choices. It was a political choice to decide that they could not stay and they chose not to discuss this publicly in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-eerstekamer-4.u31	Of course, that's hard to say. There was still criminal immunity and it was another case. But with aldermen and mayors, for example, it may be different. The author is not at all afraid of it, but I think there are cases that are conceivable where it is very difficult for a director to give openness, because he is incriminating himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-eerstekamer-4.u32	As far as ministers and State Secretary are concerned, that is not the case, because it would be a criminal offence. Then nothing changes compared to the current situation and we have a very special procedure for that. Moreover, these criminal proceedings take some time, whether they be ministers or local administrators. I think the average minister or alderman has long left and his successor is there. This does not alter the fact that criminal responsibility can still lie with the municipality or the alderman. We know that there have been criminal offences since 1814 and that since Pikmeer municipalities are wider and more accountable. But I have said before that I really do not know any precedent or example in which a government servant has said: I say nothing more in this public accountability, because perhaps that will incriminate me. That's not the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-eerstekamer-4.u33	That is in line with a question I asked in my first term. Do the proposers have any idea how the local authorities have dealt with this tension of democratic accountability since the Pikmeer II judgment? Has this improved, has it become more or less? Do the proposers have any idea?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-eerstekamer-4.u34	I mentioned the example of Founding Fight. As far as I can tell, there was a political responsibility there. Afterwards, a criminal trial took place and, as a result of that criminal trial, it was discussed again in the city council of the Founding Vecht. It has not missed its impact on other municipalities. I don't know many other examples. There are a few that come to mind: the ladder in Utrecht at the canal and the fire dive. It's all things that have been broad in the media. A very recent case is that around a pole in Amsterdam. That pole was completely black and stood on a quay that was not illuminated either. A moped drove up against it and people died in it. Those are the media's business. Municipal Netherlands has become very alert: do we have that kind of thing right for each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-eerstekamer-4.u35	Finally, Mrs Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-eerstekamer-4.u36	Finally and briefly. I would ask the authors to include this aspect in the evaluation which is now part of the legislative proposal. As a former council member from Utrecht, I do recognize myself in the examples and the way in which democratic accountability can take shape. At the same time, I am genuinely concerned about this. It would be such a shame if, with good intentions, we were unable to undermine democratic accountability and directors could no longer justify themselves in the public domain for what has happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-eerstekamer-4.u37	In my view, it would be unanimously undesirable for public accountability to cease to take place. I don't think it's gonna happen, but it's nobody's intention. The evaluation should also be seen with great emphasis on this. I'm almost done with my play. There are two questions that still need to be answered. One question is for the SGP. When the Member of Parliament of the SGP said that man is inclined to evil, I thought that the conclusion would be that the SGP would wholeheartedly support the initiative legislative proposal. To my surprise, and also in contradiction with his colleagues in the House of Representatives, a different conclusion has emerged. Perhaps he will be able to comment on this in the second term. Furthermore, the VVD Group has asked whether we cannot make the Public Prosecutor's Office interested in administrative law, rather than opening this criminal route. That seems to me to be an undesirable situation. The proverb "shoemaker stays with you" came to my mind. The Public Prosecutor's Office must focus on its core task, and that is, after all, detection and prosecution. Not so long ago we had the debate in the House of Representatives on Bart van U. In this case, too, the Public Prosecutor's Office has a role that does not entirely fit into criminal law, namely the care of confused persons and of civil permissions in psychiatric establishments. The D.A. left it completely behind because it wasn't part of the core task. I would not like to extend this core task, but rather limit it. This brings me to the end of my reply. I give the floor to Mr Oskam.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-eerstekamer-4.u38	Unless I haven't been paying attention, I don't think my question as to how relevant Professor Van Sliedregt's advice is anymore has been answered. I also asked whether this initiative proposal is relevant in cases where bodies such as the IND and the COA do not do what they have to do, which has bad consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-eerstekamer-4.u39	It's true those questions haven't been answered. Mr Segers will answer that. But now, Mr. Oskam.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-eerstekamer-4.u40	Mr Recourt, I understand that you have finished your reply and I will now give the floor to Mr Oskam.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-eerstekamer-4.u41	Apologies, Mr. Chairman, that's what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-eerstekamer-4.u42	Mr. Chairman. I will deal with four themes. The first is the new penalty exclusion ground. I will also consider the position of the Public Prosecutor. The position of the Minister for Security and Justice has also been regularly discussed. Finally, I will address the unity of the Crown. Among others, members Van Bijsterveld, Engels, Beuving and Van Dijk have asked questions about the new grounds for exclusion. In order to successfully rely on that new grounds for exclusion under Article 42, it is actually required that, given the circumstances, breach of the legal requirement was necessary in order to carry out the public task. This means that, if it is reasonably possible to carry out the public task without violating other rules, so must it. Otherwise, if prosecution is brought and it is proven, the government concerned will simply be condemned. This means that there is no question of the exclusion of the grounds for punishment taking away what has been given with the waiver of immunities. However, the grounds for exclusion do show that, in the case of criminal proceedings, the authorities can be distinguished from other legal persons. As mentioned earlier by Mr Recourt, the exercise of public tasks sometimes forces the public authorities to violate other legal provisions for these tasks. Therefore, the government already uses existing penalty exclusion grounds, such as force majeure and implementation of a legal requirement. In fact, they are already far-reaching. However, we consider it necessary to add a separate grounds for exclusion. Although it may not go beyond the other grounds for exclusion, it is above all a clarification of the way in which we look at public transactions in this context. The new paragraph added to Article 42 is a species in relation to the aforementioned grounds for exclusion. This reflects the particular nature of the importance of the public tasks entrusted to it by law. That interest may weigh heavily, but if the action that results from it is not proportionate to the public task, that action remains punishable. This is in fact the case now, on the basis of the existing grounds for exclusion and case law. Mr Schouwenaar of the VVD has asked questions about the grounds for exclusion. In fact, he suggests that this exclusion could only be dealt with if the criminal proceedings have already started. However, that is not the case. The Public Prosecutor's Office will assess whether a case is brought before a court, the feasibility of the prosecution, including whether the grounds for exclusion are already applicable. If this is the case, there is, of course, no point in criminal proceedings and the Public Prosecutor's Office can dismiss the case. Furthermore, the senators English and Van Dijk asked to make the penalty exclusion grounds more concrete. We have said that it is about facts and circumstances and it is ultimately up to the judge to look at them. The problem with grounds for exclusion in legislation is that they are a little more general. That's because they limit criminal liability. That's actually always for the benefit of the suspect. That's the idea behind it. Let me now turn to the examples. In fulfilling the criterion of whether it was reasonably necessary to carry out the public task, the principles of proportionality and subsidiarity are guiding, I must say in advance. I say this knowingly, because we in the Chamber are testing that people think that the judge is going to pass political policy. But that's not the issue. The first example is this. No appeal can be made to the penalty exclusion grounds when a municipality stops fire services completely overnight and people are killed in fire. If a municipality, for example because of austerity, responsibly reduces the number of fire-fighters and makes agreements on this with the safety region that will then be able to do so in general. Another example is that roads have become impenetrable due to a storm. A municipality or a government cannot be required to immediately take any danger on any road, but to warn residents and traffic participants and put fences. A government that does so can appeal to the cause of justice. A third example, it may be a bit harsh when the government has to quarantine a substantial number of people due to an Ebola outbreak. These people are pressing charges and saying that we do not need to be detained at all. The D.A.'s gonna have to investigate this. Then, of course, the question is: has the government acted proportionally? If so, prosecution on the basis of unlawful deprivation of liberty has no chance of success. In fact, the grounds for exclusion remove illegality. Once again, I stress it, the assessment of the proportionality and subsidiarity of public action is a legal assessment. This does not mean that the judge is going to determine government policy or the priority setting. There is really no need to worry about that. The groups of the CDA and the Socialist Party have asked questions about the taxation of the judicial system, should the legislative proposal come into force. We understand that the VNG sent a letter to the Chamber. That's what we got. The VNG says that there is a very heavy burden on the judicial system. According to the VNG, the public prosecutor would be given a huge mandate to implement a balanced policy of prosecution against legal persons governed by public law. Senator Ruers has asked questions about this and mentioned some nice examples. He said that in cases such as the Volendam fire and the Schiphol fire, it could lead to criminal investigations, which would involve additional work for the Public Prosecutor's Office. But that's actually already the case. If, in the case of the fire in Volendam, the municipality had not properly implemented the permit policy or enforcement, it could have already been brought to justice. The Probo Koala case may also be a good example. The municipality of Amsterdam was subject to investigation in that case. It could have come out that the central government has also played a bad role. Then the municipality of Amsterdam could have been prosecuted, but not the national government. I don't think it really leads to more work. If that's the case, we don't mind. These are, after all, the issues we are talking about and which we believe should be dealt with under criminal law. These are often cases where people die or where people's health is seriously compromised. I'm going back to the VNG's letter. The coincidence is that the District Attorney's Office sent a letter to the House of Representatives. We have asked the D.A. to take a look at this bill and state what it means for the D.A.'s office. On the contrary, the College of Attorney General is positive about the bill. The people who should be doing this, at the Functional Parket, are also very positive about it. Before I came here, I saw a tweet coming by from a member of the Functional Parket. It said that they were going to look with interest at the handling of the bill in the Upper House.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-eerstekamer-4.u43	I think I read in the letter that the pgs explicitly distance themselves from expressing a political opinion on the desirability. They only say: when it happens, it is the most pure form. That's something else, I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-eerstekamer-4.u44	That's right. We believe with the SP that more declarations may be made in the beginning, just after the law enters into force. Then there will be the possibility and more Article 12 procedures. However, we do not see any reason to believe that administrative bodies will often commit facts for which other legal persons can be prosecuted, but not themselves. The same applies, of course, to local authorities. It is not the case that all kinds of municipalities will suddenly be dealt with by criminal law, because that is what can happen. There's got to be reason to do that. We think that will settle down. I'll see if I can forget anything else. Perhaps in abundance: in determining the opportunity to prosecute, we must also take account of the fact that political and democratic accountability mechanisms must always prevail. That's the way it is. When a public authority does things, it has to be politically and democratically accountable. Once again, we have never wanted to give the impression that this legislative proposal should lead to a large-scale criminal action against administrative bodies. There is no need and we do not want it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-eerstekamer-4.u45	Let me build on a little debate I had with your colleague Recourt earlier. I get the feeling that you may be underestimating a certain amount of social pressure on this point. I fully understand what you are saying: we are starting from our vision behind this bill, and on the basis of that vision we assume that this will not lead to large-scale prosecution of public authorities or public officials. However, if the law is passed, you are no longer concerned with it. Then it is entirely up to the free play of social forces whether or not they put a lot of pressure on prosecutors, under Article 12, to deal with these authorities a little harder, just to put it in that language. Don't you underestimate that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-eerstekamer-4.u46	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-eerstekamer-4.u47	Why not?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-eerstekamer-4.u48	I've been a prosecutor myself, ten years, and I don't think that's how it works. It's possible that people who are victims of the government are pressing charges. Then the procedure is such that the D.A. will have that investigated and make a decision in that regard. If it says not to prosecute, then the citizen can go to court. It's not like the D.A.'s office is. Mr Engels has just asked a question about this, and I was almost there. As far as Article 12 is concerned, it is more often the case of "Wilders' case that the Public Prosecutor does not really want and that the court says: you have to. Then the D.A.'s so professional that it's still handling the case in a state of law. There's no other way, because the judge's looking at it. If the D.A. makes a pot of it, it gets it on its plate. Everyone sees that, so such a Article 12 procedure provides sufficient guarantees. The court will decide. That says: here's a good chance to prosecute successfully. Then the D.A. has to do it. The D.A. is professional enough to handle that in a good way. Several political groups have asked questions about the position of the Public Prosecutor. As we have already written in the explanatory memorandum and said in the Lower House, the social pressure on the Public Prosecutor can be great in order to prosecute any serious incident involving a government body. How can we explain when and, above all, when there is no need to prosecute? That also responds to Mr Engels' question. The D.A. will have to explain why in one case it does and in the other case it does not prosecute. This can be because, for example, we want politics to take the lead. It may be that a prosecutor, if the political or democratic process is earlier or more radical, says: okay, I see that the alderman in question has resigned, then it is no longer appropriate to bring him before the criminal court. However, under circumstances, Mr Recourt has explained very clearly that it is and-and that something is so bad that the alderman has both resigned and still needs to be dealt with criminally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-eerstekamer-4.u49	I would like to come back to one point, also to reduce the second deadline, and I would like to say to the President. It is always a question of this legislative proposal contributing to greater public confidence in society. That is one of the starting points of the bill. I believe you immediately, not only because you have been an officer yourself, but also because the D.A. is a professional organisation, where mistakes are sometimes made, but that is not the point. I believe that this can be explained immediately and that a decision by the court is also possible. My point is that you set a very clear line between society and the confidence that should prevail. However, the way in which questions of law and problems are looked at from society is quite different from the way in which lawyers do so. They can convince each other much easier. You can do that here now. That's gonna work, I think. My concern is whether that would be accepted and what it would raise if it were not. Let me repeat my question: can it not also have counterproductive effects? If that's true, we've come a long way from home.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-eerstekamer-4.u50	I am very pleased to discuss this with you. However, we believe that it is up to the Public Prosecutor and the judiciary to explain clearly to people why certain decisions are being taken. People can disagree with that. Then someone else has to explain how it went. It may also be the case that people, because the government is condemned, say: well, it is actually a good thing that that government can be dealt with and that it can't just get away with it. Well, then, of course, I'm really talking about serious cases. Not about little things, but about serious cases where you say: logical that you quit, fine, but can this stay without any other consequences? Then I come to the position of the Public Prosecutor vis-à-vis...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-eerstekamer-4.u51	At the end of the day, I hear Mr Oskam say that people think that the government is getting away with something, but we are always saying here that there is a political and administrative responsibility or has already taken place. In fact, I think this is going faster than criminal law. If it's okay, then people have already been fired, because there was a motion of censure, or they have honored themselves. If it is right, the city council has already ensured that generous advances are paid for damages. This is regularly given to the college. If it is right, measures have already been taken to prevent repetition. That gives you confidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-eerstekamer-4.u52	Also, but so does the punishment. If a natural person does something or if it is negligent and someone dies because of it, then it must also come before the criminal court. If the government does something or doesn't do something, because it is negligent, and someone dies, then someone who works at an administrative board can quit or get fired and get watch money. We therefore believe that this person should also be in charge of the criminal justice system.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-eerstekamer-4.u53	You say now: that gives confidence, but trust is a complicated matter. I'm gonna repeat that professor of English. Sometimes we do not have the right view and the public, the vox populi or whatever we want to call it, judge that differently than we thought or hoped. Here it is that one third from outside, the criminal court, will eventually have to intervene, or correct something. You could also reason: the public then sees that the self-cleaning capacity is apparently inadequate and that a heavy weight from outside, the criminal court, is needed to get things done. This does not seem to me to be a confidence-building situation, on the contrary, which seems to me to be an unlikely argument, with a serious deterioration in confidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-eerstekamer-4.u54	I would like to comment on Mr Schouwenaar, but also on Mr Oskam. I might add an example from practice. I'm pretty good at the asbestos file. I know that there has been a ban on its use since 1993, and I am also aware that there is no state monitoring of compliance with that ban. People are still exposed. Parliamentary questions have been asked about this and all kinds of attempts have been made, but the board fails to do so. Minister Asscher wrote in a letter last year: I know that asbestos is still being used, for example in the large bakery ovens, but I am not doing anything about it, because that is up to the employers. I know, however, that the people exposed to it are very disappointed in the response of the Minister and in the public administration. They would be happy to say that if they could go to the criminal court, they would say that to me too. That is the ultimate remedium for them. It is a very serious matter, and the government is failing to do so. In my opinion, after the adoption of this bill, this type of victim will certainly have a very good solution with the lifting of immunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-eerstekamer-4.u55	Will you also answer Mr Schouwenaar's question, Mr Oskam?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-eerstekamer-4.u56	Let me start with Mr Ruers, which is the easiest thing to do. Yeah, and I don't think the Minister can argue with that. If he's been warned, it's gonna be a tough story, of course. I think it's a good thing that the government can be addressed. Let me now turn to Mr Schouwenaar's comment. There are multiple scenarios. It can be eliminated politically. A minister or alderman may resign, and the Public Prosecutor could say, for example, that this has been done with sufficient justice. It may also be that it is so bad that the prosecutor says: although the person concerned has resigned or has had political consequences, I am going to turn it into a criminal case. I think it's a good thing that the government can be dealt with and that the government can't get away with anything just because it's the government. There is another advantage to this bill. Now the next thing can happen. A civil servant is negligent. He can use it to commit criminal offences. Then that official will be brought to justice. Mr Engels also raised this point. He said, "Do you understand how much impact that has on an individual official?" With this bill, however, the Public Prosecutor can say: it is very difficult for this official, who has been negligent, to be brought to justice; in fact, the government body concerned is responsible. Let's say I'm just giving an example that Rijkswaterstaat has operated awkwardly. Then the D.A. can say that we are not addressing the official who knew there was a hole in the way but did not do anything about it, but we are addressing Rijkswaterstaat. He'll have to go to trial. We have not so often mentioned this, but I think this is actually the strength of our legislative proposal. Mr. Chairman. I come to the position of the Public Prosecutor vis-à-vis the government, and more specifically to the Minister of Security and Justice and his designation. This has already been addressed in the reply. We have also doubted it ourselves; we are just honest and open about it. In fact, in the original legislative proposal, we had deleted that power of designation. Nor is it desirable for the Minister himself to be able to intervene at the time when, for example, the prosecutor wants to prosecute himself or his colleagues. However, we would like to leave the Minister's power of designation. The opinion of the Council of State has convinced us on this. First of all, we want this because the Minister will be very reluctant to give a clue; I will come back to this in a moment. No, that is not going to happen, I say in response to a comment from the Minister I am receiving; this was a bit of interaction, Mr President. The minister can do it, but he never really does. We've asked him a lot of times, but he won't. As a result of this bill, could the Minister be tempted to do so? That would be the question. Actually, it doesn't seem like it. If the minister wants to give a clue, there are rules of the game. He must inform both the College of Attorneys General, who do not want to go to court after all, and the States General, First and Second Chambers. In the view of the Chamber, therefore, undesirable use of the instrument will quickly pose a political problem for the Minister. Secondly, in the form of Article 12, there is judicial review of the prosecution policy of the Public Prosecutor. An interested party may, in the event that the prosecution does not wish to prosecute, ask the court to give an order for prosecution to the D.A. An order for persecution by the court cannot be overturned by an instruction from the minister. Thirdly, we consider it undesirable to put the Public Prosecutor's Office completely at a distance with regard to the prosecution decision in individual criminal cases concerning legal persons governed by public law. As the Council of State wrote in its opinion on the removal of the power of designation: "The prosecution will act without ministerial responsibility for a concrete prosecution decision while the Minister's duty to provide information to the Chamber remains intact. This is particularly true when a decision not to prosecute, to offer a transaction or to impose a sentence independently.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... We therefore want the Minister to continue to be politically accountable for the decisions of the Public Prosecutor's Office, because that is what he is about, even when it comes to prosecuting the government. By the way, the College of Attorneys General has indicated that it shares this view. In short, we do see the dilemmas, but we do not see a practical problem if the power to designate remains. We consider it necessary, because of the political responsibility for the Public Prosecutor's Office with the Minister of Security and Justice, to leave that competence intact. Mrs Strik also asked a question about this. If the Ministry of Justice is being examined, you should then place the designation authority with another ministry or other minister, as said earlier. We do not really think so; we believe that this belongs exclusively to the Minister for Security and Justice. He is not only the head of the Public Prosecutor's Office, but he also deals with equality of law and legal certainty. I understand that people say, "Don't the butcher judge his own flesh?" But that is what we already have in the world of justice, because there is not only the Security and Justice Inspectorate which is examining its own ministry, but we also have the National Police Department which checks whether the police or others are doing things right. In the end, the Public Prosecutor's Office is also the organisation that prosecutes the police and other civil servants. There is also the judge's check. We therefore believe that there are sufficient safeguards to allow it to remain so. Furthermore, Mrs Strik asked whether if you change the system, you should not also remove the powers from the Crown and the House of Representatives and place them with the Minister for Security and Justice; that is how I understood Mrs Strik. We don't think so. It is a question of criminal offences, and we would not want them to be placed with one minister. It's a good thing the whole Crown is watching that. If a minister commits a criminal offence, you should not make it the responsibility of the Minister of Security and Justice, but either of the entire Crown, or of the House of Representatives. I come to my last point, the Crown's unit; I can already see you looking at your watch, Chairman. Mrs Van Bijsterveld of the CDA and Mr Schouwenaar of the VVD, as well as Mrs Bikker of the Christian Union, asked about the position of the Minister for Security and Justice and the Crown's unity. If I may sum it up briefly, they wonder to what extent that unit is being compromised at the time when the legal person State should be prosecuted, and what role the Minister of Security and Justice as responsible for the Public Prosecutor's Office has in this regard. I would like to reply to this as follows. It is true that the Minister for Security and Justice is in a difficult and special position in that case. He is politically responsible for the Public Prosecutor's Office, while that same Public Prosecutor could prosecute the State. Nevertheless, I see this as a theoretical discussion. The Public Prosecutor's Office, of course, operates to a high degree independently, and in practice the Minister does not interfere with concrete prosecution decisions. The Minister of V and J can therefore tell his fellow executives in the Council of Ministers that this is how it is going. It is possible, under the Law on the Judicial Organisation, that the Minister may give a designation to the Public Prosecutor in concrete cases. The Minister has the general power to give the Public Prosecutor an indication to prosecute or to refrain from prosecution. It can therefore exercise that power even if it concerns the State as a legal person. It's complicated, and as far as I'm concerned, it's undesirable. However, I do not see the danger of political interference in this matter happening in practice. From a designation to non-prosecution, the two Chambers of the States-General must be informed, as I have just said; this is prescribed by the same Law on the Judicial Organisation. A minister who orders the Public Prosecutor not to prosecute the state has really got some explaining to do. He will therefore be called directly to account in the Chamber, or in both Chambers. Suppose he has a majority in parliament that supports his suggestion that he should not prosecute, for example, and that he has political coverage, then the government is not removed and then persecution is not ruled out. Direct stakeholders may, through the Article 12 procedure referred to by Mr Engels, ask the court to enforce prosecution. If the court gives an order to prosecute, the Minister of Security and Justice, however sorry he may think it is, will no longer be able to stop that persecution. The court ruling overrulet, as it were, is power of designation. Even in the event that the Minister of Security and Justice would just give an indication of prosecution where the Public Prosecutor's Office would like to refrain from prosecution, this designation will be made public. It must be attached to the case documents and comes out along the band of criminal proceedings, and to the fact that this is quite unusual, lawyers will, of course, also appeal. In order to be complete and to avoid possible misunderstandings: prosecution decisions concerning directors and MPs who have committed or led criminal offences in the performance of their duties are really reserved for the Crown and the House of Representatives. In these cases, therefore, the Minister for Security and Justice cannot give any indication. Finally, the special position with regard to the prosecution of fellow ministers, in fact, the Minister for Security and Justice already has. If another minister drives drunk or commits a criminal offence which is outside the sphere of the criminal offences, and if this also goes outside the scope of his duties, the prosecution can simply be brought by the Public Prosecutor, for which the minister is responsible. In addition, the Chamber has no role to play. However, the Minister of Security and Justice could then give a designation to the Public Prosecutor. That doesn't change our bill. So the uncomfortable position already exists and it stays.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-eerstekamer-4.u57	Mr Oskam pointed out that the decision to prosecute for criminal offences should remain with the Crown and the House of Representatives. I've asked why that is. The D.A. is now inadmissible in bringing prosecutions for criminal offences, while the initiators would like to leave all the other crimes committed by the government with the D.A.'s office. It is not so much a question of designation. The question is why the D.A. couldn't decide to prosecute for criminal offences.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-eerstekamer-4.u58	In the Chamber or the government, you have to be able to make decisions that are political. Take the freedom of speech. If a minister says things that can't really be done, it falls under his freedom of expression and ultimately it is up to the government or the Chamber to say that it goes too far. We have not yet experienced this in the Netherlands, but in Italy, for example, Berlusconi has had to answer to the government for his statements.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-eerstekamer-4.u59	Should the prosecution also be able to prosecute for communal criminal offences?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-eerstekamer-4.u60	Yes. The D.A. doesn't do that lightly. The D.A. is a professional organisation, and we have confidence in it, but it is under the authority of the Minister of Security and Justice. If, for example, the Minister for Foreign Affairs is doing something very strange in the performance of his duties, it is, of course, annoying that the Minister for Security and Justice is being looked at. Then it is a good thing that the whole Crown states: here you have gone too far, we want to put that in the hands of the Public Prosecutor. That's the underlying idea. It's also the legal history.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-eerstekamer-4.u61	Madam President. I thank the spokesmen for their warm words in our direction. Mr Ruers referred to the long incubation period of the bill. That is absolutely a point. It gave us the opportunity to prepare ourselves fully and it also gave the Chamber the opportunity to prepare itself thoroughly. Thank you for the thorough contributions of the First Chamber. I will answer questions about the consequences for civil servants and about the penalties. At the end, I will answer a number of individual questions that have remained. Mr Schouwenaar of the VVD Group and Mr Van Dijk of the SGP Group asked about the impact of the bill on civil servants. Does this change the culture in a negative way and lead to diving behaviour by civil servants? Mr Engels of the D66 Group has mentioned the risk of a climate of what he called reputation management and legal control. Mrs Strik from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance has also pointed out the danger of legalisation. As initiators, we do not expect the bill to lead to risk-avoidance behaviour on the part of civil servants. That is an assessment, but we do have good reasons for doing so. I shall mention four. First of all, you can compare it with legal entities governed by private law. Employees in business can already be prosecuted in their duties. At the same time, we see enormous creativity and innovation in that same business. It certainly does not create insurmountable problems here. We must, of course, realise that the government has its own character; hence the grounds for exclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-eerstekamer-4.u62	Mr Segers also used that argument in the House of Representatives, I read in the Acts. He says there are no problems right now. However, this is difficult to measure because there is no alternative situation. In addition, we hear a lot of complaints from industry about a straitjacket or a set of rules. The UNG and the Council of State, not the first, are strongly warning of this. Doesn't Mr Segers think it's a little short-sighted to say that things are going well in business and that it's not so bad?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-eerstekamer-4.u63	I said I had four points, but I was only at the first point. Indeed, we do not have any comparative evidence. We do not know how that situation will turn out. That is why we are looking at business, where the sword of Damocles of criminal law is already hanging above the head of employees. One cannot say that there is a lack of innovation in business. Yeah, there are entrepreneurs complaining about cramping rules. They are hampered by rules, regulations. That's different from the threat of criminal law. The threat of criminal law does not hamper innovation and creativity in business. I drew that parallel. That was my first point. Secondly, civil servants are already subject to criminal law for criminal offences. The fact that officials can already be prosecuted for criminal offences does not limit them in their actions. If that is the case, it is for the right reasons, namely because they will not commit criminal offences. This is a desirable effect in the current situation. Thirdly, it is the work of civil servants that they must be alert to political and social risks in order to prevent their political boss from having one sitting behind the table now in political difficulties. As a rule, these political risks arise before the criminally permissible limit is reached. You can expect officials to be alert in any case and to be able to assess those risks, including criminal ones. This bill doesn't change anything. In this constitutional constellation of political responsibility, Mr Schouwenaar's very justified point has always been: that must not lead to a cramped administrative culture. I think we agree and share that wish. Fourthly and finally, I would like to draw attention to the intended impact of our legislative proposal. I am doing this in this case in the direction of Mr Engels, who was concerned about the impact of prosecution on the officials concerned. Precisely because we want to increase the criminal prosecution of legal persons governed by public law, the criminal prosecution of individual officials will not have to be paramount. In short, it may lead to less cramping rather than more cramping. Mrs Strik mentioned legal certainty for civil servants. Criminal law must not hang over their heads like a sword of Damocles; I referred to that metaphor earlier. It is fruitful to draw the comparison with the situation for all of us. We, too, have criminal law standards hanging over our heads in everyday life. Yet they are rather a clear norm that doesn't just come into view than a set of rules in which you get entangled very quickly with some inattention. At least I don't live in a constant fear of being persecuted. I would like to emphasise that criminal prosecution does not just come into the picture for civil servants. In fact, our legislative proposal makes it possible not to prosecute the civil servant, but also to look at the legal person governed by public law, for example the State. So much for the consequences for civil servants. I'm gonna move on to the part about punishment. Several political groups have rightly asked questions about punishing the State. I would like to summarize the essence of these questions: how can the State impose a fine on itself; is that a meaningful criminal sanction? We, of course, saw ourselves as initiators of this question as well. That issue is inevitable if you want to lift the government's criminal immunity. For example, we know the pre-advisation of Professor Van Sliedregt for the Dutch Juristen-Vereniging, to which several spokesmen have already referred. Professor Van Sliedregt does, however, advocate that immunity from criminal prosecution should be lifted, but without the possibility of punishing the government in the event of a conviction. Mrs Beuving asked us what the considerations were to make a different choice in this respect than Professor Van Sliedregt suggested. Mrs Van Bijsterveld also drew attention to the effectiveness of such a punishment. First of all, I would like to say something about the principle of sanctioning the government, and then I would like to address the practical questions raised by various political groups. First of all, I would like to comment on the fact that we do not have a problem in principle with imposing sanctions on the public authorities. The initiators did not choose to waive a sanction, because we do not see that fundamental problem in punishing part of the government. The argument that the cost of a fine ultimately falls to the taxpayer is justified in itself. It is an understandable question that has been asked. However, it has not prevented us from opening up justice in other cases where the burden on the taxpayer falls. Think of civil law. The law also calls for such a course of justice to be opened. We have tabled this bill to serve the right and the right. It is difficult to digest that in the event of gross abuses, the government can, as it were, withdraw from the criminal justice system, even if you respect the very nature of the government's circle. Many questions have also been asked about this. The argument of justice extends not only to prosecution, but also to sanctioning. The right as a means of social recovery must also be able to be directed at the government and then requires punishment. Although I can theoretically follow what Professor Van Sliedregt advocates in her expert advice, I fear that in practice it would lead to an unsatisfactory situation if you did condemn, but did not punish. This does not benefit from the confirmation of standards and does not do justice to citizens' sense of justice. Mr Van Dijk of the SGP Group rightly made a comment on this. The same applies to an approach in which only political responsibility is used in the event of criminal failure by the government. Both situations are unsatisfactory if the aim is to restore justice. Then there are a few questions of a more practical nature. Mrs Van Bijsterveld, among others, has drawn attention to the problem of pocket pockets.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-eerstekamer-4.u64	Perhaps I am early, but Mr Segers said he would move on to practical matters. I assume he will come back to the point that a compensation obligation or a recovery obligation can also be enforced through civil law, while criminal sanctioning, however you turn or reverse it, remains a pocket pocket scenario. Is he gonna come back to those civil rights options?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-eerstekamer-4.u65	The possibility of civil law is open. As far as criminal penalties are concerned, there are more options than the fine. I'll tell you more about that in a minute. Mrs Van Bijsterveld, as I just said, asked for attention to be paid to the problem of pocket pockets and asked how useful it really is to impose a fine on yourself. Mrs Strik van GroenLinks made similar comments. The prosecution shall be formally instituted against the legal person State as such. Materially, the fine will have to be paid by the department in which the offence was committed. It is also that department that will represent the State for the criminal justice. In the context of budgetary discipline, each ministry will have to stop its own pants. It is therefore certainly not the case that fines are paid by the Ministry of Finance. This is already the case, as I say in the direction of Mr Van Dijk, in the case of civil compensation. This is also covered by the rule that they are paid by the Ministry concerned. With regard to the proceeds of criminal penalties, I would like to point out that they will end up in the budget of the Ministry of Security and Justice. It will only be pocket pocket pocket if that fine is imposed on the Ministry of Security and Justice. Only then will the objection be raised. If the fine is imposed on another ministry, there is therefore no question of a pocket pocket problem. However, there are also alternatives to fines. That's what I was talking about. Perhaps it is right to point out that the judge can do more than just impose a fine. Mr Ruers of the SP Group referred to environmental crimes. In doing so, it is quite conceivable that the State should be condemned to, for example, restoration in the original and legitimate situation. This can be done, for example, in the case of economic offences. It is also possible that the government will be ordered to pay an amount to an organisation that defends the interests of victims. There is therefore more possible than just a fine that the government ultimately pays to itself. In addition, a judge can, of course, also pronounce a suspended sentence, for example, make part of the fine conditional so that the government still has to pay it if it goes wrong again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-eerstekamer-4.u66	It would, of course, be a good by-catch if the budget of Security and Justice were to be increased a little bit with this bill. I have one more question. There was discussion about the effectiveness of fines. In doing so, I asked what we can learn from other systems, for example the penalty payment when deciding not to take a timely decision. Does it indeed lead to different government behaviour? Can Mr Segers say a little more about the experience we have gained from this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-eerstekamer-4.u67	In the latter case, you will ask me, Mrs. Strik. I find it difficult to answer that question. Perhaps Mr Recourt will be able to deal with this in the second term. Of course, we hope that paying a victim's fund or having to do a lot of work to repair natural damage will have a real effect and that it will really be examined in advance what is sensible action. As far as the penalty is concerned, you're asking me over. In my opinion, the desire for the Ministry of Security and Justice to be in a somewhat broader position financially is broader than just here in the Upper House. I say that in a neutral sense. Mrs Van Bijsterveld has asked what exactly is the purpose of punishing the government. In the classic sense, she then asks whether prevention and retaliation are also goals here. That's right. A fine, even if it doesn't hurt a government so much in the financial sense, is of course still very annoying for a cabinet. It affects the reliability of the government and this is also made clear by a scratch on the budget. This encourages the government to prevent future abuses and also makes it clear that no one is above the law in the Netherlands. This is, of course, a very important starting point, which has been confirmed on several occasions: the government is not above the law either. In the case of victims of criminal acts, the single conviction and the fact that a sentence is linked to it can be a remedy. That too is an important aspect of criminal law. The victims are, I think, not primarily about putting the government immediately before major financial problems. That's not the point. Eventually, they could be the victims of that. It's about justice for them, just to use that big word. All the goals that we attach to criminal prosecution ultimately serve the right itself as a means of recovery. Then civil law as an alternative to punishment; I am looking back in the direction of Mr Van Dijk. A number of groups have referred to civil law as an alternative to criminal prosecution and, in particular, to sanctions. Where appropriate, a civil-law road is open to the victims of public transactions. It was, and it's gonna stay that way. We can do that in addition to criminal prosecution. The civil road is designed to compensate for material and intangible damage. That civil-law trajectory is therefore not suitable for achieving full restoration of law, due to the unilateral focus on property law. That is what civil law is all about. A route is already open for individual property satisfaction, and that is not what the initiators want to do. We are dealing with a broad restoration of justice and criminal law is, in some cases, the right way forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-eerstekamer-4.u68	On its own, Mr Segers is certainly right about that. The point is that the court can determine by private law whether or not a government has acted lawfully, and that, as I mentioned earlier, it could also, on the basis of legitimate action, make a property correction. Isn't that the most important thing and isn't it unnecessary to see the road to criminal law as the only remedy? This can be a very important element for a government to establish. If the ordinary court says that there has been an unlawful act on a private law basis, does that mean that the public authorities have an indication and an obligation to act differently from what they have done so far? Doesn't that also send a very strong normative signal to the government?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-eerstekamer-4.u69	The answer is, of course, yes. This also assumes a normative effect. It's right next to each other, of course. The same applies to political accountability. If a minister makes a mistake and finds himself in a Chamber which is very critical of it, it also implies a normative effect. This also applies to civil law and criminal law. They are separate paths, which can eventually come together in standard enforcement and underline the standard. However, they are different ways of achieving this, which can very well be side by side. Criminal law simply serves a purpose other than political control of civil proceedings, namely the prevention of new offences and the reimbursement of criminal offences already committed. The standards that criminal law must maintain are of a different order than civil or administrative law should. It is the standards which we consider to be so serious that penalties may be necessary. That seems to me to be an addition to what I just said to Mr Engels. Three final questions remain open. First of all, Mrs Strik pointed out that decision-making often takes place on many different levels, after which she asked about the responsibility of, for example, an alderman in criminal proceedings and about accessory and other forms of participation. Mr Markuszower also asked for this. The reason why we are proposing the waiver of the immunity of legal persons governed by public law is precisely the fact that a criminal offence sometimes occurs at different levels and it is not real to write that fact on the account of one or more natural persons, although it is clear that the legal person as a whole is to blame. An alderman comes into a criminal danger zone only if he is involved in a criminal offence. Involvement as an accomplice or other forms of participation is already persecutable and punishable. The initiative proposal adds that, for example, an alderman can also be prosecuted as a factual director of the municipality's criminal act. He must have had access to or not to the offence and accepted the fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-eerstekamer-4.u70	Mrs. Strik, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-eerstekamer-4.u71	Does this mean that it is really a different kind of responsibility than the political responsibility in a situation where the alderman did not know exactly what was happening, so to speak, but should take responsibility? Does this really have to be a real purpose, a decision taken with that intention?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-eerstekamer-4.u72	The answer is yes. Political responsibility is wider, because it applies to everything that officials do on behalf of the executive. This really is a very individual responsibility. Mr Markuszower strongly asked whether, as a result of the initiative proposal, the State could be held liable for the offence of "death by fault" if persons admitted to the Netherlands by the IND or the COA committed attacks. That was the question. It has to be answered in the negative. The Netherlands does not know in advance whether persons admitted to the Netherlands are going to commit attacks. If an attack is committed by one of those persons, the State cannot be accused of having subsequently infringed an obligation to intervene. Finally, Mr Ruers' question about Zbo's and the various responsibilities remained. In any event, he asked about the meaning of the concept of a legal person governed by public law as used in the initiative proposal. He listed a number of entities. The answer to the question is that there is a legal person governed by public law if the law grants legal personality to an entity. A ZBO which has not been granted its own legal personality by law falls within the jurisdiction of the legal person State. Other legal persons such as public limited companies and private companies are therefore legal persons governed by private law. That was the answer to the last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-eerstekamer-4.u73	Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much for the opportunity to speak on behalf of the government in my capacity as advisor when considering the proposal for an initiative by the House of Representatives Recourt, Oskam and Segers. I have been asked questions by a number of spokesmen from various political groups. I answer this as an advisor, but first of all, on behalf of the government, I would like to express my appreciation for the great work that the initiators have put into this proposal, not only the current initiators, but certainly also their predecessors in recent years. I refer in particular to the very detailed statement of reply to your Chamber. I know from my own experience what a tour it is to draw up an initiative legislative proposal, put it into procedure and take care of the written and oral explanations. This applies once again now that the initiators are defending a proposal on which opinions have been totally and widely differing for years. The subject of the proposal for an own-initiative act has been a matter for more than 20 years now. It is therefore commendable that the initiators and all their predecessors have taken this difficult subject to the head. It'll force respect. The draft law has for years been giving thought to the idea of the immunity of legal persons governed by public law, their possible abolition and the position of legal persons governed by public law in criminal law. The great thing about this debate is that this is a very fundamental debate. That's what I want to say here. It is flown in principle, while very fundamental points have also been put on the table, especially in the Second Chamber, but certainly also today in this Upper Chamber. This does not mean that the cabinet does not comment on the initiative proposal, including its content. Before answering the questions put to me by Members of the various political groups, I would like to briefly reflect on the content of the proposal and, on behalf of the cabinet, share some considerations regarding the proposal with your Chamber. That is why Mr Engels has asked. The aim of the initiative proposal is to waive the criminal immunity of legal persons governed by public law and their directors. It is then a question of immunities recognised in the case-law of the Supreme Court. That's what they're saying. The legal person State shall enjoy full criminal immunity on the basis of the Volkel judgment. Local authorities grant limited criminal immunity for offences committed in carrying out an exclusive administrative task, the so-called second Pikmeer judgment. Where a legal person governed by public law enjoys immunity, the persons who have effectively led the prohibited conduct of that legal person governed by public law may not be prosecuted as such. This is the result of the first Pikmeer judgment. The initiators of this bill propose that the case law of the Supreme Court be lifted by law. As I mentioned in the letter I sent you in May of this year, the core consideration of the Cabinet is that the assessment of government action in our constitutional order should primarily take place in the procedures of political and administrative accountability laid down in the Constitution and other laws. I have also heard many Members of your Chamber express that subject and that principle here again. These democratically legitimised procedures are judged by much broader standards than in criminal proceedings. The Council of State also points out this in its opinion on the proposal. Standard confirmation and identification of government transactions are primarily objectives of democratic accountability. The risk of the legislative proposal is that the state-law system and the primacy of political and administrative accountability procedures may be undermined. The criminal accountability is seen by the initiators only as an addition, as an ultimatum remedium. However, there is indeed the risk of a sliding scale. This point has been raised by a number of your members in connection with the letter from the Cabinet. It is the sliding scale that occurs when criminal action is much more frequent or called for by means of a declaration and through complaints for failure to prosecute under Article 12 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. However we turn it or turn it around, we will have to take into account that if the immunity of legal persons governed by public law is lifted, many in society who now limit themselves to other means, such as administrative objections, will choose to use the declaration as a means of combating the public transactions they do not want. This means that there is a high risk that criminal and democratic accountability processes may be combined, thereby reducing these processes. This point is also raised by the Council of State and has been raised in today's debate. This also means that the fundamental question can be asked as to what you do when the State is addressed and you are deemed to be a minister, for example in the Chamber about the same fact that is already the subject of a report, or even criminal investigation. On behalf of the State, you could invoke your right to remain silent as a minister. These are practical questions to which we do not know the answer, because we do not know how to deal with them in this particular case. These are serious questions, because does the principle apply that you do not have to cooperate in your own conviction also for the State, if it is held criminally liable? Those questions were raised in both chambers. In addition to democratic accountability procedures, other corrective mechanisms exist. Decisions of an administrative body may be appealed to the Administrative Court. In the event of an unlawful State act, compensation may be claimed from civil courts. In principle, therefore, the proposal for an own-initiative act is not necessary in order to claim compensation. In the light of this, it is not clear what specific problem this legislative proposal solves. A risk is rather that the waiver of existing immunities will increase the number of cases before the courts to monitor the functioning of public authorities or individual public officials. The proposal for an own-initiative law could thus also encourage further legalisation. The proposal for an initiative could lead to an increase in risk-avoidance behaviour within public organisations, a point which has already been discussed in detail here and to which the initiators have responded extensively. This debate has not often been seen across borders. In the vast majority of our neighbouring countries, the state cannot be prosecuted. The prosecution of local authorities is possible in some of our neighbouring countries. However, in almost all cases this possibility is subject to restrictions. The reason will also be that, in the countries around us, the emphasis is on the criminal liability of natural persons. On these grounds, the cabinet, as well as in the debate in the Lower House, has serious reservations about the initiative legislative proposal. Mrs Van Bijsterveld and Mrs Strik asked what exactly is going on with the criminal fine. Who is to pay the fine and what is its meaning? In response to Mrs Van Bijsterveld's question, I can confirm that a fine will have to be paid by the department or administrative body in breach and that it will not therefore be paid from the general funds. I agree with the comments made by the initiators on this. If the State becomes enforceable, the fine relates to the budget of the department in which the offence was committed. That is no different from civil liability at the moment. In principle, the Ministry of Finance will not "match" the fine, as Mrs Strik put it. It further asked whether a criminal fine would have a learning effect. The experience we have with fines is that if the height is right, there is indeed a learning effect. The evaluation of the Penalty and Appeal Act in case of failure to decide in time also shows that the existence of acceleration instruments does indeed contribute to awareness within the government, in particular as regards the timeliness of decisions. If these fines also benefit my department's budget, that is a welcome fact in itself. On the other hand, however, it also means that the taxpayer contributes elsewhere to my budget which was not provided for in the original budget of the relevant administrative body. Mr Schouwenaar asked whether the bill could endanger the unity of the government. The initiators have a clear position on this, which is not endorsed by the cabinet. He also referred in his comment to the opinions of the then Member of Parliament, Mr Van der Steur, who also commented on this point. The government shares the views of the former Member of Parliament; that will not surprise Mr Schouwenaar. In the government's view, the proposed initiative could lead the prosecution of criminal offences committed within the State's departments under the responsibility of the Minister of Security and Justice. The Minister of Security and Justice could then be addressed by this fellow Minister at the decision taken by the Public Prosecutor. I would therefore like to endorse the remarks made by my predecessor in the debate on the initiative proposal in the House of Representatives. He literally said: I hope no one will blame me for not wanting me and my successors to be forced into such a position. Mr Schouwenaar also wondered whether, if political and administrative correction mechanisms were to fail, it would no longer be possible to improve these mechanisms. He pointed out that the public prosecutor could legally be regarded as an interested party in an administrative decision. The initiators have already responded to this. As Mr Schouwenaar knows, the public prosecutor is currently not an interested party in the administrative sphere, as it is normally the interested parties who are also directly involved in the contested decision. It may also be interest groups that oppose administrative decisions. Personally, I do not see any added value of the public prosecutor's commitment on this point. On the contrary, the question arises as to what this means for the relationship between administration and OM, in particular because the OM is actively working with the administrative bodies to agree on the enforcement of laws and regulations. The public prosecutor would then be in a very different position to that same administrative body. In general terms, I am not in favour of extending the tasks of the Public Prosecutor with a task which is not strictly criminal. Mrs Bikker asked me if there was any reason to improve the political and administrative accountability procedures. She said, "The criminal justice medicine can stay in the medicine cabinet." To be honest, I do not see any reason to take any further action in this area. As far as I know, political and administrative accountability procedures function properly. That's what the initiators assume. Mr Markuszower asked for a general response to the alternative proposal of Professor Van Sliedregt. My predecessor has already responded to this in the Lower House, by chance in response to a question from the member Van der Steur. In her pre-advisation for the Dutch Lawyers Association, Professor Van Sliedregt made a proposal concerning the waiver of the immunity of the State. The idea was that it should be possible to prosecute and condemn the State, but not to impose a penalty. The immunity from criminal proceedings would then be lifted, which would be maintained before the execution of the sentence. The proposers rejected this proposal in their reply. Their reasoning is that the imposition of a penalty may be useful in certain cases. I share the conclusion of the initiators that this proposal should not be accepted. The proposal is without prejudice to the cabinet's objections to the principle. In fact, the cabinet's objections also focus, and even in the first place, on the waiver of immunity from criminal proceedings. Moreover, I do not immediately see the usefulness of making the State persecutable if no sanctions can subsequently be imposed. In that case, it will only become a symbolic act to a large extent. The question then arises as to what this value added is. Finally, Mr Markuszower asked whether the State could be held liable for death by fault. The initiators also responded to this. I agree with their response. In my opinion, there is no causal link between the behaviour of such people, to which Mr Markuszower refers and the actions of the State. If the State knows that there are persons arriving in the Netherlands who may be a risk to the security of the State, the State takes measures there. In general, it cannot be said that every refugee arriving in the Netherlands is immediately equivalent to a jihadist terrorist. I repeat the conclusion of the Government's opinion: for all the reasons set out in the May letter this year, it has serious reservations about the legislative proposal. However, I would add that I enjoyed the debate, as a Member of the Chamber on the other side and here as a representative of the government, because it is not often that fundamental in our Parliament about such a fundamental point, the dividing line between criminal and state law, has been changed, thanks to the initiators. Whatever the outcome of this debate, this is a point of profit. We have had this debate with each other in full width and scope.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-eerstekamer-4.u74	And we haven't even finished this debate yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-eerstekamer-4.u75	Can you check it out?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-eerstekamer-4.u76	That too!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-eerstekamer-4.u77	We've come to the second term of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-eerstekamer-4.u78	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the initiators for the very comprehensive and careful answer both to the questions of principle and to the practical questions which have been discussed in detail here. So that also gave rise to a very interesting debate. I would also like to thank the Minister for his advice on the legislative proposal. During the afternoon, a lot of estimates, appreciations and expectations were expressed about the functioning of this bill, if it were to be made law. Among other things, we discussed the confidence of the citizens, the effectiveness of the proposal, its possible counter-effect, its Juridification, the sliding scale and so on. I do not want to go into these assessments now; in the second period I will confine myself to a number of specific matters. To this end, I have highlighted three points: democratic accountability, the very nature of the government and a derivative of what I myself have referred to as a 'unit of the Crown'. The first is the coincidence with democratic accountability. If I understand correctly, the initiators said in their reply that democratic accountability is primary and always ahead. My question is what the initiators mean by that in particular. If the proposal is made law, there are still two possibilities. So what does it mean that one option is ahead of the other? On the part of the initiators, I understand that democratic accountability and staff-law procedures go hand in hand very well. In view of the way in which the answer was received, I suspect that it was mainly a situation in which a democratic accountability process took place and there is only a threat of criminal prosecution. One of the initiators pointed out that he had not experienced that someone in such a democratic accountability process because of the threat of criminal prosecution had not shown the back of his tongue. What if a criminal procedure has been initiated and there is also a debate in the political arena? So how do these two possibilities relate to each other? In particular, the issue of public access is dealt with. In a democratic process you have to justify yourself, but during such a criminal justice process that can of course also work against you in a certain way. This is linked to the question whether the initiators can imagine that the State also invokes the right to remain silent in proceedings. If not, what does that mean for the equality between citizens and government in this respect? I would like another answer to those questions. Then I come to the very nature of the government. The debate also covered the relationship between criminal law and public policy. Of course, there's a thin line between that. To what extent can criminal law intervene in the policy of the government? I would like to ask the following question. Suppose the government has a supervisory function, e.g. building and housing supervision, and checks are carried out on a random basis. Suppose something goes wrong in a situation where this particular case has slipped through the meshes of the sample. What does that mean for a possible criminal prosecution? Does this mean that the government can be prosecuted or not? Does this mean that the exception applies here or not? I'm very curious about that. You can sometimes see that there will be random checks. We also discussed the possible trend that citizens would expect that the government would indeed have to be prosecuted. At the same time, I detect a slightly different trend. I am very curious about the reaction of the initiators to this. We have recently witnessed a very tragic incident in which a citizen was killed. I refer to the death of Mr Henriquez. Following that incident, the Minister suggested that there should perhaps be a separate procedure in the case of police violence, so that a policeman or woman, in the event of something going wrong, is not just one-two-three for assault or manslaughter. In other words, because of the very nature of the police action, where violence must be used. If something goes wrong, you shouldn't prosecute a policeman or a woman directly as an ordinary citizen. Can the initiators comment on this? I am also very interested in the Minister's response to this, partly in the light of this bill. The Minister has made it very clear that he, the cabinet, has objections to this bill. Could the Minister indicate more positively what, in his view, is the ratio of the state's current immunity? Why does that immunity exist and why is it good to keep it the way it is? I am very curious about the reaction of the initiators and the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-eerstekamer-4.u79	Mr. Chairman. On behalf of my group, I would like to express my sincere thanks to the initiators for the very detailed and passionate way in which they have defended their proposal. Of course, I would also like to thank the Minister for a very interesting speech, as far as my group is concerned, but he will understand that. Should the government be made a criminal offence? I believe that Mr Recourt opened that question. That question sums it up quite nicely. I'm gonna walk by a few things that changed in the debate. In the interrupting debate, we have spoken a number of times about the element of confidence. Mr Schouwenaar also touched on the image of the empty chair a number of times. I sum up as follows: for trust in the government, the presence of an empty chair in the criminal proceedings is precisely fudged, and if the government is prosecuted, any outcome will be accepted. That's how the initiators are in it. Unfortunately, I have to say, my group continues to believe that this is an understatement of the pattern of social expectation. We now have a social environment in which citizens react much more assertively and much more quickly to all kinds of developments involving government and politics. I would add that I too remain convinced that the current system of political responsibility is a system in which the government may have to do self-reflection and self-correction through the sanction of confidence. Another comment to that element is that the public authorities not only have a special legal form, which would be a not too clear distinction to allow immunity, but also, above all, has a special public task. That is precisely the crux of the story why criminal immunity plays a role.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-eerstekamer-4.u80	Does Mr Engels perhaps agree with me that criminal accountability, alongside political and administrative accountability, adds anything? Is it not the case that it has added value, which gives citizens more confidence in the rule of law? Does Mr Engels see that or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-eerstekamer-4.u81	No, I don't see that at all. That would have been one of my next comments, because I also exchanged it with the initiators, but I would like to bring it up now. We have a state-law instrument in terms of self-reflection, self-correction, accountability and liability. We have an administrative system, in which citizens also play a role. And we have the private law system, in which citizens can also prove the illegality of public transactions. So I really cannot see that a criminal law approach could play a substantial role in this, as the initiators have argued. On the contrary, I have shown in my interruptions that, in my view, this will work counter-productively. I'm saying that again. It is in itself a sympathetic idea that the government should not stand above citizens and above the law, which is not the case, and that this should lead to equal treatment in criminal proceedings, but because of the special position of the government, this cannot be the case. I follow the Council of State and, in fact, the Minister. The answer to Mr Ruers' question is, then, no. I see what he means, but I don't follow. I'll come back to the pressure on prosecution policy. The initiators assume that the community will accept it as a state's attorney who can explain that he's not prosecuting. On that point, too, I have a different pattern of expectations. If you have to explain something to society with a legal impact, then the persuasiveness of it has declined in recent years. That's only seen as a way to get rid of something. We see on banners everywhere nowadays that people want to hear the truth. The legal truth is neither seen nor accepted. So I have much less expectations of that. For the sake of time, I leave a number of comments aside. I would like to say a few words about the risk of cramping. I am not convinced by any of the four factors mentioned by Mr Segers. I also agree with the Minister that there will be pressure on the Crown's unity, but I will leave it at that. I would like to make one more comment on a central element which was mentioned by the initiators and which is also in line with Mr Ruers' question. Because there would be a hole that needs to be filled. This has to do with what Mr Recourt said, namely that the government cannot get away with doing something that is criminal. Mr Segers has said that justice is a right and that it is not just if we make a distinction between the criminal proceedings of citizens and of the public authorities. You will have noticed by now that my group and I are different in that respect. This has to do with the special role and position of the government. The right offers all kinds of figures, instruments and structures for citizens and society to hold the government accountable. This is possible within the government, in politics, through administrative law and through private law, as I have just said. Justice in law is also a much broader principle of law than just the element of sanctioning, which Mr Segers has put quite a lot of emphasis on. It is not just a question of society's need for retribution and satisfaction. No, society wants to feel that the state acts as a rule of law in accordance with the rules of law and that the rule of law itself, that is immanent, has the tools to do something with it if it does not. The picture was sketched that the government would be above the law, but it is not. That is not possible, because there would be no rule of law. In my view, criminal law is not the exclusive method of preventing government offences. Other instruments may also force the government to do so, if it did not do so by itself, which I do believe.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-eerstekamer-4.u82	I can hear Mr Engels saying something that strikes me. If it is now the case that the government has a unique role, for example because the law stipulates that the government exercises control, which no one else can do, and that the government makes a mistake and that it is criminally guilty death. What possibility would a citizen have of getting that for the criminal court if this bill were not passed? Now, in that case, you can't go anywhere to get the State in court and have it prosecuted. That gap is filled with this bill anyway. Mr. Engels isn't filling him up. He just leaves the civilian in the cold.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-eerstekamer-4.u83	I could go a long way in Mr Ruers' speech. I would say that this gap exists only on the assumption that the government should actually be treated in the same way as a citizen. We disagree on that. I don't think that's true. This also means that, however unfortunate it would be if the government were responsible or guilty of the death of a citizen, we would have enough of the existing instruments to ensure that this does not become a habit of the government. Mr Ruers should not blame me for saying that this speech is not intended to leave citizens in the cold. I am trying to make an argument, which is mainly based on state law, which is also in line with the system. So I am sorry that Mr Ruers made that last remark, but I say: sand on it. That is what Mr Ruers is doing, and that is a good thing for me. I'd like to mark that this is a special moment. I've been in the Chamber for over ten years, and I've rarely been in line with a Minister of Justice. I've dealt with this minister once before. There will be other subjects on which there will be intense discussions, but we now have a point on which we are entirely in agreement. I cannot fail to express this with joy. Like my group, I am convinced that we have a primary responsibility in our democratic rule of law through political responsibility. The Council of State has also pointed this out. We therefore have the same serious reservations as the Minister. In that sense, I would like to be transparent about this. I do not have any further questions to ask that I propose to my group to vote against this bill. I'm a little early on with that, but I don't want to use misty formulas, and you'll know exactly what you're up to. If it turns out next week that my group voted in favour of the proposal, you will know who suffered a serious defeat within the group. That'll be me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-eerstekamer-4.u84	Mr. Chairman. I thank the initiators for their clear and thorough answers to our questions. The examples given by the initiators in this debate concerning the relationship and interaction between political accountability on the one hand and criminal prosecution and trial on the other are convincing to me. I am referring in particular to the case of Founding Vecht and the case of the fireworks disaster in Enschede. Our question concerning the cardigan-pocket argument has also been answered with satisfaction. In particular, the examples given of condemnation of recovery in the original state, for example in environmental matters, and of condemnation of a contribution to a victim fund illustrate that the cardigan-pocket argument certainly does not always apply. The initiators have explained that they have no fundamental problems with punishing the government, because it is about serving the feeling of justice and because the right as a means of restoring justice sometimes requires the imposition of a penalty on the government. For the PvdA Group, the strength of this bill lies in the fact that not only civil servants can be dealt with by criminal law, but also, above all, the public legal person for which the official works. It is precisely in cases where collective action is involved, as we have seen in the Otapan case for example, that the PvdA Group considers this to be very important. In view of the above, I will advise my group to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-eerstekamer-4.u85	Mr. Chairman. We have talked about the statement that the government addresses people, citizens, residents with criminal law if there are criminal offences and that the government itself should be able to be prosecuted. A criminal offence is a criminal offence. There has been talk of "the empty chair" and of "the dancing springing out." On the other hand, my group says that some of this liability is already there. Individual officers can be treated criminally, so the chair is not empty. For compensation there is civil law, so even then the seat is occupied. I said it in the first place: of course there is the democratic way, but it is in another room, but it is in the same building. As far as I know, there's not the same judge for everything. Indeed, it is attractive to say that the government should not evade the administration of justice, but that does not mean that there should be the same judge for everything and everyone in the same case. We have juvenile justice and military criminal justice. For the government, there's a separate judge. I think that in practice that judge, that democratic judge, has shown that he is not tender. As far as I am aware, the current situation does not give rise to any serious problems. There are sometimes serious problems with the government that we read daily in the newspapers, but not on this particular subject. The authors, too, say that on pages 23 and 25 of the reply, I believe that these are not very large numbers. In that respect, you could also say that there is no problem and therefore no need for this law. I must compliment the petitioners. In the sphere of criminal law, they have stood as good lawyers for their cause. They're holding on, persevering. This means that two systems come to exist side by side. We agree on that, but immediately we separate our paths again. I believe that this is likely to pose major risks to our existing system. The proposers say that they can very well exist side by side and that they even complement each other: one benefit from the other. We do not share that expectation. They affect each other. Professor Van Bijsterveld has mentioned a whole series of examples of this. In that respect, there is not much reason for optimism. A criminal sentence may also be disappointing. That's not something everyone always agrees with. We all know the discussions about the trust that the judiciary, in particular criminal law, enjoys in society and whether there is perhaps a gap that needs to be addressed. In order to avoid these risks, we think that there should be a choice. We don't choose criminal law. Criminal law tends to sit in the seat of the board. In the case of acquittal or dismissal of legal proceedings, there remains a stain, which is not conducive to confidence. A judgment may also have an impact on a much wider area and undermine the authority of the government in that large area, which in itself has nothing to do with the offence itself. We believe that the political and administrative accountability mechanisms have proved themselves. As examples I would like to mention Volendam, Enschede and Schiphol. I have the perception that the government has gone very deeply into this and has had to spend a lot of money, much more than a fine could ever have been, in order to restore the case. At Schiphol two ministers and a mayor have resigned, in Volendam an entire college and in Enschede one or two aldermen. That has been very strong, and that has been clear to everyone. I don't see why it would have lost faith in that. The existing system covers the whole area, gives much more scope for action and accelerates it. The most important thing is that the government itself regulates its own affairs and has its own self-correcting ability, without the need for an outsider in criminal law. The authors expect, as I understand from their reply, that all this will end well. It can go sis, it can go this way, but the proposers rely on a happy ending. I admire their optimism, but don't share it. In this respect, I would like to repeat Professor Engels the following. By the way, everyone is appealing to professors tonight. I'm not a professor myself, so I feel a little small. Mrs. Van Sliedregt has been here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-eerstekamer-4.u86	In the meantime, do you think about your time, Mr Schouwenaar?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-eerstekamer-4.u87	I thought we could still do this, Mr. Chairman. Just a little bit more. Professor Engels said that the proposers probably underestimate the complexity of people's trust in government, and sometimes vice versa. It can go well, as the proposers expect, but it can also go wrong. That is why I have a preference for the existing situation. If necessary, this can be improved if requested on parts, but it is not a criminal trial in itself. It's about recovery. For that, the democratic system is the best. I wish Professor English strength in his group. I hope that we will come here next week with a similar result.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-eerstekamer-4.u88	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to thank the authors and the ministers for their comprehensive reply. The initiators have made it very clear what the fundamental point is. To sum up, if the government commits a serious criminal offence and offers too little comfort to the democratic accountability process, the criminal court must be able to judge that crime. I hear from the opponents the sound that it is or-or, as if the democratic accountability process would never offer too little comfort. I think that the initiators have made it very clear that it is "in addition to" and not so much that it excludes one another. The aim is clearly to establish a standard and to set an example, but I particularly point out that the government must learn from it. It must have a learning effect, because we want to prevent the government from committing such offences or crimes again. I am therefore also pleased to hear from the Minister that the issuing of fines can indeed have an effect and affect behaviour in relation to the laws she has to comply with. A lot of questions have been asked about how it's gonna work out. The initiators also addressed this issue. They indicate quite easily that it will usually be temporary. The democratic accountability process will usually proceed quickly and criminal prosecution will follow. However, it cannot be ruled out that the processes will indeed exist side by side and can influence each other. In this respect, I would like to endorse Mrs Van Bijsterveld's question, particularly as regards the openness of the Minister. Minister Steurs said, do you have to cooperate in your own conviction?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-eerstekamer-4.u89	Minister Van der Steur.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-eerstekamer-4.u90	Sorry, excuse me. Ruers, Van der Steur, things got a little messed up. So Minister Van der Steur said: do you have to cooperate in your own condemnation or is it at the expense of the openness you want the Minister to exercise in a democratic accountability process? I would ask the initiators to comment on that point. Furthermore, I sometimes notice that the initiators often point out to the objections that not much changes because we already know it. However, the waiver of immunity is a major change. There are just a number of uncertainties that we will have to live with when we decide to proceed with this. In any case, my group is prepared to do so. At least I am. So was my group before the debate. I will certainly discuss it with the group after this debate. In particular, we will talk about the point that Mrs Beuving also mentioned: is it going to lead to risk-avoidance behaviour; what is it going to mean for individual officials? I am therefore convinced of the argument that this official may have been helped by the fact that the legal person as a whole can be prosecuted, which means that it has to lean less heavily on individual behaviour. This is particularly true because decision-making processes in a government are diffuse and complex and it is not real to make one official pay or answer for it. My group is still positive. We hope that this will also apply to a majority of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-eerstekamer-4.u91	Mr. Chairman. It has been remembered more often today: this bill has a long history. The advantage of this is that over the years all the pros and cons have been discussed to a large extent. Goethe said it so nicely: "Everything has been invented before, it's only the art to think about it again." Pretty good, huh? The arguments in favour of this bill have today been brought to the attention of the proposers in a clear and certainly pleasing manner. To respect the principle of equality and to honour the exemplary role of the public authorities are two important, but not the only, benchmarks for the proposers. There are a number of counter-arguments or risks. There has been a lot of deception in this debate. I mention some of those risks or counter-arguments that weigh heavily on us. The very nature of the government, which has a public function, means that the government must not be placed in a position to align itself with legal persons governed by private law, at least not in the view of my group. In addition, there are administrative implications. There may be tension between political and criminal control. The primacy of politics could be compromised. Criminal prosecution can frustrate the democratic accountability process. Nor is it the case that the removal of criminal immunity will automatically lead to the strengthening of the authority of the government, especially as a judge and legislator come to different judgements. Nor is it imaginable that this bill will lead to many attempts to bring a criminal case against the government. There are individuals and organisations in our country who are certainly not reluctant to file claims against the government. This can lead to dive behaviour within the government or to an even greater rage of gathering in paraphrases. And once there's a criminal case against the government, it doesn't matter how it ends: from the moment that such a criminal case hangs over your head, as a driver, you're a drunken game and your position has become untenable, even though you may not end up getting blameless. To a large extent, a compensation obligation can also be imposed by means of civil law. So even without this bill, the citizen is not empty-handed in my view. The SGP Group is trying to weigh all the pros and cons fairly against each other. This means that it does not feel the urge at present to support this bill in this form. I sincerely regret this for the proposers and for their predecessors.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-eerstekamer-4.u92	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the authors and our adviser, the Minister of Justice, for their reply. In particular, the proposers have done so in a passionate and nuanced manner. That's nice. We have discussed questions of principle here today, which were about the very nature of the government. As far as the Christian Union Group is concerned, the authors have rightly pointed out that for the local authorities the question of principle has already been answered by the law of 1976 and certainly also by the interpretation in the Pikmeer judgments: a large part of the criminal immunity no longer exists de facto. I even believe that in one of the previous rounds I read this conclusion in the CDA's written input. My group shares that conclusion. With regard to the immunity of the State, we are faced with another, even more complex argument and balance of interests. In doing so, the separation of powers, its own circle, the very nature of the government and the hierarchy between persecuted and persecutor form an important pillar. It's hard to figure out how these things are going to relate to each other. The applicants rightly note that the behaviour of legal persons governed by public law is already assessed in administrative law as such. Mr Ruers, I think, has made it quite clear that this bill can be a positive addition, for example, as regards the size of the government, the far-reaching autonomys and the scope and scope of the Zbos, precisely because we sometimes look at the democratic accountability process with doubts, to sum it up in the light of the time. The Group of the Christian Union shares this feeling with the proposers and would also like to see the impression that the government is never hiding or that the law can be put aside because this criminal immunity exists. That's what drives trust. At the same time, the public's confidence in government and the culture there is in terms of public administration is our greatest difficulty with this proposal. Is it not more supportive of this confidence that the current democratic processes are properly and properly implemented? And doesn't this bill lead too much to a culture of mistrust? I invite the proposers once more to make an extreme effort to push my group a little further on this point. As far as culture in the civil service is concerned, they have convinced my group. They have clearly shown that, for example, an official will have to act as punctually and adequately as possible for the political functioning of his director, otherwise he will cause problems for his driver. That's how it works now. Anyway, for the public, mostly my neighbor in the benches here says that "the vox populi" is still a step in that direction. My group has serious doubts on this point. The Christian Union Group has also heard a number of examples this evening with which the proposers have convincingly shown that the legislative proposal has added value. That's how Founding Fight and the Otapan passed by. At the same time, these are also exceptions and examples that come back. It is therefore a limited supplement, as we see it. I started my contribution with the adage "the king can do no wrong." Public authority has changed in nature by now, fortunately, but, and the desire for transparency, recovery and justice lives wide. The proposers have today firmly opposed to presenting their own initiative law in this respect as a complement. At the same time, the impact is primarily a matter of expectations and uncertainties. My group found this complicated when we started this debate. Unfortunately, that hasn't changed. We will therefore consider the final outcome in the next week. Anyway, the proposers have another chance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-eerstekamer-4.u93	Madam President. First of all, I would like to thank the authors and the Minister for their contributions and their comments. It has been a nice debate so far. I hope it stays that way. I think so. It was very educational. I'll make a few comments. Firstly, I noticed that Mr Recourt referred to the European Court at the very beginning of his reply. I thought that was perfectly right. I note that the parties who have so far opposed this bill remain very far away from the European Court of Justice. Nothing is said about it, while judgments of the Court are directly applicable in our legal system. I often notice that in our country there are a number of lawyers who are not really aware that we have to take into account and apply the rulings of the European Court of Justice. If you don't apply it, then this bill is very much needed. I invite D66 and the VVD to respond. Because they go around so nicely that I think: something is obviously going on. I do not think they dare to take up the debate on that point. Secondly, it's not either-or, but and-and. That is how Mrs Strik put it together, and I agree with that. That's exactly why it goes here. It's a supplement. It's an improvement. It is not a miracle cure for everything, but criminal law is needed for special, serious situations. This will require the waiver of immunity. We therefore believe that if that happens, this bill will strengthen citizens' confidence in the democratic legal system. We're very much in favour of that. So it has added value. In addition, people think very easily: if the state goes criminally, we will solve it by another route. I also noticed this in the reaction of the VVD group. I don't think that's possible. This has also been proven by the practice of the last 15 years. There are situations where criminal law is needed to bring serious offences committed by the State into the criminal justice system. You don't solve that with a political assessment or with administrative law. You just need criminal justice for that. There are situations in which the State is failing, even now. I know that there are legal provisions that the State should implement but where the State leaves large gaps, for all kinds of reasons including a retreating or cutting back government. Then it is good that the criminal court looks at it, where necessary and in special cases. So I think this is a very good legislative proposal. I say this without resentment to Mr Engels. I will give my group serious consideration to voting in favour of this bill. If next week turns out I didn't make it, I've suffered a serious defeat. But I don't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-eerstekamer-4.u94	The proposers will now have the floor. Can you answer immediately or would you like to talk for a moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-eerstekamer-4.u95	Do you have five minutes, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-eerstekamer-4.u96	I'm suspending until 8:35. That's seven minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-eerstekamer-4.u97	Mr. Chairman. I would once again like to thank the members of the First Chamber for their input in terms of content. It's nice to debate here. I forgot in the first term to thank you for the official support we have received in this very long period. This is what I am doing. That support was very good. I will first answer a number of specific questions and then close very briefly in general. There were specific questions from Mrs Van Bijsterveld in particular, but also from Mrs Strik. What about that order of democratic accountability for criminal accountability? It is indeed our preference and also the preference of this House to give democratic accountability priority. How do you do that? In the first instance, the practice will do so, because criminal law takes time because of research, hearing and so on. You also arrange it, and that is much more practical, by including in the designation of criminal prosecution that this is an important element for the question of whether to prosecute and, if so, when to prosecute. This also allows you to steer administratively: first political accountability and then criminal accountability. What about the coincidence? It is clear that the right to remain silent also applies to a minister when that minister has to answer to the criminal court in person. I have already replied in detail in the first period that at least history teaches us that this is not the issue. These crimes have been in existence for some 200 years. Furthermore, due to the time span of criminal law and the designation of the OM, it is unlikely that the minister will be imprisoned in these two proceedings at about the same time. I'm not gonna assume that. With municipalities it is still possible that you start with political accountability and then get criminal accountability, on which the city council wants to come back again. That could be national, too. I don't think it's wrong to reflect on that at all. How does criminal law affect government policy? We don't know. Above all, we hope positively. Let me give you the example of Founding Fight again. I assume that many municipalities will now act much more strictly on dangerous traffic situations than if this had not happened. I have no reason to think there will be a negative effect. This negative effect should then be the cramping of officials and executives. My colleague has responded extensively to this, with four or five arguments. Is a random check sufficient? If there's anything in between, is that criminally persecutable? If that random check is a proper and generally acceptable method of checking, then you cannot make a criminal accusation at the moment when something terrible has happened between those samples. Then you have fulfilled your obligation as a government and there is no question of culpability. It must of course be an acceptable sample. If you limit yourself to once where a hundred times is acceptable, it is of course a different story. But if that sample is acceptable, there's no problem. Finally, I come to the separate procedure for the police. I didn't really understand that question. In any case, I cannot answer that on behalf of the three of us, because I suspect that our parties are not entirely right about that. I do not even know exactly what she thinks of my own group. I would advise my group to give the police the status of suspects, just to protect them. However, it is something else, because it is an individual police officer who may be prosecuted, not the police organisation as a whole. I hope that I have answered enough. I can't get much further. With regard to Mr Engels' group, if Mr Engels agrees with the Minister of Justice for the first time in 10 years, there must be something wrong. It seems to me to be an easy group meeting. For the rest, I'd like to thank him. It would be a repetition of moves to go further into it. I will come back to it briefly at the end. This also applies to the other speakers, in so far as they have not asked any specific questions, such as Mrs Beuving, for example. Mr Schouwenaar said: there are not many things, so what is the problem? We do not share that view. There may also be a problem in a limited number of cases. I would like to stress once again the fundamental aspect and the fact that, in particular, the more visible issues can give people the idea that the government has good talk: the government takes them the measure, but not itself. I understand from Mrs Bikker that she has become convinced about the individual civil servant, but that she still has questions about what is generally going on with the administration should this bill be adopted. Are we going to have a claim culture or are we going to go backwards? I don't think so. First of all, there are few things to expect. Of course, we can only look at the past, but I do not expect the number to grow exponentially. Once or twice, it will certainly be on the agenda. But I think the disappointment that the government does not have to go to court in major cases where people have died, while others have to, is a bigger problem for the population than prosecuting the same government. In general, trust in the court in the Netherlands is very high. Year after year research shows that the judge is about the most trusted official in the Netherlands, unlike the politician. I fully agree with Mr Ruers that the European Court of Justice is asking more of us than we are currently giving. This is particularly true of the cases in which individual actions by different officials do not lead to individual criminal charges, but the collective of action does. Then we have no answer, and we have to do so, especially in view of Article 2 of the ECHR. This law will solve that. The Minister said: almost nowhere in Europe is the government itself punishable. We've seen a list come along that's been molded on. Many countries have not given any reasons at all. In the case of a considerable number of other countries, the third question is whether this legislation is being prepared and the answer is yes. Apparently, these countries have also taken note of the debates taking place at the European Court of Justice. Mr Van Dijk quoted Goethe. I had to think about Kant. Kant asks: what is really value-driven action? That is the action you can distinguish from the action you like to do anyway, because it suits you. It's the act you prefer not to do yourself, but which you rationally-principally think is necessary. I would also like to wish the SGP Group in its deliberations that genuine value-driven action should be taken. This brings me to the end of the answer to the individual questions. I have a few comments to make. There are uncertainties when this bill is passed. Of course, we can't look into the future. We can only look in the past. I note, then, that 200 years ago, individual criminal offences were in any case punishable. As far as that was discussed then, I am almost certain that the arguments were that it was a slippery slope and that the ministers would have to answer for themselves endlessly. History has shown that it happened once in those 200 years, and then a long time ago. Moreover, I always find "hilling plane" arguments difficult, because looking in the glass ball is difficult. We just don't know how it goes. However, we can look back and in the past it appears that the possible huge increase in requests and the practice of prosecuting government officials for the criminal justice system has in any case been huge. There are pros and cons to our proposal. However, we are convinced that this is the best proposal if you are in favour of criminal prosecution of the government. We also find support for this in science. Ultimately, the ultimate question is: do you think that administrative accountability is always sufficient if very serious behaviour by the government has been carried out? Our answer is with conviction: no, that is not enough. At these times, the government cannot stand above the law and must also answer to the criminal court.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-eerstekamer-4.u98	Thank you very much, Mr Recourt. I understand that Mr Oskam and Mr Segers will no longer speak. That is why I am now giving the floor to the Minister for Security and Justice, who I can already see jumping up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-eerstekamer-4.u99	Mr. Chairman. The reason I jumped up is because of the pleasure that I have had this debate this evening. In any case, the debate and the legislative proposal have already written parliamentary history, to which I expect a long time to refer in the literature, whatever the outcome of the debate. I have also said it in my first term, but I would like to repeat it now: I am very grateful to the initiators for this and I would also like to thank them for the kind words about the official support that has been given to them in recent years. It is in line with the way in which we deal with each other that in my department there is always official support available for complex legislative proposals. I very much appreciate that this has been appreciated by the initiators. The serious reservations I expressed in my letter of May and tonight are based on the expectation that the law will also be written in detail if this bill were to be adopted, but on its implementation. One of the points will be the converging, on which much has been said. Mr Recourt has also just spoken a number of wise words about this. He rightly said about the prosecution that you can choose to set conditions in an indication. The only thing I would like to say in an advisory capacity is that, of course, the coincidence is not only determined by the prosecution, but that the declaration will determine whether there is a coincidence between parliamentary control and criminal proceedings. From the moment that a report has been filed, someone must take into account that criminal proceedings can be followed. From that moment on, a person will be able to invoke his or her right to remain silent. In the first term, I also said that if the State is prosecuted, the question is whether the representatives of the State deserve that same right of silence. This could be a problem with parliamentary control because of the right of silence which belongs to all suspects. Then it is also a question of whether it is realistic to expect that there will be little business. The number of cases is not likely to be that high, but what is unlikely to be low is the number of declarations. This will then become an instrument, in addition to administrative law and any civil liability of the government and of administrative bodies, that you can use and will therefore use to achieve your goal. I think it is fair that the initiators have indicated that there are uncertainties on this issue about this bill, that there are pros and cons, but that the arguments for them have given the key to putting the bill on the table here. I really appreciate that. Mrs Van Bijsterveld specifically asked what the ratio of immunity is. The decisions of the Supreme Court have dealt with them quite extensively. One thing is certain: this ratio is based on the idea that the State is not the same as a natural person... the State has other tasks and powers than natural persons... and on the idea that there is legal protection against government transactions in the form of administrative and civil law. At the same time, I believe that criminal immunity means that democratic control has the primacy. As Mr Schouwenaar said, the debate can thus take place freely in the Gremia, in the Municipal Councils, in the Provincial States or in the Parliament, because there are no other aspects that need to be taken into account. The Supreme Court agrees with that. This means that the essence of the debate is as follows: if this bill is adopted, what consequences can we expect and foresee? Mrs Van Bijsterveld also asked about the government's thoughts on the use of police violence. I understand that question in this way that Mrs Van Bijsterveld says that this actually gives a special position in criminal law. Is that similar to what's happening here? I think that Mr Recourt quite rightly pointed out that the government has the monopoly of violence and that it is strange that someone who uses this monopoly of violence should be treated in our criminal law in the same way as someone who clearly does not have that monopoly of violence, but decides to hit someone with a lead pipe on his head. It can't be that those two persons are treated in the same way by our criminal law, at least that's what I feel, because one does so in the rightful exercise of his ministry, as it used to be so beautiful, and the other does so as part of a possible criminal activity. Professor Engels has expressed great joy at the fact that the cabinet and the group of D66 are in line. I would like to express that joy. As far as I am concerned, I would also like to say that this tastes more like it. I invite the D66 Group to show the same enthusiasm in other debates, for example on my budget, as has happened today. That gives us a very warm feeling and a great deal of confidence in the debates that we are going to have in this house in the near future. I very much appreciate the comments made by Mrs Beuving, who has clearly reached a different conclusion than the cabinet has indicated. Mrs Strik said that the right to remain silent is a jumping point. How's that gonna work in practice? So we do not know how this is going to work, but it is one of the concerns of the cabinet that this could cause problems for democratic control. I say it carefully, because Mr Recourt has rightly said that you do not know how it is going. However, on the basis of facts and experience, you can see that this will be one of the challenges of the future. Mrs Bikker indicated very nicely that she was in the balancing wrestling. I understand that very well. She said that she assumes that the bill, if adopted, will be a limited supplement. She has heard this in the words of the initiators. The cabinet agrees with this, but of course the question is what are the consequences of this limited supplement, which may be positive. That is precisely why the cabinet has taken the position it has taken. What are the disadvantages of this limited supplement, which may be positive? That is what we are very concerned about. I say to Mr Ruers that the European Court of Justice has delivered a ruling which is not yet established that it is universally accepted. There are no further procedures whereby individual Member States have been condemned for not providing for legislation in this way. There is not yet a Member State which has subsequently waived the immunity of the State. Mr President, this leads me once again, on behalf of the cabinet, to express my gratitude and appreciation to the initiators and to the members of your Chamber for the debate. Thank you very much for the opportunity to bring forward the cabinet position here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-eerstekamer-4.u100	Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? I note that this is the case. Then I suggest we vote on the bill next Tuesday.
