ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-11.u1	I give the floor to Mrs Dijkstra of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-11.u2	Mr. Chairman. The debate we were going to have tonight, the AO on the problems of paying out the pgbs, has been withdrawn at the last minute. That is, let me put it first, especially very annoying for all the pgb-holders who have just come to The Hague tonight to follow this debate. Since this general discussion this evening is not going to take place, I would like to make the same request I made yesterday, namely to hold a plenary debate on the payment of the pgbs next week or the following week. The answers to the questions about Monday's letter in turn raise new questions, for example: how much value should we attach to a sample of 300 declarations, and how robust is the payout regime actually structural? That's what I want from the Secretary of State. As a committee, we can take the opportunity to clarify today's many new information, this morning's reports on the findings of the General Court and on the audits that have been received just before the AA starts. This is what we, as a committee, are going to take care of. In any case, my request is to hold a plenary debate next week or the following week.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-11.u3	And is that in the presence of the U.S. Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-11.u4	As far as I'm concerned, in the presence of the U.S. Secretary of State. The Secretary of State for SZW would also be present at the AO. I will leave it to my fellow Members to decide what wishes they wish to have in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-11.u5	I put the request to the Chamber for a debate next week on the payment of pgbs. I also ask Members to decide which of the directors or directors they want to see present; at least the Secretary of State of the United States of America.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-11.u6	Support for the request. On second thought, the proposal made by Mrs Dijkstra yesterday was a good one. She proposed not to hold the consultation tonight, because there are many documents, especially technical ones, and then it would be wise to be able to properly assess their care. I support the request for a plenary debate with the U.S. Secretary of State. The Secretary of State for SZW may not be necessary, but I don't care. The debate may take place next week or the following week; I shall leave it to the author to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-11.u7	Support for the request. It's okay next week or in two weeks; I'll take a look at what the majority want. It seems to me appropriate for both State Secretarys to be present, as was also proposed for the AA.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-11.u8	We have been talking for a long time about solutions to the payout problems at the Social Insurance Bank. If this delay brings a solution, I am very much inclined to support it. I would like further information on the contract of silence that we have heard several times today. I'd like to know if the U.S. Department was aware of this. I asked Parliament questions about this, which were answered Monday night. However, this question has not been answered. Perhaps colleagues also have other questions. I suggest that we take stock of the questions through the committee. So let's get everything on the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-11.u9	It is very non-chic to cancel the general consultation at the very last moment. If there is a plenary debate next week or the following week, GroenLinks will support this. As far as the presence of the executives is concerned, I also believe that we have received today's inquiry from the General Court of Auditors. It is particularly important for us now to know what happened to the responsibility of the Ministry of Social Affairs. What did the Secretary of State know at what time? I would like to receive a timeline which states exactly what the Secretary of State for Social Affairs knew at what point and what actions she has taken or has not taken at what point. I think it is important to add this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-11.u10	I'd also like to have the opportunity to ask extra questions. I very much agree with having a debate next week or the following week. I would just like to say that I am pleased that these people have taken the trouble to come here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-11.u11	When at 17.01 p.m. Mr Van Dijk's e-mail came in to postpone the AO, my first thought was with all those people who came to The Hague to be present at that AO and even rented hotel rooms. Anyway, there has been a majority for this postponement. Now Mrs Dijkstra is here to ask for a plenary debate on the same subject, namely the motion for a resolution. Is there regular payment of the pgbs on 15 May? I think it is important to talk about this, so I support the request. I prefer to hold the debate next week, not to keep everyone waiting any longer. I think it is very good that, in committee, for example, we should agree on a written round in order to be able to ask a number of questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-11.u12	I can fully agree with that. I also find it particularly annoying for all the people who have come here for nothing. I hear they've also booked hotel rooms and made miles. It's really very annoying. I support Mrs Dijkstra's request to hold a debate, preferably next week. I am also glad that we can ask written questions again, because my group also has questions. With regard to the presence of directors, I can imagine that, also in view of the presentation of the General Court, we are inviting both directors.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-11.u13	The SGP also supports the request to debate this next week or the following week. For our part, too, there is embarrassment towards those who have come to the debate for nothing, but it is a good thing that further questions can be asked about the information that has come this afternoon. I also agree with those who have said: let us also have a written round for questions that have remained. I also support the proposal to invite both directors, namely those of VWS and those of Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-11.u14	On behalf of the PVV also support for a debate on this issue, so support for Mrs Dijkstra's request. As far as we are concerned, we will have that debate next week, if possible, and otherwise in two weeks' time, with both directors.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-11.u15	Mrs Dijkstra, I note that you have the support of a large majority in favour of holding a debate on the payment of pgbs. Quite a lot of groups have said that they prefer to do so next week. That is what we are going to try, in the presence of two State Secretarys, namely those of VWS and those of Social Affairs. A further round of questions has also been requested, for which the political groups can put questions through the committee chairman. I propose that we include the questions about the timeline and so on. I'll have it done through two commission directors, both through Social Affairs and through VWS. I have to look at how we do that in the lead, but it seems useful to me that it is done in width. There will be a five-minute speaking time per group, and I think that would be wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-11.u16	We will also try to arrange, through the committee, in an additional procedural meeting, for people to be heard in a round table. This gives us the opportunity to gain much more insight.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-11.u17	I'm going to check with the Registrar whether the debate can be scheduled for next week, because I've heard that a lot of people want it next week. If there's also a round table conversation, it won't make it any easier. In this process I also see that there is new information. Frankly, I would very much like to schedule this plenary debate next week, but if the Chamber says in a majority that it wants to have a round table first... I do not want us to keep moving forward in the procedure every time the debate, which everyone wants to have today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-11.u18	But I think it should be possible to organise the round table before then.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-11.u19	Okay. Then I hope so, and I assume that the debate will be scheduled next week.
