ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-5.u1	As you are aware, one of the members submitted a letter of candidacy to the Chamber to the Registry on Friday 26 June 2015, 12 noon, for the vacancy, in particular: Mr A.H. Flierman in Markelo. I give the floor to Mr Flierman for a brief explanation of his candidacy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. In addition to what I already wrote in my letter, I note the following. When I joined this Chamber six years ago, I did so mainly on the basis of a social commitment and with the ambition to contribute something from my political point of view to the governance of our country and thus to society. I believe that all Members here are committed to the same substance, an involvement which, by the way, does not have to hide any considerable differences of opinion as to what our society should look like and the desired development of it. The debate and decision-making are our core business. That contributes to the country and enriches us all. However, in recent years I have also been able to see how important it is that this debate is not only substantive, but also procedural and meeting-technically flawless and how important it is that our work here is supported by a small but highly professional and serviceable organisation. If both are well in order, this will greatly benefit the substantive debate. This strengthens the authority of the Chamber. A proper representation, a representation of the Chamber, also strengthens its authority. These three tasks, the running of meetings, representation and supervision of the organisation, are, in my opinion, the central task of the President, supported by the two Vice-Presidents. That is an administrative rather than a political role. I had a conversation with my group chairman and my party chairman some time ago that I often feel as much or perhaps even more of a driver than the politician in this House. That is why the role of Vice-President also appeals to me and I will be happy, on behalf of the Chamber and all its members, of course neutral and above the parties and in good consultation with our President, the Vice-President and the Registrar, to contribute on occasion to the smooth running of meetings, to the proper functioning of the organisation and to the proper representation of the Chamber where this has been designated. I would be honored if you would all entrust me with that responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-5.u3	Does one of the Members wish to ask questions to the candidate? I note that this is not the case. I thank Mr Flierman. In accordance with Rule 113 of the Rules of Procedure, the election will take place in writing. Mr Hermans, President, Mr Vos, Mr Postema and Mr Gerkens are hereby appointed voters. You must fill out the ballot papers clearly and properly. I would point out that not duly or insufficiently filled ballot papers pursuant to Rule 114 of the Rules of Procedure are invalid. A valid vote is a ballot note on which there is clearly no more and no more than the name of a candidate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-5.u4	I give the floor to Mr Hermans, president of the polling station.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-5.u5	Mr. Chairman. The vote was taken at 73 votes, 72 of which were for Mr Flierman and 1 blank.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-5.u6	I would like to thank Mr Hermans and the other members of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities for their work. On the basis of the results of this election, I note that Mr Flierman has obtained an absolute majority in accordance with Rule 115 of the Rules of Procedure and has thus been elected first Vice-President of the First Chamber of the States General.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-5.u7	The meeting isn't suspended, remember! The next item is the election of the second Vice-President of the First Chamber of the States General. As you are aware, one of the members submitted a letter of candidacy to the Chamber to the Registry on Friday 26 June 2015, 12.00 p.m., in particular: Mr J.P. Backer in The Hague. I give the floor to Mr Backer for a brief explanation of his candidacy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-5.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Flierman on his election as the first Vice-President of this Chamber. I would like to explain briefly my own candidacy. The Rules of Procedure provide that the President may temporarily delegate the chair of the meeting to one of the Vice-Presidents. That is the most visible part of the work of the Vice-Presidents. It is not in the light of the fact that the President and the two Vice-Presidents together constitute the Administrative Commission, which supervises the work of the Registrar and, as the Rules of Procedure state very precisely, as far as the household of the Chamber is concerned. In my letter to you I also mentioned the particular challenge of the renovation of the Binnenhof complex. I think it is going to cost a lot of money, but the main thing in the House's Committee is the day-to-day organisation and support for our work. It is my experience, and undoubtedly all of the new members, that the Registrar does this quietly and professionally, but that is not obvious. This supervision will have to be carried out as a good family father. We have a 2016 expenditure estimate of 13 million and 45.5 fte at 52 formation sites, so we really have an organization that represents something. We, as Members, are also doing a great deal of work here, partly thanks to this support. You may expect me to pay attention to this, should you choose me in this position. And then there are the representative tasks at home and abroad. You know, the Netherlands has a big foreign country. Today, association agreements with three countries are on the agenda of the plenary session. In one of the three, Georgia, I was able to discuss the importance of the rule of law with the President and the Registrar. The shaping of the rule of law is an ambition of neighbouring countries in and outside Europe. That will undoubtedly be the subject of today's debate. It is a public interest that I hope to be able to contribute a little more in the position. Then there are the challenges for ourselves and for this institute in the coming years. I see the cooperation with the President and the first Vice-President as the three dikes in an old-Holland landscape. You've got the guard dyke first. That is, of course, the President. Then you have inland the reserve dike; it is called the sleeper dike. If the sleeper dike does not function, there is also the dromerdijk. So that is watchful, sleepy and dreamy, but it alternates, because the President can hand over the leadership and then, I assure you, I will be awake. I am sure you will test me too and not give me the opportunity to learn this quietly. Finally. I am from a group, the D66 Group, but if you choose me, I will also be a bit of yours after the election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-5.u9	Thank you, Mr Backer; the awake Backer, we have heard. Does one of the Members wish to ask questions to the candidate? I note that this is not the case. In accordance with Rule 113 of the Rules of Procedure, the election of the second Vice-President shall also take place in writing. Mr Hermans, President, Mr Vos, Mr Postema and Mr Gerkens are once again elected voters. You have to fill in the ballot papers clearly and properly again, and I would like to point out once again that not duly or not clearly filled ballot papers are invalid under Rule 114 of the Rules of Procedure. A valid vote is a ballot note on which there is clearly no more and no more than the name of a candidate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-5.u10	I give the floor to Mr Hermans, president of the polling station.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-5.u11	Mr. Chairman. 73 votes were cast, 65 of which were cast against Mr Backer, 7 blank and 1 invalid.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-5.u12	I would like to thank Mr Hermans and the other members of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities for their work. On the basis of the results of this election, I note that, pursuant to Rule 115 of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Backer has obtained an absolute majority and has thus been elected second Vice-President of the First Chamber of the States General.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-5.u13	I should like to congratulate him on this and to have our congratulations accompanied by these flowers. I shall suspend the sitting for a few minutes to give Members the opportunity to congratulate Mr Flierman and Mr Backer.
