ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister and the Secretary of State for Security and Justice to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. The budget of the Ministry of Security and Justice has been the subject of a strong political battle this year. The direct commitment of this struggle was a sum of 200 million euros structuralally on an annual basis. The budget for security and justice was thus tied to a thread. Without that amount, the risk of rejection would have been considerable. For the CDA Group, the EUR 200 million increase was in any case crucial. The impression may arise that with this amount of money everything is in order, but that is not the case at all. Firstly, it is my group's belief that the additional amount for Security and Justice allows for an absolute minimum of improvements to ensure essential functions of the rule of law. Jumps such as an own detention contribution that doesn't solve anything and is actually just a transfer to municipalities or other ministries are fortunately past tense. But then there are claims on the table, for example for improving the police cao or the Council's call for justice. Secondly, it is not just a question of an increase in the budget but, above all, of what is being done with this increase, that is, whether these sums are being used in a fruitful way. Security and Justice can also talk about lost money for large ICT projects, for example. The Radar system, for example, which could automatically detect fraud, also resulted in a huge failure. That cost millions. So not only the increase is important, but also the way in which amounts are used. Thirdly, because of the focus on budgetary amounts, there is a danger that there will also be issues in the area of security and justice that are not primarily related to finance. The functioning of the Ministry is already an example of this. Issues such as the "bonus affair" and the so-called photo of Volkert van der G. are some of them, but of course the issue goes deeper. Does the Minister agree with these three first observations? These three observations are the starting point of my speech. A speech in which I would like to discuss the state of security and justice in the light of the rule of law. I deal with the police, the prosecutor's office, the case law and, of course, the access to it, the chain and the functioning of the ministry. The essence of my speech is divided into three parts: 1. It is necessary to change the orientation in thinking. By this I mean that the rule of law should not only be approached in abstracto, from the point of view of the state of the triad, but also from the everyday reality, from the point of view of the citizen; 2. It is necessary to shift the focus of government. By this I mean: less focus on views in policy and legislation, and more attention to implementation. Implementation must be effective, efficient and structurally sound, in such a way that there should not always be an occasion to re-establish public services; 3. It is necessary that a ministry as an organisation remains manageable. By this I mean that a ministry should not become an unmanageable moloch, but should be a well-equipped organisation with sufficiently qualified professionals, who are at the service of what it is on earth, namely contributing to a reliable government with credible directors acting in the public interest. Does the Minister share this view? My group believes that a change of direction is necessary in order to achieve this vision. I shall begin with a few comments on the rule of law. The democratic rule of law remains a subject of ongoing discussion. The mere fact that we are entering the new year with a debate on a possible state committee to be set up for the revision of the parliamentary system makes this clear. The rule of law is not an immutable greatness. It is important not to identify the achievements of the rule of law with its implementation at a certain point in time. He must always be seen against the background of the society he must standardize and at the same time the society within which he must function. In 2014 and 2015, it became painfully clear that our sometimes taken for granted security is very vulnerable. And also that the dividing line between internal security and security in the foreign domain is becoming less clear. In our view, this means that the answer from the Netherlands must be to invest more in security, more in international security and more in security and justice in the Netherlands, the subject of this debate. Since last year, we have seen the basic infrastructure of the rule of law being gnawed at. I refer to measures such as the increase in registry law and the limitation of subsidised legal aid. The CDA Group is concerned about the functioning of the different components in the chain and the chain itself. I'll start with the police. Police are crucial to the perception of the rule of law. In terms of day-to-day security and the sense of security, the police are perhaps the most important ones. Not for nothing is there so attached to blue on the street. The National Police has been created to make the police organisation more effective, but the CDA Group is very concerned about this National Police. For four years, four years, this reorganisation has been going on. The national and regional leadership of the police is still being seized at the expense of the actual work. Dozens of police stations are closed down, thousands of policemen are still in uncertainty about their placement and the costs of the reorganisation have been greatly underestimated. In the fight for better working conditions, many expensive police hours have been lost, as we have seen in the strikes. That "lost" amount even goes up to 60 million. The number of district cops isn't in order yet, and there's a stop to recruiting detectives. And the chief of police has quit due to the failure of the reorganisation. In addition, the available police cannot at present be fully used for the normal core tasks. Last Friday, the report was published that the police will recover the extra costs incurred for the reception of asylum seekers from the Ministry of Security and Justice over the past year. This involves the deployment of 1 500 to 2,000 police officers and a sum of EUR 10 million. This does not relate to the ordinary manpower, but only to the additional costs of overtime and additional material costs. Earlier it became clear that the stakes are at the expense of the search. A climax formed the police mole who informed serious criminals and was recently exposed. This debacle made it clear that the screening on a wider scale was not in order. Unfortunately, this man was not the only one who had access to classified information without screening, but one of the probably over a hundred people. Citizens should be able to count on the police. When did the Minister put things in order here? When does he expect to appoint a new chief of police? When does he think all promised district agents will be placed? When's the CID gonna be okay? How does the Minister deal with structural capacity problems? How does he guarantee sufficient blue in the streets, taking into account the reorganisation and assuming that the commitment to ensuring order and security in and around asylum seekers' centres will remain necessary in the coming period? I say it more generally: how does he intend to restore the broken trust? I'd like to draw attention to the state attorney's office right now. The Hoekstra Committee published a destructive report this year on the failure of the prosecution and police in the treatment of the later suspect of the murder of former Minister Els Borst. It became painfully clear that the defendant should have been arrested, arrested and treated much earlier. The Hoekstra committee found that structural problems were hidden behind this regrettable and poignant event. Can the Minister indicate what concrete improvements have actually been made in response to the recommendations? This is more specifically what my group is asking for because of a message that appeared last Thursday. That report said that the D.A.'s office of about 12,000 convicts wrongly didn't take any DNA. Underneath were, according to the message, all together dozens of persons convicted of murder, manslaughter, rape or assault. Also, the suspect in Mrs. Borst's murder could have been in the picture earlier, if his DNA had been taken in time. Of over 10,000 convicts, according to the same message, no address appears to be known to the police. A "catch-up" has now been announced by the Minister and more people appear to be recruited from the Public Prosecutor's Office for this purpose. Is that right? When is this in order and what real prospects are there? Does the budget provide sufficient room for this? At the beginning of my speech, I asked for attention to be paid to implementation rather than legislation. In recent years, we have received several legislative proposals aimed at strengthening criminal law, such as the one on increasing criminal ceilings. The latter even applied to a crime for which no one has ever been convicted, the marital coercion. However, in the area of security and justice, stricter criminal law is a very indirect steering tool. In order to have real effect, someone must first be tracked down and then prosecuted and tried. Then it is up to the judge to determine the degree of punishment. The first line is better served by the implementation of what is already possible: a proper and adequate implementation of detection and prosecution. And sometimes it doesn't work out. Last week, a new series of recommendations were published for the D.A.'s office. These are the recommendations made by the Oosting Committee on the so-called 'bonus affair'. When the report was published, the Minister immediately decided to adopt the recommendations. At what time will this take place? How does this reorganisation relate to the measures already under way? A well-functioning judiciary is a prerequisite for a well-functioning rule of law. By "functioning well," I mean first of all a high-quality case law. Access to justice is also very important. That standard will soon be enshrined in the Constitution in order to implement a motion by my former colleague Pia Lokin-Sassen. Justice must be open to everyone. The withdrawal of the cut in subsidised legal aid has my group's agreement. Justice must be accessible, not just to the poor and the poor and to large companies. This is important from the point of view of the rule of law. The levying of registry fees is in itself legitimate and can prevent lightly litigious litigation. It is not, however, a question of increasing registry fees to cover the public purse, which jeopardises access to justice. My group is therefore also pleased that the planned job increase is in place. Good case law also means that the duration of proceedings must not get out of hand. My group is also receiving worrying reports about this. It is well known that the combination of the funding system and the supply of cases increases the pressure on the judiciary. The case-law Council speaks of a budget deficit of 25 million per year. How does the Minister intend to provide for this? I now move on to the subject of the chain. Slowly but surely, the consequences of the cuts in the public prosecutor's office, the police, the NFI and the justice system, including their accessibility, are becoming apparent. The CDA has confidence in all these chain organisations: in the police, in the prosecutor's office, in the NFI and in the justice system. But there's a limit to everything. No organisation can function when the available budgets and available specialist staff have crossed the lower limit. However, there is also something else. A few years ago, a staggering report was published by the General Court on performance in the criminal justice chain. In response, initiatives have been taken to at least understand what the performance is in all parts of the chain and in the chain itself. This transparent information system would be ready in 2016. So that's years after that. If I have understood correctly, this is only about the provision of information and not even directly about the results of the improvement in substance. Can the Minister elaborate on this? I come now to a reliable government and with that to the Ministry itself. The CDA is also very concerned about this. There seems to be a gap between reality and the images created by it. Sometimes that doesn't seem right. That's more harmful than it might seem at first sight. It undermines the confidence of the Dutch in politics and the rule of law. Thus the Minister continued to deny that the reorganisation of the National Police had stalled, until the police themselves announced that it was no longer possible. Like I said, even the Chief Constable quit. Now it turns out that three years extra time and a double the amount are needed to get the National Police in order. That's an embarrassing situation. We also hear positive reports about safety, and sometimes later it appears that things are slightly different from what seemed to be the case at first sight. For example, the number of crimes registered by the police indeed decreased to 1 million. However, fewer crimes have been resolved since the establishment of the National Police in 2013, despite the reduction in the number of crimes. According to the figures, the transition to the National Police was 50,000 less crimes. Let me give you another example. In the area of I&A, reassuring reports on security risks and other reports on delays and insufficient registration and identity checks of incoming refugees are exchanged. Those different messages are hard to reconcile. Imago must never go for content. Reality must not be obscured, because when it becomes known what it really is, the damage is all the greater. Does the Minister recognise that the gap between the reality presented by the Ministry's communication experts and the actual reality has sometimes become too large? And how's he gonna change this? The NRC even wrote about the "seven plagues" of justice. At the Ministry, image would go for everything. What goes wrong is not denied, but neutralized. The Ministry has emerged as an organization formed by nearly 100,000 people. That's too big for the CDA. It has become increasingly difficult to align all interests. We live in the rule of law. We live in a democratic rule of law. My group therefore has the necessary reservations about the way in which local democracy has been handled lately under the auspices of the Secretary of State. At the reception locations for asylum seekers, the central government's perseverance, including the COA, seems decisive. Local democracy and even the provision of local information seem to have to give way to this. I would like to receive a response from the Minister on this point. I shall now come to the final part of my speech. I would like to begin by saying that where they are chopped, chips fall. And there's a lot to chop up in the field of security and justice. My group's contribution to this debate is not aimed at putting small incidents, which will occur everywhere, under a magnifying glass and then with a loud voice'shame'! to shout. However, the CDA Group is concerned that we must now and in the future ensure a democratic rule of law, structuralally and not just in state-law terms on paper. It must be a democratic rule of law that is a polite reality; a rule of law that, in its implementation, works with a credible ministry, credible rulers and a credible cabinet. That is still lacking on many fronts. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State. Firstly, whether he shares the view expressed by my group on the rule of law, the necessary changes of course and the problems mentioned, and what real obstacles he sees in practice in shifting that course. It's easy to say that we're going to do business differently, but we all know that the practice of real life is sometimes a little more uncomfortable. So what obstacles does the Minister see? Secondly, I would like to ask the Minister what specific measures he is not going to take in order to make improvements in these areas. Thirdly, I would like to ask him what concrete results he can give on these points for the coming year. What will be achieved in the coming year? And why am I asking this? In order to prevent us from being back in this Chamber in one or two years' time and having to have exactly the same debate again. My group looks forward with great interest to the answer to these questions by the Minister and the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u3	Thank you, Mrs Van Bijsterveld, also for staying well within the time. Mrs Duthler has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u4	Mr. Chairman. It is an exception rather than a rule that a budget debate is held in this Chamber. This is now happening for the second time in a row for the budget of Security and Justice and not for nothing. Let me begin by saying that, in the run-up to this budget debate, the government has taken a number of positive steps. The VVD Group appreciates that the increase in registry fees is definitely not going through and that the government has withdrawn the legislative proposal's own contribution to detention. For 2016 an additional 310 million will be allocated to the budget of Security and Justice, from 2017 on a structural 250 million and the 2016 Spring Note will be reviewed to see if this is enough. These are good reports, let me stress this, but we are not there yet, because looking closely at the budget and zooming in on issues such as National Police, Justice and the criminal justice chain, my group is very concerned. It therefore wishes to draw attention to this in this debate. I would like to point out that several debates have taken place in this Chamber over the last few years on constitutional matters. That wasn't for nothing either. The issues which my group will address below are closely related and, moreover, closely interrelated. I come to access to justice and, first of all, to justice itself. The judge has a central role in the rule of law. The VVD Group is deeply concerned about the state of justice. It seems that justice is becoming more and more shattered. Procedures at first instance can last just four years, I know from my own experience. For example, interim rulings for the appointment of experts may be postponed time and time again. Last autumn, I received a letter from the Hague Deacon announcing that the request for appeal to the Hof's Hertogenbosch could not be met until 2017. I understand that such a long lead time also applies to the Court of Leeuwarden-Arnhem. This is inexplicable to those who seek justice. There is therefore no de facto question of real access to justice. Does the government share these concerns and does the government have a statement? The case law has to do with large deficits caused by Rutte II's mandate, investment in KEI and the decline in inflow. The decline in inflows concerns both the decline in criminal matters and the decline in civil cases. What causes the decline in criminal matters? Possibly because of the reduction in crime, but are the internal reorganisation problems of the National Police not much more obvious? Is the capacity of the police being used up well enough at the moment? Until recently, there were 65,000 employees who were in uncertainty about their employment position and position in the organisation. No new chief of police has been appointed yet. Around Sinterklaas the provisional placement decisions would be communicated to the staff. How did they fall? Is there any indication of a percentage of objections that has been or is being lodged? There is another concern for the National Police, namely the care of ICT systems and the related milestone planning. This hasn't been going well for years. The 25 ICT systems are still not integrated and there is still no idea of their implementation. Well-functioning ICT systems are essential for the vital operation of the police. I am not talking about security, such as good and verifiable authorisation of ICT systems. Mrs. Van Bijsterveld already referred to the mole, the police mole. The minister previously distinguished between hard planning, pencil planning and even brush planning. Just making such a distinction makes alarm bells go off. I would say, through the chairman, Mr. Secretary of State, that a hard schedule is agreed, taking into account delays in time and costs. No ICT project escapes that. With pencil planning, let alone brush planning, the Minister should not be satisfied. Of the 250 million additional structuralally spent on the security and justice budget, 138 million are earmarked for the National Police. The VVD Group would like to ensure that the extra 138 million is also well spent and that the Minister keeps his finger on the pulse. The Minister himself probably wouldn't want that to happen either. How did he think of this? What measures does the Minister take to achieve this? There aren't just concerns about the National Police. The National Police are part of the criminal justice chain. This chain of criminal law cracks in its joints and threatens to get stuck. A risk analysis carried out on the budget of Security and Justice showed that the cuts in the Public Prosecutor's office and I quote "are not feasible without risks to the primary process'. The pace of austerity is moving too fast, that was the conclusion. This is obviously very worrying. What conclusions does the government draw from this risk analysis and, more importantly, what actions and measures? Is the government prepared to include the State's Attorney's Office in the announced 2016 Spring Note, in which it considers whether additional money should be added? And then back to the case law and the influx of new cases. There are complex issues involved in the case-law. On the one hand the workload is increasing and on the other hand there is less budget. The influx of business is decreasing. Less q means, on the basis of the q x p principle, less money from the Ministry for Justice. At the same time, I have just noticed that civil proceedings at first instance can last indefinitely and that applications for appeals in apples will not be honored until 2017. How is this compatible? Should we not look again at the method of financing? How does the government view this? I'm joining the KEI program. As has been said, there is a so-called KEI programme. KEI stands for quality and innovation, including the digitisation of justice. The savings to be made by this programme are partly used to achieve the tasks imposed by the government on the judiciary. In 2020, between 50 and 52 million euros will be included. How realistic is this? The government is certainly not a big deal when it comes to ICT projects. Often it runs out in time and costs and not all functionalities can be realized. This is not only the case with the government. The introduction of KEI has been postponed until the results of the pilots carried out are known. What is the status and what is the prognosis? Are the savings already made realistic? I come to the following subject, the courts' locations, the multiannual plan and the role of the Council for Justice, in particular with regard to the powers of the Minister and Parliament. Will the seven courts remain open to major cases? The coverage of this issue is unclear. The First Chamber took note with frowning eyebrows of the content of the Council's multiannual plan for justice, in particular of the so-called location policy and its impact on the legally regulated seats. It is not for nothing that the Court of Justice has asked a number of pressing questions about the implications that the Council attaches to this location policy, the scope of which can be summarized briefly by: who is actually dealing with this? In the legal text and in the legal history of both the establishment of the Court of Justice Council in 2002 and the Judicial Card Review Act (HGK) in 2012, there is no evidence of a far-reaching decision-making power of the Council for the case-law. On the contrary, the legislator has considered the Council to be a management body for the management of the case-law. The order and power to distribute the case packages between the courts is expressly laid down in the law before the courts. It is the courts that have to decide in the first instance which large and which small cases are to be dealt with in a courtroom. They, too, must respect the spirit of the law, which means that all existing seats must and must remain fully operational. How could the Council have come up with the idea that its powers would go so far beyond what the legislator has determined and, more importantly, why did the Minister leave this image uncontested for so long? The VVD Group attaches great importance to clarity in this matter for the following reason. In the creation of the HGK Act, the First Chamber agreed to the proposal to remove the appointment of seats from the law, subject to the express condition that the seat should be changed by means of an AMvB with a suspension procedure. This express condition was also expressly accepted by the minister's predecessor during the debate in the First Chamber. The collective reduction, in the multiannual Council for Justice, of seven courts where all large and small cases are now dealt with, to the same number of seats for small cases, is contrary to this condition. If this were to become the standard for dealing with not only the letter, but also the spirit of the law, the Chamber should now regret that it did not require the AMvB requirement to be included in the repair law in 2012. My group considers this to be a bad example of the way in which the movement between government and parliament should take place and is irritated by this state of affairs. What strikes me is that the course of events seems to fit in a pattern. The administrative ambitions of the Council and the current President's meeting have grown in recent years. We are seeing a growing bureaucracy and regulation, with no clear legal basis. As has already been pointed out, such a development has certainly not been envisaged by the legislator. In this context, the interview with the former Vice-President of the Council of State, Mr Tjeenk Willink, in the December issue of the magazine you are all undoubtedly familiar with, Mr. In that he takes a firm stand against what he calls the "governance" of the judiciary, driven by the Council of Justice, threatening to strike the balance between administration, politics and justice. "It was never meant to be," he said, "that the Council would become the minister's deputy to the judges." This criticism fits perfectly with the content of the Leeuwarder Manifest of December 2012. My group believes that the time has come for the legislator to look again at the Council's role and task in the field of justice. We believe that the forthcoming review of the HGK Act would be an appropriate time for an in-depth assessment of the Council's decision taken in 2002. Does the Minister agree with the VVD Group? Finally, I come to the future of the funded legal aid and the report of the Wolfsen Committee. The Wolfsen Committee recommends strengthening the direction of the system and improving its bottlenecks. Issues that this committee highlights are the lack of proper coordination, a lack of exchange of information between parties and bodies and the structural failure to collect the contributions of those seeking justice. Similarly, the quality of legal aid providers is too often at varying levels. In any situation, the quality is even below the mark. Expertise requirements for different areas should be at a higher level across the board and comparable in terms of level. The VVD Group noted that the cost increases from 329 million in 2002 to 440 million in 2014 were mainly due to the growth in the number of additions by 41%. The budget for V and J contains a budget of more than EUR 1.4 billion for justice and legal aid. Almost a third of them are funded legal aid. That's very strong. The Wolfsen Commission states in its report that, among other things, the financing models do not contribute to the efficient handling of divorce requests, for example. The Wolfsen Committee cites this example. This is in line with my earlier observation that it would be wise to look at the way in which justice is financed. Does the government wish to explicitly include this point in its cabinet response? What incentives could be introduced to discourage the use of the legal aid financed? In the debate on the state of the rule of law last year, my group suggested examining alternative forms of financing of legal aid. Has the government taken these suggestions to heart and if so, what is their status? It is also striking that the Committee recommends that the points numbers per addition be evaluated and the points fees increased slightly. The VVD Group wishes to highlight the fact that it will be critical of this. It wonders whether this contributes to a brake on the growth of the number of additions. I understand that the cabinet response can be expected in spring. Is the government prepared to enter into oral consultations with this Chamber before taking action on this cabinet response? I'll come to a conclusion. There is so much more to say, but the VVD Group has limited itself to the most pressing points. As has already been said, the VVD Group has voted in favour of this report, and we are also making some positive comments about the withdrawal of the increase in registry rights and own contribution detention, as well as the additional financial resources already promised by the government for the budget of V and J. The concerns it has, in particular, with regard to the National Police, the stalled criminal justice chain and the organisation and access to justice are substantial. The VVD Group looks forward with interest to the Government's response to the questions and suggestions it has put to it, and assumes that the last word has not yet been said.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u5	Thank you, Mrs Duthler. I note that, thanks to Mrs Van Bijsterveld, we are still in time. I say this with some threat to the next speakers, whom I would ask to keep to speaking time. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u6	Well, thank you very much, Mr President. I'll do my best. The draft budget presented on Prinsjesdag confirmed for the D66 Group the picture of a problem that has been present for several years: 1) the benefits of announced measures will be borne out of the costs; 2) legislative proposals that should generate revenue persist; 3) reform plans and reorganisations are much more expensive than initially budgeted; and 4) with continued cuts in the key players in the criminal justice chain (police, OM, lawyer and justice) the legal system is in danger of stalling or even derailing. Not for nothing was the Court of Auditors also very critical. The report with focus on the draft budget of 29 October shows that there is a vulnerable relationship between ambition, resources and time. The information value in relation, for example, to the National Police is limited and the objectives for improving performance in the criminal justice chain after 3.5 years have still not been formulated. Gradually this autumn, the criticism of the Ministry and therefore also of the rulers has become more intense and more intrusive. This is partly due to the fact that this year's image loss of the Ministry has fallen to a low point. In particular, the acceptance rate of almost all stakeholders in legal practice for the policies pursued in recent years has declined substantially. The Ministry of Security and Justice has had a lot to do from the start of the Rutte I cabinet. The transition from the entire cluster of public order and security to the Ministry of Justice has left the Ministry of Justice orphaned and within the now monstrous Department of Justice reduced attention to justice and constitutional values. My group has repeatedly indicated that the political choice made for a re-established Ministry of Security and Justice has been a completely wrong one. What was intended as a strengthening of both security and justice, turned into a weakening of both after the merger. The creation of a concentration of power between the police and the judiciary also suggests an osmosis that makes the importance of optimal rule of law in advance. The return to the original departmental division based on checks and balances, with a stricter separation of detection and public order and thus a better balance between the rule of law and democracy, is the inevitable signal that my group recently issued again at General Reviews. A motion to that effect, Mr De Graaf, has been accepted in this Chamber. It must not have escaped the attention of the cabinet and the rulers that no one outside the VVD supports this miserable figure anymore. I cannot, therefore, fail to ask the rulers immediately what is going on with the preparation of this unbundling. However, I think I know the answer. What has made this wrong choice worse is the fact that the rulers and Bitches appeared on the new superministry as overzealous crime fighters. They mainly looked at security, enforcement and prosecution. The classical qualities of justice, i.e. the monitoring and strengthening of the rule of law and the care for quality, coherence, system-compliant and fundamental principles of law, disappeared into the background. The ambition was as much repression as possible, motivated by the mantra that "the" "the" "undefined society" so desires. This one-sided focus on serving the displeasure living in certain social segments resulted in a series of ill-thought-out plans and occasional legislation devoid of classical principles of law. I refer to the increase in registry rights, the reduction in legal aid, the further removal of the courts, cuts in the public prosecutor's office, an unsuccessful introduction of the National Police, its own contribution to trial costs and detention, an extension of the provisional detention, wider possibilities for re-executing acquitted suspects, the extension of the victim's right to speak, the introduction of higher penalties, and a greater arsenal of investigative powers. For example, the former Minister and Secretary of State, the executives of punishment, as a member of the political group in the previous period, were once strikingly remarked. In the meantime, the affairs piled up and the Ministry has become more and more keen on the trail. I also refer to the article on the seven plagues of the Ministry of V and J in the NRC of 9 July 2015. The plagues have already been mentioned by Mr Van Bijsterveld, so I will not repeat them now. The Ministry created its own reality and tried to sweep every form of criticism of it with a fixed political majority and a one-dimensional media strategy under the carpet. How are the new rulers going to change this far-fetched image? That is the crucial question that many asked themselves when they took office. My group believes that the continuation of existing policies and culture is not in line with expectations after all these deconfiencies and severely damaged reputations. I'd like to hear from the rulers how they look at that. Then the 2016 budget. In the original budget, the new rulers are still proud to continue working on a strong and modern rule of law. In this way, the quality and performance of criminal justice should be improved. The quality of the investigation and prosecution processes will be increased by improving the quality of their reporting and handling by the police, implementing the recommendations of the Hoekstra Commission towards OM, tightening the planning of sessions and speeding up the implementation of penalties. The fight against crime is being pursued vigorously. At first sight, this sounds ambitious, but on second thought, there is some doubt as to whether all this can be achieved. For example, the 2012 General Court's report on performance in the criminal justice chain is already three years old, but criminal justice is still failing. The latest progress report on the "Strengthening Performance of the Criminal Justice Chain" programme of 14 September. Now doesn't directly vote for great joy. According to WODC's research, only 7% was handled within two years of influx into the chain in 2010-2011 or in the processing phase. The monitoring of the Office's working quantities in 2014 shows that the further increase in working quantities has been stopped. For the next few years, the Minister is afraid to set a concrete objective even now, and in terms of improving the flow, he is putting his hopes on the National Police; this must be said to be very brave. Is this now a perspective that will restore confidence in the criminal justice chain, I ask the rulers. In the meantime, the signals from the legal system itself are not misunderstood. The cuts made in the legal chain are starting to take their toll. The shortages in police, prosecutors and justice are growing, and there is less manpower available. In the meantime, however, there is a need to reorganise and introduce new, digital process forms. This lack of money and time makes it increasingly difficult for all those involved in the criminal justice chain to continue to perform at the required level and to meet the demands of politics. It is not for nothing that we have seen an unusual activism among judges and lawyers in the past year. Judges came up with a manifesto about the workload and with demonstrations at courts, lawyers went into the streets in toga, the police held actions and the prosecution issued a profit warning. In other words, the paradox is that, on the one hand, this cabinet is one-dimensionally focusing on security and the fight against crime by putting maximum effort on severe penalties, extended investigative powers and particular attention to victims. On the other hand, the cuts in the criminal justice chain are precisely leading to insufficient police capacity and resources to adequately address signals of insecurity from society, to insufficient capacity for the prosecution of suspects in serious cases, to the situation that wrongly suspected citizens can no longer count on a specialised lawyer and to the fact that the case law continues to be blocked and is more at risk of making mistakes. These substantial and multiannual cuts, resulting in increasing pressure on the legal system, are no longer justified. If this continues, this will lead to many time- and energy-consuming further reorganisations, further scaling up and a one-sided and divergent focus on efficiency and quality loss. At the same time, we are on the verge of a fully digitised litigation. In view of all this, my group would think that the power of the ministry should be changed considerably. I would like to hear from the rulers whether they are prepared to stand up less to the players in the justice chain and whether they want to develop more as partners of the judges, the prosecutors and the police. A positive first start is that, prior to the examination of the budget of V and J in the Lower House, the cabinet submitted a package of additional funds by letter of 20 November, which would allow an additional 310 million to be invested. The irresponsible filling of gaps in the existing budget seems to have been stopped for the most part. Many of the additional expenditure envisaged also sound positive: 60 million for asylum policy, 200 million for the criminal justice chain and 50 million for the repeal of the legislative proposals on increasing registry rights and an own contribution from detainees. In particular, the intention to repeal a number of fragile legislative proposals can be regarded as an extremely good and, as far as my group is concerned, encouraging choice. Unfortunately, the legislative proposal on its own contribution to procedural costs remains in place, but we are going to discuss it here, after which the proposal can be withdrawn. But with this one-off financial injection, not all concerns have been removed at once. In a democratic rule of law, independent and impartial justice is an essential starting point. In addition to careful and democratically legitimised legislation and responsible and good governance, good, timely and legally legitimised justice is essential. The Ministry of Justice, first and final responsibility for the rule of law and justice, must feel a strong responsibility to invest adequately in this area. However, the budget shows, even in a multiannual perspective, a structural deficit of 32 million for the function of justice. One of its consequences initially seemed to be the undressing of seven regional courts, while the dust of the revision of the judicial card has not yet descended. Although the threat of unfulfilled or completely dismantled courts by the hands of the Second Chamber seems to have been partially averted for this purpose, I understand that 16 million are needed. There is too high a workload that presents risks for sufficient quality and there is not enough air to respond to new developments such as KEI. In other words, the additional 20 million in the letter of amendment is not enough. A further 30 million will have to be added to this in the Spring paper in order to be able to speak structurally of responsible management. A motion to that effect in the House of Representatives is an understandable and sensible signal for my group. I would like to hear from the rulers how they judge this approach and with what intention they are heading for the Spring Note. Around the state's attorney's office, I've seen a lot of stats come along with numbers. From a certain self-protection, but also for process economic reasons I suppose all known: De Galan I, De Galan II and the counter-expertise of De Jong. My group believes, in view of all this, that the pace of austerity at the state's attorney's office should be reduced. It seems to us that the cuts imposed in terms of pace and size put too much pressure on the public prosecutor and thus on the criminal justice chain. We are still talking about a target of 100 million for 2016. As far as my group is concerned, the 15 million in the letter of amendment and the 6.8 million in the implementation of the Hoekstra report should be increased to 35 million. Political and social pressure on the prosecution is unabated and increasing rather than decreasing. I refer to organised crime, cybercrime, refugee issues, increasing domestic violence, the development of ZSM, the Hoekstra report and development in the social domain. In the meantime, new developments are coming to the DA's office, which also need to take shape again. How do the rulers go with this story to the Spring Note, so I ask them. The National Police still needs to make a qualitative impact, according to the budget, especially in the search. That's especially true of specialist detectives. For this, part of the 180 million from the 310 million pot is available. But this will be difficult because of the lack of concrete plans for improvement for the still unfinished establishment of the National Police. The need for a reprioritisation and a further phase-in of the reorganisation process is sufficiently evident from the discussions held in September in the Lower House and from the discussions held here afterwards. In the context of the review, the Minister indicated that additional resources would be available. So far, the figure has been 250 million, but it seems that the new collective agreement must also be financed from it. My group is also aware that the issue of the National Police is not just a question of money. The chosen scale and the heavy pressure it puts on the final leaders, in particular the Chief Constable, requires a rapid introduction of adequate rules and modes of play. For example, there is too little investment in the relationship with local authority and too much in central decision-making powers. What is the current state of affairs, I ask the rulers and what is the financial perspective towards the Spring Note? I come to asylum policy. Our group is concerned about a concrete and appropriate approach to the large influx of refugees. The additional 60 million has now been made available on an occasional basis out of 310 million, but the question is whether this will prove sufficient in the light of current developments. Developments in the Middle East suggest a further increase in influx, while efforts are being made at European level to keep that influx manageable. This Chamber has asked for a realistic assessment of the figures relating to the asylum chain and refugees, including reception in the region. The letters of 11 December show that the figures still used in the 2015 Autumn Note seem to be obsolete. The current estimate for 2016 is, by the way, surrounded by the necessary uncertainties. Here too, the Spring paper should provide more clarity. With what expectation does the Secretary of State look at the trial of the Spring Note, I would like to ask him. In this context, I would like to point out that the cabinet seems to be making a mortgage on the future ODA budget by already taking up the increase in the ODA budget for the reception of asylum seekers. Here the question arises as to whether spending a large part of the ODA budget in the Netherlands is not at odds with the aim of receiving asylum seekers in the region of origin. The proposed cut in legal aid in this house has been severely criticised. The Scholten motion and the Franken motion adopted here last year provide convincing evidence of this. The rulers were right to make a pass in the place. The recently published Wolfsen report makes it clear that the added value of a legal aid system can be found in a strong and broad first line, in which not only the legal window and the legal profession operate complementaryly, but also other welfare providers and interest groups play a role. The Ministry's expenditure has increased since 2002 from 329 million to 469 million in 2013. By the way, in 2014, expenditure fell back to 440 million. The growth in the number of additions is linked to a range of different factors: the hardening and Juridisation of society, complex regulation, more mature citizens and a flawed flat-rate point system. These developments are particularly reflected in criminal law and divorce law. Given the decentralisation of the social domain and the increasing influx of refugees, the cost of the social domain and foreign law will increase. The Committee proposes a more sustainable and balanced legal aid system, which improves access to justice and keeps costs manageable. The Barkhuysen Committee's report, which has now been published, also calls for a sustainable system, including by legally laying down the financial rules for this purpose and using an open-ended system on the basis of the criteria thus objective, rather than a fixed budget. My group would like to give the leaders of the next budget the opportunity to refrain from cutting legal aid for what it is and to invest in the opinions of the reports that have just been discussed. I'd like to hear if the Minister wants to make this line his. It is good, in itself, I would like to say very well, that the letter of amendment seems to have reached a turning point in covering gaps with new holes, so that something can be done structuralally about the financial risks accumulated in recent years and the budgetary strain. However, the spring note will have to make clear how the rulers are going to correct this problem in full. I say "hey" explicitly, and I don't say "hey." And then, for the record, my group is not waiting for stories with a cash drawer. And are the rulers aware that in the event that this mission would not succeed, they will have to re-exercise both the Second and the First Chamber in the next budget? In short, I would like to ask the Minister what institution and commitment he is going to the Council of Ministers in connection with the forthcoming Spring paper. I cannot help but make a few explicit comments on the Oosting report. I do so with the necessary restraint now that the House of Representatives has yet to discuss it, either tomorrow or another day. The intrusive analyses and conclusions confirm that it is high time for substantial cultural change. First of all, in political culture in general, for example, in dealing with the political responsibility of parliamentarians, with the ministerial responsibility, with the duty of parliamentary intelligence, with the taking of responsibility for improper action and with overstating party interests. Trust in parliamentary democracy is clearly at stake. But for this problem, these rulers are not the first to be held accountable here and now. In addition, I point to a cultural change in the Ministry. In that light, I would like to ask the rulers if they are aware that the epoch- Assemblies/Bitches is over and that new ways need to be taken. Do they realise that there is a broad expectation that they will now have to face a turnaround, or better return to the original quality and image that the Ministry of Justice once had? I would like to tell them that they can do this as servants of the Crown and that in that capacity they no longer have to cling their ears to the party political rhetoric of "treat hard" and more of that type of absurdity. In conclusion, I ask the rulers how they are going to adjust the image of a substantially compromised trust in the Ministry. A solid financial basis under justice policy, which has been established in the Spring Paper, which has already been pointed out by various motions in the House of Representatives, can provide an impetus for a return to a justice department that puts the rule of law first, and not a rule of law that is strictly formal and poor in terms of repression, exercise of power, revanchism and enforcement: the "law and order" approach, but a real rule of law: a rule of law in which law and power are in balance, a rule of law in which the law and the application of law are based on generally accepted principles of justice, legal certainty, proportionality and due diligence, and a rule of law in which legislation is consistent with the general rule of law. A legal order should not be based on subjectivist or party-political normalities, but on a legal awareness of all legal partners in line with the general development of law. I look forward to the reaction of the rulers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u7	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the budget of Security and Justice for the year 2016, the first budget of this minister and this Secretary of State. Both leaders have now noticed that the great importance of their policy areas also translates into great attention from society and parliament to their budget. In both chambers, for example, both the General Political Reviews and the General Financial Reviews highlighted the risks and bottlenecks in the budget. This has led to the announcement of an adjustment of the budget before the budgetary procedure in the House of Representatives, which has been amended by the letter of amendment of 26 November. The PvdA Group welcomes these changes, although not all of our concerns have been taken away, but more on that later. First of all, I should like to mention the blessings that the letter of amendment and the budget debate in the House of Representatives produced. The draft law on the increase of registry fees is repealed. The same applies to the law on own contribution to detention, while the own contribution referred to in the law on own contribution in criminal proceedings is reduced. Moreover, in the letter of amendment, the government increased contributions to the Public Prosecutor's Office, the case law, the Netherlands Forensic Institute and the probation. Additional money is also reserved for the National Police and for legal aid. The coverage of these changes is to a large extent found in the proceeds from large settlements and the intensification of the approach to money laundering and corruption. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has reservations about these proposals for cover. We ask the Minister whether, by relying in advance on revenue from large settlements, the government is not at risk of being influenced by budgetary considerations in concrete cases in order to bring the case to court or settle it. It should not be the case that, because the Minister can use the money so well, wealthy fraudsters get away with a settlement and do not have to justify themselves to the courts. With regard to the expected proceeds from the intensification of the fight against money laundering and corruption, we need a detailed and as concrete as possible explanation from the Minister: what are the proceeds and how are they obtained? We also ask the Minister what he will do if the actual yield is unexpectedly lower than the expected yield. During the budget debate in the Lower House several important motions were tabled and adopted. I am thinking in particular of the Oskam motion on the release of funds to keep the seven threatened courts fully open, the Pechtold motion on sufficient resources for new tasks of the Public Prosecutor's Office, in which I am also thinking of tasks of the Public Prosecutor at the crossroads of punishment and care, and the Kooiman motion on sufficient resources for the primary tasks of the police. In each of these three motions, the Government is invited to release the funds referred to in the 2016 Spring Note. The PvdA Group would like to hear from the Minister whether he intends to carry out these motions. Despite the changes in the budget discussed on the basis of the letter of amendment and even with the implementation of the motions mentioned, there is still an important concern in the PvdA Group. That concern concerns the plight of the financial situation of the judiciary. The Justice Council reported to the Minister a few weeks ago that even if the maximum savings in housing provided for in the multiannual plan, seven of which were threatened to be victims, were to be achieved, there would be a structural deficit of EUR 32 million in the justice budget. Luckily, dismantling the seven courts is off the track. Last week, in a discussion with the Committee on Security and Justice, the President of the Court of Justice made it clear once again: the current case packages of the seven courts are not affected. All the more important, therefore, is the Minister's answer to my question whether he is going to carry out the Oskam motion, but even if the government makes a financial compensation for keeping the seven courts completely open, there is a considerable structural deficit in the budget of justice. This deficit is caused in particular by the austerity task imposed by the government on the case-law and by investments in KEI, the digitisation project of the case-law, which were not included in the cost of the case-law. For the KEI project which is so important, no additional funds have been made available by the government at all! The above has resulted in the Court's own funds reaching zero this year and the budget for the case-law in 2016 shows the above-mentioned structural deficit of EUR 32 million. Recently an article by a group of judges was published in the Dutch Juristenblad, which pointed out that the increase in the law of the Registry in the past and the ruling by the Public Prosecutor of the lighter criminal offences resulted in many minor cases being dropped. I quote the group of judges: "The remaining cases have meanwhile become more complex and time-consuming, inter alia because of the applicability of European law. Payment to the courts shall be made on the basis of output financing, which shall be settled on a case-by-case basis. If the price per "product" is not sufficiently adapted to the complexity of the case, the net result is also a reduction. However, prices have even been adjusted downwards for 2016. The case law has long reached the bottom and further cuts are unacceptable. The Council seems to ignore the fact that justice is the third state power and that it is particularly important for it to be able to fulfil its essential role in our democracy." These judges focus their verbal arrows on the Council of Justice, but I ask the Minister whether it is not the Minister of Justice who ignores the fact that justice is the third state power that must play its essential role in our democratic rule of law. In this context, I should like to mention the heart of the President of the Council's case law, very recently in the media: 'The fact that the third state power of our democracy is in such a precarious financial situation is unworthy of a developed democratic rule of law like the Netherlands'. The PvdA Group asks the Minister to respond to this statement. I'm just gonna report in advance... I'm gonna see the minister speak and I'm gonna say it again. The PvdA Group asks the Minister to respond to this statement. I would just like to say in advance that we are not satisfied with a reference to the additional provisions of the letter of amendment for the case law. I understand that the cover proposal, contained in that note, "Review rent reduction" includes a creaming off of some EUR 10 million on the housing resources of the justice system. I ask the Minister whether I have understood this correctly and, if so, why he is giving us, with one hand, the means to alleviate the financial need of justice somewhat and, at the same time, taking back a large part of it with the other hand. What is the Minister going to do to really put an end to the urgent financial situation of justice, our third state power? And not only that: what is he going to do to enable the judiciary financially to digitize, invest in quality, in line with the conclusions and recommendations of the Cohen Committee, to tackle the high workload and thus reduce the working disadvantages and thus the waiting times for the citizens of Europe that Mrs Duthler has so eloquently discussed? I would also like to ask the Minister about the fight against organised crime in the Netherlands and at European level. We in the Chamber have previously expressed our concern through the De Vries motion for a resolution about the very serious nature of organized crime. On 26 May 2015, the Chamber also unanimously called for a drastic intensification of the fight against it. I would like to hear from the Minister what the government's efforts are to implement this motion and what its impact has been so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u8	I would also like to mention the question of subsidised legal aid, which has already been mentioned. We have recently received the report from the Wolfsen Commission on the causes of the cost increases in the system of subsidised legal aid and the renewal of that system. This investigation has been promised to this Chamber in response to the motion-Scholten and motion-Franken adopted in the 2015 budget. Almost at the same time, the Committee on Legal Aid financed by the Dutch Order of Lawyers issued its report. Both reports contain interesting insights, conclusions and recommendations. During the presentation of the report by the Wolfsen Committee to the Chamber, the Minister informed the Chamber that he would like to examine carefully not only the report but also the views of interested parties in the field on the results of the investigation and the report of the Committee of Inquiry set up by the NOVA. The PvdA Group welcomes this broad orientation of the Minister. On behalf of my group, I would like to inform the Minister that we expect him, on this basis, to come forward with proposals for a truly sustainable system of subsidised legal aid that takes account of the interests of those seeking legal aid and the interests of legal aid providers. We will therefore closely monitor the Minister's follow-up to this issue. Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to ask the Minister about legal aid at the ZSM sites. Following the final report, the Minister presented Working Method ZSM and Legal Assistance in his letter of 12 November. informed the House of Representatives that it was for him that the ZSM procedure should be accompanied by adequate legal aid to suspects. We share this point of departure, which is why I am giving this subject special attention. The Minister is still considering how to extend the possibility of legal aid in structural terms. I've received signals from the field. There are lawyers and OM completely on the same side. That adequate legal aid in the ZSM mode is urgently needed and cannot wait any longer. The question of the PvdA Group to the Minister is therefore whether this legal aid can be introduced in the light of the legal importance and the successful pilots in the very short term, preferably on a perimeter basis. We await the Minister's answers with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u9	Mr. Chairman. L'histoire se répète. History repeats itself, and that is not always pleasant. Last year, when this Chamber dealt with the budget of Security and Justice for 2015, Paris and the world were shocked by terrorist attacks in Paris. Seventeen innocent French citizens were ritually slaughtered. Just two days before in this Chamber, the respective spokesmen expressed their disgust and sympathy, millions of people declaimed: your suis Charlie. Now, less than a year later, we're back in this room. Now we are talking about the budget of Security and Justice for 2016 and, like last year, we are doing so for a few days this time after terrorist attacks in France. There's a difference. The most recent attacks were ten times more powerful, with nearly ten times as many deaths. And what can happen in France, of course, can happen in the Netherlands. My contribution will therefore concentrate mainly on security issues. My group colleague, Mrs Van Weerdenburg, will concentrate her contribution on questions relating to the government's asylum policy. Both in the First Chamber and in the Second Chamber it has already been found that the initially submitted budget of Security and Justice for 2016 was irresponsible: too little money for too many responsibilities. Important responsibilities because the foundation of our democratic rule of law is the certainty that citizens have that the government guarantees the security of citizens. The VVD and the PvdA have, after that parliamentary roaring for the side of the other elite parties, put some patches on the most visible wounds, then a little dealt and wheeled in the back rooms and, behold, a majority is for a still flawed budget of Security and Justice. The PVV seems to be the only party in this Chamber to vote against this budget because we are telling the truth. That truth is uncomfortable, but that truth needs to be told. After all, no stumbling block should be laid for a blind man. This budget does not provide enough security for the citizens of the Netherlands. With this budget the VVD colour confesses. The VVD is no longer the self-appointed party of the criminals, because the VVD and the PvdA refuse to make sufficient resources available to make the streets of the Netherlands safe. Isn't there enough money? Yes, only the VVD does not allocate that available money to those parts that actually provide more security. The same applies to resources. The police in particular, but actually the Ministry of V and J in general, in 2015 was losing a lot of attention and capacity to mastering and putting under the carpet the great misery that the lucky seekers............................................................................................................................................................................... This will certainly be the case in 2016. The police are also fully preoccupied with the reorganisation. The capacity of the police is so great that the Justice Council sees a significant reduction in the number of criminal cases still to be dealt with. Suddenly there are fewer criminals in the Netherlands? No. Is there less crime in the Netherlands? No. Is the Netherlands safer than last year? No. But the police are too busy with other things. She doesn't get her core job: catching bad guys. I would like to hear from the Minister whether he recognizes the Council's comments on justice and whether there are indeed fewer suspects in court, simply because the police are too busy reorganising and the problems of asylum flows. At the end of last week, the police declared EUR 10 million for expenses incurred in the reception of refugees in our country at the Ministry of V and J. The identification of asylum seekers, but also the guarantee of security, has so far cost EUR 10 million. That amount doesn't even include the use of manpower. Is it true that 10 million euros could have been at least four extra agents per city every year? The Netherlands is a crime paradise. Even in 2016, if caught, crooks will live in prisons in greater luxury than our elders in the nursing homes, as long as they are not closed by the VVD and PvdA executives. Why doesn't the minister take care of the prisons? His ministry needs money and crooks don't deserve luxury. The Moroccan street terrorists from a few years ago have now become top criminals. The chance of getting caught in the Netherlands is sadly low. Henk and Ingrid are robbed, abused and robbed in their own homes, and the perpetrators have nothing to fear. With their stolen loot, they quietly cross the open borders, because those borders are still not closed and are still not controlled. Our security services and our government, which we have given citizens the mandate to guard our security, have no idea who enters our country and who goes out. A hardworking Dutchman who drives a few kilometers too fast, yes for him or her the chance of getting caught is almost 100%. As long as the top criminal, the black man, the thief, the rapist, the illegal terrorist doesn't run too fast, he can go on in this country for years. It's a horrible shame. Speaking of the terrorist, are our rulers from an egg or something? They must also know that bringing tens of millions of migrants into Europe has also imported terrorism. It is incomprehensible to my group that the Minister is not using this 2016 budget to take drastic anti-terrorist measures to protect us, our children and our grandchildren. Cops need to be trained differently. They have to be armed otherwise. The 9 millimeter doesn't stop IS-kalashnikov. Can the Minister clarify why the KMar is at Schiphol Airport with heavier weapons than, for example, in the streets of The Hague? The media reported that the mayor of The Hague, Jozias van Aartsen, found weapons undesirable in the street scene. Does the Minister recognize this Van Aartsen ruling? Are the KMar and the citizens they are supposed to protect not unnecessarily at risk now that they are underarmed to carry out their important tasks? The Special Interventions Service needs to be expanded and the anti-terror legislation needs to be adapted. The ancient Romans already knew: si vis pacem, para bellum, they said; if you want peace, prepare yourselves for war. Does the Minister really believe that the current legislation adequately protects the Dutch from terrorism? If not, what will he propose in 2016 to better protect Dutch people from these threats? Can the Minister state what measures this cabinet has taken in the past year to combat terrorism and what measures are still lacking? Does the Minister consult with a country such as Israel, which has been dealing almost every day with the same murderers since its inception and has had a lot of experience in combating terrorism over the last 70 years? From my introduction it can be distilled that terrorism will not disappear by itself. This cabinet will have to take serious anti-terrorist measures. We Dutch deserve safety. In 2016, will the Minister adequately protect and arm our brave police officers, who are at risk of their own lives patrolling the streets of the Netherlands? The mistakes made, among other things, by the Public Prosecutor's Office are a major concern for my group. Nearly 12,000 convicts didn't take DNA, but they should have. This includes dozens of murderers and sex offenders. They've been able to kill and rape more because of those mistakes. In this context, the question is to the Minister how he can promise to get better. How does he think that the summit of the National Police, which has so far proved unable to complete the reorganisation in time and within the budget, can do so now? What are these same people going to do differently in the next few years? Why are the people who have devised the wrong plans and who have not carried out them properly not replaced? Are they in a position to do what they have clearly been unable to do in the years to come? What else are these people gonna do in the next few years? I see the Minister stays in good spirits. I would sweat my ass off if I were him, because this budget is an attack on the safety of the Netherlands. I know that, you, Chairman, know that, and the Minister knows it secretly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u10	Mr. Chairman. On top of the little rosy image that my colleague Markuszower has just sketched, there is yet another asylum tsunami of unprecedented proportions. Many tens of thousands of lucky seekers have now crossed our border and there is not much good to expect for 2016. And that under the direction of a secretary of state of VVD-huis, although the difference between the PvdA and the VVD is hardly visible nowadays. After all, both parties share the idea that we have a humanitarian duty to accommodate half the Muslim world here at the expense of the Dutch people. All kinds of offices, nursing homes and other buildings are converted into temporary shelters for asylum seekers throughout the Netherlands, with recreation rooms, cooking facilities and everything. If only this cabinet did so much effort for the elderly or students who would also be thrilled with such a place. The Secretary of State keeps saying that he understands that people don't like getting an asylum centre or a reception location on their streets. It is not about liking or not, it is about people lying awake at night because they no longer dare to let their teenage daughter go down the street alone for fear of being harassed by frustrated asylum seekers. In Amstelveen the asylum shelter even comes in the middle of the Jewish district. Imagine that. From boredom hanging out on the streets, frustrated Syrian asylum seekers who have Jewish children on their way to school, what could go wrong there? Wait, Minister Asscher will have them sign a participation statement and then everything will be fine. Incrediblely naive and dangerous, moreover. To the legitimate concerns of the residents, who are already dealing daily with extra security at schools and synagogues, the municipality says that it has asked the COA to house a mixed group. In other words, the commonly used story: don't worry, there are families with children coming in. But those photogenic escape families with children are extremely scarce, so scarce that we are already importing them from abroad. Last week a number of them arrived at Schiphol Airport which had flown here at a special invitation from the Netherlands. The families first had to be extended in the picture and in the newspaper, because that keeps the story going. However, the figures do not lie. Of the asylum seekers entering the Netherlands and Europe, 73% are men. The images from Eastern Europe where hordes of young Muslim men screaming Allah akbar, fighting the police, make every sane person shivering on their backs. Previous warnings that ISIS would send its fighters with the flow of refugees, were described by this Secretary of State as unlikely. Now it appears that at least two of the attackers in Paris have indeed entered Europe as a Syrian refugee, says the Secretary of State that he said that we cannot rule that out. We've seen that. The PVV Group is very concerned about safety in the Netherlands. Just two weeks ago, an eighteen-year-old Syrian declared on an asylum-seekers' boat in Zaandam that he is an IS fighter. How many are there in the Netherlands now? A new attack is only a matter of time. As long as this cabinet keeps the borders wide open, it is partly responsible for the innocent citizens who will die. The VVD should be ashamed of itself. She probably thinks that the voter will have forgotten all this by the time there are elections to the House of Representatives again, but I assure you, the azc on the corner where they drive along on their way to the polling station will remind them. The Netherlands has now become a large asylum seekers' centre. In almost every municipality there is a reception location and in most cases against the will of the residents. There are losers in this policy. Citizens are awake because of the concerns about their safety and that of their children, and the asylum seekers are not satisfied either. According to them it is too cold and wet in the Netherlands, in the woods it smells like wood and the wifi with internet connection is usually not fast enough either. As if all that wasn't bad enough, they get a cheese sandwich every morning. Pure torture. They have even called on the National Ombudsman. This is, as the English say so beautifully, beyond parody. The end of this shelter is far from coming. The Secretary of State has more than doubled the expected inflow for next year, but he also indicates that this is a gamble and that this number may be higher or lower. We don't know; it's unpredictable. We will fix any additional financial setbacks with the Spring Note. Nice and easy. The cabinet long maintained that the solution to this crisis had to be found at EU level, that hard work was being done and that a solution was in sight. That so-called solution is now in the form of a deal with Turkey. Dictator Erdogan sees his blackmail policy best awarded: EUR 3 billion European taxpayers' money, visa-free travel for Turks and the accession negotiations are resumed. Whether we are bitten by the cat or the dog, the Islamization of the Netherlands will permeate in exchange for all these promises, for example that Turkey will close the borders and that the refugee flow to Europe will dry up. Until Erdogan wants more money or comes up with something else. Then he opens the border again and starts the misery again. Hungarian Prime Minister Orbán recently said that during the negotiations with Erdogan Angela Merkel promised to resettle another 500,000 so-called refugees from Turkey in Europe. The Secretary of State denies this: there would never have been any mention of numbers. Is that why he dares to put his hand in the fire? "We decide something. We'll bring that in and wait some time to see what happens. If there is no misfit, no rebellion breaks out of it. Most people don't understand what's definitely going on.Then we go a little further. Step by step until there is no return possible." This was said by Jean-Claude Juncker, former President of the Eurogroup and the current President of the European Commission, in 1999. Now, sixteen years later, it seems that the strategy has not changed. At the beginning of the summer, the EU Member States were told to redistribute 40,000 so-called refugees among themselves. In September another 120,000 were added. Thus, according to the Hungarian Prime Minister Orbán, a secret agreement has been made with Turkey to take over 500 000 refugees. This happens step by step until there is no return possible, until our beautiful Netherlands has changed unrecognizably and here too the grim wind of the Sharia blows. I will conclude with a compelling appeal to both regiments: resist. Resistance to the PvdA. The Netherlands has suffered enough under the politically correct madness policy of the Rutte II cabinet. Pull the plug.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u11	Madam President. The year 2015 has shown a number of remarkable developments in the field of V and J. First of all, the Franken motion, which was adopted in this Chamber in January when the 2015 budget was discussed, is striking. With this motion, the majority of this Chamber noted that the Chamber was deeply concerned about the budget. It was found that the proposed cuts had led to an unacceptable deterioration of the legal aid financed and thereby to an undermining of the rule of law. The Court thus asked the government to refrain from the proposed cuts of EUR 85 million and to seek alternative financing options. The second striking fact was the fact that the Minister of V and J understood that something had to change, although he refused to carry out the said motion. This led to the setting up of the Wolfsen Commission, with the task of investigating the causes of the cost increases in the system of subsidised legal aid. Apparently, the Minister was already so convinced of his own right in advance, that the possibility that no cost increase would be determined at all did not occur to him. I shall come back to the Wolfsen Committee's report later. The third notable fact was the warning given to the government by a large majority in this Chamber at the General Political Reviews with the Brinkman/Kox motion of 13 October. That warning to the government certainly didn't fall out of the sky. Over the last few years, this Chamber has repeatedly given the government considerable difficulty in cutting back on the rule of law. I would like to point out the following motions: the Kox motion of 29 October 2013, the Francs motion of 11 March 2014, the Ruers/Strik motion of the same date, the Kox motion of 14 October 2014 and the aforementioned Franks motion of 13 January this year. In addition, this Chamber's objections arise not only from the cuts, but also from the government's lack of understanding of the fact that we can sink through the floor in guaranteeing the rule of law. Two years ago, in a hearing in this Chamber, the Dutch legal court showed that the government's idea that the rule of law would be a "ordinary" part of the budget is incorrect. The motion of 13 October, with the explanation given, was, in my opinion, a political one. This Chamber informed the government that it was necessary to take account of the fact that the whole budget could be rejected if the government fully maintained its intention to maintain the cuts in the budget of V and J. In addition, this Chamber added that it would be wise policy if the government did business with the House of Representatives. And behold, the government took the tarpaulin. And that wasn't a little bit, it was a lot. In the 2015 budget, the debate focused on an amount of 28 million, and now the government was ready to put a figure of 215 million on the table in a structural manner for 2016. The conclusion is that the majority in this Chamber has thus achieved a fair victory. There's more. The bill for the increase of registry fees has been repealed and the legislative proposal on the own contribution in criminal proceedings is also being amended. In addition, a number of important motions have been adopted in the Lower House. This has also been mentioned before. This is, for example, a motion that states that sufficient resources must be made available for the primary tasks of the police, the motion that provides the means to keep open courts in the shrinking regions and the motion that there should be sufficient resources for additional tasks of the public prosecutor. It is true that the government has asked for time and has been given the Spring Note to put these resources on the table, but we certainly assume that the government is wise enough to carry out these motions. That would mean that there would be about 150 million more. In short, this is a victory for those parties who are committed to upholding the rule of law and who are therefore putting an end to the cuts that have already done far too much damage in recent years. Madam President, can we sit back now? Absolutely not. Anyone who has already discussed all the problems in the budget and takes note of the many social problems in the areas of V and J must come to the conclusion that the government must come to terms with them at the beginning of next year. We assume that the government will not complain that the money is gone. In this context, I would like to hear from the Minister that he will actually take care of the money that is needed. Wasn't the image of V and J rosy in early 2015, then the situation quickly went from bad to worse. Others, like the first four speakers today, have given many examples. I would like to mention a few which, in my opinion, are typical. It's messages that come from publications in newspapers, trade journals and magazines. In January, police officers find that the minister doesn't know what's going on in the workplace. In the same month, the NRC says: "Understandings are likely to become a block of business." In February, you can read about the investigation by the Attorney General of the Supreme Court into the use of a criminal order by the D.A. The D.A.'s office doesn't seem to take it so closely with the law. In March, the general blanket of the Dutch Bar Association warns that the cut in legal aid is beginning to look like a roller coaster. Jensma writes in the NRC in March: "Is the rule of law in the VVD in good hands?" In April we read that the Minister distorted the facts about the growing of pot. Then in July there is Professor Ahsmann's article: "KEI, stoneware or quicksand?" In July, the NRC reported on the seven plagues of the Ministry of Security and Justice, on a failing ICT system, on demotivated agents and on the dejuriation of the official summit. The TREMA magazine reports in September: "The report has been prepared and weighed to show that serious errors are being made in the practice of the Public Prosecutor's decision." In September, the court's-Hertogenbosch announced to the lawyer that the delays have become so great that new pleas can only be dealt with in 2017. Others have already pointed out that the same may be happening in other courts. I'd like to add: you'll only be a lawyer, get a letter like that, and you'll have to explain to your client that there's nothing to expect for the first year and a half. In fact, I believe that this has exceeded a limit that should not be exceeded. Right must be done in good time, not in one and a half or two years' time. I'll follow up on my list. In September, before the Court of Justice, the Council announced that "to meet these challenges" would not be possible "without difficult and painful decisions." In October, the NRC writes: "And now the judges are furious" about the reorganisation of justice and the cuts in the courts. The NRC also writes a month later about a "Ministry that keeps playing stupid." Then comes Professor Veraart's important contribution to the Gebrandy debate. Jensma writes a little later in the NRC: "Policy and OM don't have the power anymore." In November, the NSA also wrote about the budget: "The incumbent magistrate is under such pressure that it cannot deliver the quality for which it should stand," "The OM was and is faced with immense austerity," "The police are suffering from structural deficits" and "Advocates who provide funded legal aid have difficulty keeping their heads above water." I'm almost there. I'll be in November. The Court of Justice says that the workload in the case-law is a major problem. Several studies showed that. The NRC writes in the same month in the article "Great austerity, small relief" that the money is scarce on Security and Justice and there are plenty of problems. And then there's the article "Against light." Others have already mentioned it. It is a remarkable article by nine judges of the Central Netherlands court. I'm here to talk about that. And finally, in December, the NRC first writes "Striking through austerity court, now the money." And then the final conclusion in the NRC's comment: "Budget of Justice remains a crackling vehicle for the time being." A short summary of some remarkable articles on the precision of Security and Justice. Meanwhile, on 9 March of this year, the Minister and Secretary of State for Security and Justice resigned and we received a new Minister and Secretary of State. Welcome! So the image of V and J is anything but flourishing. Almost all of the essential parts have major problems in terms of quality and money, with the important cause of years of austerity. It is, of course, quite right that the government, partly under pressure from this Chamber, has already allocated an additional 250 million to V&J, but we cannot ignore the fact that this amount is too little and is available at least half a year late, because the critical border has unfortunately already been crossed in many parts of the ministry. That brings me to one part of that and that is a very bad picture. Others have outlined that better than I have. I would like to draw attention to one aspect, which is the rule of law. An essential aspect of justice is the trias politician and within it the position of the judiciary. In this context, I would like to refer to the remarkable article of the nine judges of the Central Netherlands Court of 20 November. This is an opinion document in which, following a multi-annual plan, the group of judges expresses concerns about developments in the case law. They explain these concerns in that article on the basis of five problems. I quote, as others have done, a single piece from that article: "The multi-annual plan developed under the greatest secrecy assumes that the judiciary must make substantial savings. The case law has long reached the bottom and further cuts are unacceptable. The Court of Justice should not have accepted the austerity mandate and should give it back. The responsibility for quality felt by the judge cannot always be fulfilled at the hearing, because he does not have sufficient room for manoeuvre. It is noteworthy that the objective of the revision of the judicial card was to improve quality. However, with the increase in scale, increasing standardisation creates a situation in which quality is put under greater pressure. The judges and staff of the court do not feel represented by the council and the relationship between the judge/staff and the courts is also under pressure." And then the final quote: "A large advance is made on the expected result of KEI. Unfortunately, there are no historical examples that justify this optimism. Our experience is that automation processes in justice are difficult and slow." I can add an important fact to that. The judges I just spoke about recently sent a survey to all 2,500 judges in the Netherlands on the basis of the NJB article. The response to this survey is remarkable. A very high response limit has been reached in a short time. Almost 900 judges have now expressed their opinion in response to the survey and I have heard that the vast majority of respondents agree with the criticism expressed in the article in Oppositelicht. In my view, this is an unmistakeable signal from the judges to the legislator, the Minister for Security and Justice and the Council for Justice. I would like to hear the Minister's opinion and reaction to it. We must be aware that we are dealing here with judges who are generally known as very loyal to the Minister and to the rule of law. A similar development can be seen in the erosion of the criminal's function by moving the criminal's sentence to the administration. Professor Bovend's article in the NJB of 27 November, entitled "Remove the domain of the judge in the rule of law," makes that clear. I would like to hear whether the Minister shares the view of this author. Another poignant point is the cut in legal aid. The reports of the Wolfsen Commission and the Barkhuijsen Commission show that the Minister's claim that there would be a continuous increase in the amount of legal aid financed is incorrect. For this reason, in the opinion of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, the cuts in legal aid introduced by means of an AMvB on 1 February this year should be immediately reversed. In this connection, I would like to hear from the Minister whether he is prepared to pay the amount related to this cut from the 138 million reserve mentioned in the adjusted budget, as mentioned in the letter of amendment of 26 November. In view of the fact that the Minister did not carry out the Franken motion of this Chamber of 13 January 2015 in a manner contrary to democracy, it would be a credit to this Minister if he did so and obtained the necessary amount from the aforementioned reservation. But even more important than the reversal of austerity is in our view that the Minister acknowledges and states that citizens' access to justice and justice is an untouchable principle in our democratic rule of law, even if it means increasing expenditure on legal aid and the judiciary. The Group of the Party of European Socialists has come to the conclusion that all the cuts have made it to the bottom and that there have been gaps in the building of the rule of law. We therefore believe that recourse to funded legal aid should not be restricted for purely financial reasons. I would like to hear whether the Minister supports that view. I would like to point out that if citizens no longer have effective access to justice and justice and society in a slippery area, in which there is no longer a right, but the power of the strongest and the boldest, which would be the end of the democratic rule of law. Once we lose the rule of law, we will only realize how costly that loss is. Against this background, I find it worrying that, despite the above, the government in the current 2016 budget is again cutting back on law and the rule of law, including the main bodies such as police, prosecutors, judiciary and legal aid. We are very concerned about the content of the successive budgets of V and J, including the budget before us. After all, it shows how fragile the rule of law is and how little serious the government is about it. Finally, I would like to draw attention to an issue which, at first sight, may not be directly appropriate to the discussion of the V and J budget, but which I believe is of great importance. I mean the state of the rule of law. The concerns about this are not directly left or right, nor are they from today or yesterday, but they are serious concerns. I think that I can best refer to the recent statements of our former President, Mr Tjeenk Willink, who already mentioned others. According to him, the balance within the trias politician is threatened. He argued that the institutions of the rule of law should be maintained, but noted that institutions would be affected, in particular through reorganisations and cuts, including in the judiciary. The ultimate objective is lost, namely to improve the quality of judicial work. Tjeenk Willink also strongly criticizes the role of the Council of Justice, which, according to him, does the dirty work for the Minister. He literally writes that. Speaking of the Leeuwarder manifesto, Tjeenk Willink said that he was pleased about this, but that in his opinion the discussion was too little about the content of the judicial function and that the manifesto did not yield enough. He also criticises the fact that in the administration the emphasis is on financial management and decisiveness, which has knocked the trias politicians out of control. To the question of who should raise the larger issues that determine the content of the judicial function, Tjeenk Willink answers that there is no permanent forum for such substantive questions. I think this is an important observation. He added that the Council was part of the problem for the case-law and that the lack of willingness of judges to act was undoubtedly an explanatory factor in the absence of a substantive counterweight. Against this background and in the light of what I have said, I would like to suggest to the Chamber that it examine whether there is a task for this Chamber to obtain a better picture of the problems that threaten the state of the rule of law. In my opinion, this Chamber could use the means of parliamentary scrutiny. I would like to hear the reaction of the other groups. We are always looking forward to the Minister's reply with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. These times require a great deal of our rule of law. Our society is spooked by a near attack and the sense of threat continues. This calls for a resilient government that not only protects us, but also the values of the rule of law. The global refugee crisis leads to more refugees applying for protection in the Netherlands. They too appeal to our rule of law. The judicial chain is the backbone of our rule of law, you might say, but that is precisely where trust is not very great at the moment. In almost every part of that chain there are structural problems, and the many incidents that come out confirm the shortcomings and the image of an unmanageable ministry. It drags from crisis to crisis. These crises are a sign of the fragile state of the rule of law. This inevitably also leads to problems at the top of the ministry. Directors seem to be out of control and are in political trouble. Again this week, the House of Representatives is holding an urgent debate on this matter. This harms not only individuals, but also confidence in politics and public administration. This will affect society as a whole as a whole with unmanageability and lack of transparency. The Minister still has little insight, let alone solutions. What is the Minister's analysis and how is he going to structurally strengthen the chain? While the Ministry has been developed with the administration of the police, based on the idea that this would improve the cooperation between police and prosecutors, both chain partners are now under attack. Shouldn't we conclude that the transfer experiment failed? Stability and quality in a rule of law are poorly related to experimenting with public tasks, as it turns out again. The focus on security could compromise the other key tasks of the Ministry; for example, legal certainty, the protection of the individual against a arbitrary, negligent or discriminatory government, fundamental rights and access to justice. After all, justice is much more than security alone. The budget would have been an opportunity for the cabinet to show the urgency with which it addresses the problems at the ministry, but the original proposal proved to be the opposite. Only after a lot of political pressure, including from this Chamber, has a repair been carried out. My group welcomes this, but still has questions, such as what the extra money is spent on and at the expense of what. The most important question is whether the problems have really been solved with 250 million in structural terms. What is really needed to make the entire judicial chain robust and effective again? The General Court concludes that the relationship between ambitions and the budget is distorted. According to the Court of Auditors, the question is whether the new planning of the reorganisation of the police is feasible now, despite the doubling of the budget for this purpose. I'd like a response. The police are under a lot of pressure. The reorganisation sucks away a lot of energy and human power from regular work, and it seems to be a long time before the reorganisation starts supporting the police rather than the other way around. In five years, the police organization is shrinking by 10%. That reduction of 5,000 formation sites is palpable somewhere, for example among the district agents that we now need so badly to combat exclusion and radicalisation. I see the Minister shaking no and I would like to hear a response to that. Investing in detective tasks is urgently needed, just look at the slim search rate of 19. How does the Minister intend to strengthen these crucial tasks in the current context? The cooperation between the D.A. and the police, but also within the Public Prosecutor's Office itself, should be really more efficient and effective, is the cri de coeur of every investigation report. Quality improvement also requires financial investment. Does the Minister believe that with the extra 15 million, the desired quality impulse has been secured? And what exactly is the purpose of this money? The case law also states that a required level of quality requires a certain investment. The sites that were nominated for closure have been saved, but not yet the quality of the justice itself. Mr Ruers referred to it extensively: judges have sounded the alarm clock and say that the soil has been reached. For years they have been facing too high a workload. This creates risks for access to justice and the quality and speed of judgments, but also for independent judgment. The additional investment of 15 million in structural terms is welcome, but the Council itself calculated for the case-law that this is half of what is needed to bring the case-law to an acceptable level. I'd like a response to that. Furthermore, we would like to endorse the request of the VVD Group to include in the evaluation of the Judicial Card Review Act the mandate and the role of the Council in the case-law. We discussed access to legal aid in detail at the beginning of this year in the budget debate. It is still an important concern. The debate and the accepted motions have resulted in two reports on this matter. Both reports show that short-term changes in the funded legal aid are undesirable and may even have an adverse effect. Fortunately, the Minister has agreed not to take any action until the reports have been discussed with this Chamber. Following Mrs Beuving, I would also ask the Minister to take as a starting point the guaranteed access to justice in the development of this vision. What does the freeze on the austerity that has been introduced this year mean, among other things, for the allocation of points and the level of compensation? Why isn't it frozen as well? This Chamber called for this at the beginning of this year. What both reports also make clear is that public policy itself affects an increase or decrease in the use of legal aid. This makes sense for the rights of the Registry and its own contributions to those seeking justice, but it also applies to legislation in criminal law or social security law. The legislator thus also has its own hands in the increasing appeal to lawyers and the increasing judicialisation, which is not always the same. And that is when the Minister is looking for dejuriation and easy-to-understand dispute resolution. What conclusion does the Minister draw from this for future legislation? In future, will we be able to understand the possible effects of legislative proposals in this area? All these problems in the chain and the reaction of the cabinet raise the question: what standards does the cabinet apply for the quality of our rule of law and what do we have left for them? What testing framework has the Cabinet developed for this purpose? The rule of law should never be treated as a lockpoint and I would therefore like to hear a view from the Minister on the requirements of an adequate rule of law. In this context, I would also like to respond to Mr Ruers. I think the First Chamber has already started the discussion on the rule of law in recent years. We have organised good expert meetings on this, and I believe that it could indeed be on our way to continue with this, precisely to ensure that there is more reflection on the state of the rule of law and its development. So I agree with the SP Group's call. Another element of the rule of law is that citizens should also be able to invoke human rights treaties themselves if they believe that the government does not comply with these treaties towards them. To ensure this, the government has signed treaties years ago that recognise the individual right of complaint of the UN Convention on Cultural, Economic and Social Rights and the Convention on the Rights of the Child. However, like the previous cabinet, the cabinet is infinitely inclined to allow these treaties to be ratified by us. What the hell is going on? Does the cabinet have so little confidence in its own compliance with these treaties that it fears an individual complaint? What is becoming a constitutional problem in itself is that the cabinet has been ignoring a motion from this Chamber on rapid ratification for almost two years now. Despite countless reappearances, the cabinet is silent. Uneasy, Mr. Chairman. A cabinet should carry out an adopted motion in principle. If it does not, it will at least have to answer for this. That is why I am asking the Minister, Mr President, for a new round, a new opportunity to present a text and an explanation in this debate. In ratifying the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, the Netherlands has become more or less a fence. Even now, the ratification proposal is not accompanied by an ambitious plan of action to become a truly inclusive society. When will the cabinet come up with an effective implementation of the treaty? And when will it sign the optional protocol for an individual right of complaint under this Convention? After years of small numbers of asylum seekers, an increasing number of refugees have called for protection and reception over the last two years. It requires a strong effort from the Secretary of State and especially from the IND and the COA to deliver what is required. We congratulate them on all the effort they make for that. Yet we see the waiting times rising. For asylum seekers, this means not only longer uncertainty, but also longer waiting for them to bring their family members to the Netherlands. That is their greatest concern, because their family members often live in poor and unsafe conditions. Does the Secretary of State see this and what does he do to keep the waiting times as short as possible? A large proportion of current asylum seekers come from Syria, Eritrea and Iraq, and will therefore be allowed to stay. However, they should not prepare for Dutch society, despite a motion which has been accepted with broad support in the House of Representatives. The government not only does not offer language or orientation lessons itself, it also prevents third parties from teaching language and distributing study material at different locations. This affects fundamental rights such as freedom of education and expression. Moreover, my group believes that you should welcome such citizens' initiatives rather than slow them down. Does the Secretary of State recognize this local abstinence and he disapproves of it with us? Is he willing to admit that there is room for private parties to teach language at all locations? One of the locations where this problem played is Heumensoord. The circumstances there confirm that large-scale reception is not preferable. Emergency breaks the law, of course. But my group is getting reports that the COA is refusing municipal offers for smaller-scale care. Can the Secretary of State explain to us what's going on? If large-scale reception is chosen for financial reasons, should we not invest more in reception conditions? This is important for asylum seekers, for their ability to integrate and for the support of the environment. I'd like to receive a response. My group has already asked questions in the OS budget and in the General Financial Reviews on how to cover the costs of additional asylum reception. My group does not want this to be at the expense of the already low OS budget. Is the cabinet prepared to consider alternative funding or otherwise increase the ODA budget? At EU level, agreements have been reached on the redistribution of asylum seekers from Greece and Italy, but the actual transfer remains hopelessly behind. Only a few weeks ago, the Netherlands made the first 50 places available. Other Member States are also lagging very much behind. Can the Secretary of State explain why it's taking so long? It has already been calculated that, if this pace continues, the 160,000 refugees were not redistributed until 2050. What measures does the European Union take to speed it up? Is it true that Frontex currently determines who is to be transferred to an asylum procedure or to the UNHCR? Anyone who asks for asylum should be judged by officials trained to do so. The hotspots are in bad shape, there are no conditions and it looks like everyone is waiting for each other. Should Member States not make more national decision-makers available to support these processes? This should apply not only to hotspots but also to asylum procedures in Greece. They come from the ground in a very slow way, while thousands of people depend on it, because they are not allowed to travel. It is still a strange situation that certain asylum seekers are prevented from travelling, while the Human Rights Court finds that the human rights of asylum seekers in Greece are being violated. I'd like to receive a response to this. With regard to the agreement with Turkey, the Secretary of State has answered a number of questions in writing from my group. I thank him once again for the comprehensive answer to all the questions put by our Chamber. I would like to go into one more answer. It concerns the desire to send refugees back to Turkey as a safe third country, where they do not have access to the labour market. Access to education is also problematic. However, the Refugee Convention does give them the right to work and education. We therefore believe that this is a requirement to define a country as a safe third country. We therefore believe that Turkey does not meet the criteria. However, the Secretary of State simply states that Turkey must fulfil its obligations under the Refugee Convention. But the problem is that Turkey has only recognised the Refugee Convention for European refugees, i.e. for refugees from Europe itself. Non-European refugees cannot invoke this Convention in Turkey. On what basis does the Secretary of State base the expectation that Turkey will comply with the Refugee Convention, when it has not committed itself to it in relation to this group?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u13	Mr. Chairman. The first lustrum was a fact this year: the Ministry of Security and Justice existed for five years. The Ministry started with great pretensions and with the recurring theme "crime fighting." But in the meantime, there were cuts, gaps in justice, police and justice, and reports of a lack of enforcers and detectives. Security was put first in the picture and, unfortunately, it did not benefit the rule of law. Today we are discussing the budget of this ministry. It is time to clean up and look at the real Ministry of Security and Justice, rather than the Ministry desired by the successive Cabinets-Rutte. There is another reason why this budget debate is important to my group. Over the last few weeks, we have had to reflect on the horrific events in Paris and unthinkable terrorist crimes elsewhere in the world. They're burned on our retina. These are uncertain times when it is important that our rule of law is robust and enforced. This means that the budget of this ministry is at the heart of the current situation. It is therefore a good thing that there is now a modified budget proposal. There is a whole range of concerns: the various incidents and the subsequent investigation reports, the re-evaluation of the National Police, the deficits in the justice system, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the probation, the figures that are missing the reality of the number of refugees, and thus are again a match for expected deficits in the COA and the IND. For all these concerns, my group continues to find the original Princess Day budget of this ministry wonderful. How could the Minister think that this was a response to the challenges for 2016? Why was the more solid analysis of the problems not available earlier? Has that been a form of wishful thinking? Or was that really based on models used within the Ministry to arrive at a budget? And what does that say about the budgetary system? I'd like to hear a reflection on this. We can say that the redevelopment of the Ministry of Justice has not worked out well. The Ministry of Security and Justice is aware of problems of governance and a difficult criminal justice chain. In addition, my group has repeatedly pointed out the constitutional argument that it is desirable to ensure the separation of powers and checks-and-balances. In fact, this House has also voted in a majority in the De Graaf motion. The Ministry is too much of a coagulation. The administration of the police has to go back to the Home Office. I am pleased that the largest party in our midst, the VVD, now shares this analysis. That is precisely why I ask the Minister whether he has already taken up the preparation for the restoration of checks-and-balances and the return of police management to the Ministry of the Interior. I'd like to hear how he informs the Chamber about the claims. I therefore hope that the Minister has already taken up the preparations. I would also like to congratulate him on taking up the warnings in this Chamber about the sustainability of his budget. The budget provides the beginning of a solution for the police, courts, prosecutors and probation. At the same time, however, it should be noted that the analysis of the problems is in fact limited to the list already mentioned in the newspapers in the previous weeks. Is that all over now? Is crisis management in order now? Or is the Spring Paper, or perhaps the 2017 Budget, another spade being pushed deeper? How does he inform the Chamber about this? As has been said, my group appreciates the Minister's commitment to additional investment on the most difficult points and to withdraw legislative proposals with insufficient support. But both with regard to investment and the cover found, there are questions. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats was very surprised that the major refugee problem was not translated into the budget. In the present proposal, this is the case for 2016. But that's only for 2016. Therefore, we would like to receive a more detailed explanation of this choice. And why does the cabinet choose to pay for the first-year reception of asylum seekers in a different way every year? It is also striking that the funds made available by the European Union for the redistribution of refugees are being used. That is very legitimate, if the Netherlands also abides by the agreements. Can the Secretary of State give us an up-to-date picture? What is his goal for 2016? Will the Netherlands take care of the entire appointment? Another important part in this coverage is a cash drawer. This is a bite from the future, while it has already been conservatively estimated as regards the influx of asylum seekers. My group is concerned that we are in agreement here with the deficits of the future cabinet. Can it be made clear what consequences the cash slide has and how it can be achieved in the coming years? The Autumn note talked about an additional investment for the IND, the COA and municipalities. But there's more involved. I am thinking of the police and the deficit of 10 million already noted by several colleagues. I'm thinking education and aid. Has this been taken into account? How is that reflected in the budget as far as the police are concerned? Or do we get that back at a later date and at what cost is that? The Christian Union appreciates the Secretary of State's commitment to providing adequate reception in the short term within the opportunities available. But we must also recognise that this problem will take longer. For example, there are traumatized children who still have to move too often and receive late education or help. There's gotta be another way. I ask the Secretary of State to make every effort to change this as soon as possible. What's his endeavor? Mrs Strik already talked about other forms that contribute to integration, for example language lessons. I agree with that. I come to justice. It cracks and it squeaks. The seven courts remain open, but the underlying consideration for the Christian Union Group is that of access to justice and proximity to justice. We think that's important. Does the Minister's proposal in the spring hold on to the location policy as agreed by the Judicial Card Review Act and the thought behind it? Before new choices are made, my group would first like to see an evaluation of this law, also because it aims to improve quality. I'd like to receive a commitment. Several colleagues have spoken about KEI, so I will pass on that, but I agree with their concerns. I would ask the Minister if he is convinced that the current measures and the solutions he envisages in the spring note make the case law definitive. I would like to receive a clear answer. It sounded so good when it became known in November that 250 million more structural and 310 million more for the coming year would be invested in addressing the problems of this ministry. But further study shows that the coverage of these millions is raging in many respects: a cash drawer, money from other ministries but not yet concretely made how and what, resources from the National Real Estate Company without understanding what the consequences are. That alone gives a messy picture. With regard to the estimated revenue from the settlements, my group is struggling, because this can never be the first target if the Justice Department starts prosecuting suspects. Now the Minister and the Minister of Finance have devised a structure that should address the legal objections. However, the financial objections remain. Previously, the Ministry received the entire proceeds at the end of the year. That windfall falls away and can therefore not be used for occasional setbacks that were there every year. With this measure, the Ministry is even tighter in its jacket and only on the budget there seems to be more room for manoeuvre. How does the Minister detect future setbacks? Are there any agreements on that? Given the large recent settlements, isn't this actually just a very lucrative deal for the Treasury Department? I like to hear it. The income model for stepping up the fight against fraud, investing €1 will yield €4 and will never be approved by the CPB when compiling the electoral programme. We thought it was a tip, but so far it's never worked. It's just €1 investment and €1 return. Does the Treasury guarantee this, too? Has the CPB already calculated the budget adjustment coverage proposal? All in all, the proposals for cover are very thin and a concern for my group. I look forward to a response from the Minister to the various parts. We know that part of the spring note is coming back, but we really need more solidity to see whether this coverage is feasible and does not raise insurmountable concerns in the future. Finally, a completely different subject. In my time as a council member in Utrecht I have seen how much it is a loss that there is still no Law regulation prostitution and combating abuses sex industry. That process has been going on for years. I know the role of this Chamber, but I also know that the legislative process has been very slow ever since. There are all kinds of reasons for this, but can the Minister promise that he will do everything he can to get this law passed by the States General in 2016 or at least to let the States General handle it? These are turbulent times for the Ministry of Security and Justice, and I fear they will not be over for the time being. It is good to see that the rulers are making efforts to improve the budget. Involuntarily one wonders: how much does it cost to bring justice, to find justice, to bring mercy to those who, for example, have fled because of war violence? These are impossible questions that cannot be answered with a financial sum. However, this treatment of the Justice budget is an attempt, in the knowledge that it is now about the numbers, but ultimately it is about bringing justice. This can only be done by the unbridled commitment of all those who serve the law, even here on the street: the police, the justice system, the prosecution and the probation. Finally, a cry of hearts. Bringing justice has a price that cannot be endlessly adjusted downwards. I see this letter of amendment as a prelude to a new strengthening of the rule of law. I therefore wish the rulers a great deal of wisdom in the coming year and look forward to the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u14	Mr. Chairman. Once upon a time, there was a gypsy. And that gypsy wanted to go to confession. The priest didn't trust it, so he asked him if he could mention God's commandments. To which the gypsy replied: "Well, sir, I would learn it by heart, but I heard through the tamtem that they will soon be abolished." This story is quoted in the recently retranslated book of José Ortéga y Gasset, The uprising of the masses. Now that the House of Representatives has already solved a number of concrete problems for us in the field of justice, I would like to build on this story and thus also prevent me from falling too much in repetition compared to points made by previous speakers. Last year, the First Chamber discussed the democratic rule of law and the importance of access to justice. But this raises an even more important question: what are the assumptions of our democratic rule of law? What is this democratic rule of law supporting? What's in it for him? Then it is not first of all about the level of registry rights, the number of courts, subsidised legal aid, careful procedures or representativeness. The question then is which people should shape the rule of law. What are they like in life, with what values, norms and ideals? What kind of education did they enjoy? What moral compass are they led by? The gypsy from the story tells about the abolition of God's commandments. That is, in fact, what has taken place in the Netherlands or in Western Europe over the past few decades. Many Christian values and norms have been more or less swept away, including from public life. Not because there was something better coming up. The former values and norms have been reduced without another morality appearing on the horizon. That has led to relief for a lot of people. Away with what reminds of a Christian past and of the authority of the church! Get rid of all those obligations and prescribed standards. Honestly, that relief is sometimes understandable. Although... Old Senator Hans Hillen rightly writes in his recent book "Forgotten God" that the government has now made more rules than the church has ever had. In that sense, the freedom-seeking citizen comes home from a cold carnival. Now that the phase of relief is behind us, perhaps the question should be asked: how to proceed? Isn't today's morals mainly a negative morality, the mirror image of the original Christian morality? Remembrances of the Christian past have been replaced by their counterparts. Then I think of the protection of life, the protection of what is holy, marriage, sexual morality or the place of Sunday. We remember that even a reference to the unmistakable and undeniable Christian past in the EU Constitution was taboo. We have focused on a new culture that seems beautiful, but does it have roots? This new, christian culture tarts and parasits on the ancient civilization that is being rejected at the same time. How long is that gonna be okay? Is our democratic rule of law conceivable without Christian morality? Gasset writes about the rebellion of the masses, a rebellion against the cultural, political and moral standards of the past. Don't get me wrong. Those crowds are definitely not wild hurdles. They are neat, intelligent people who do not want to conform to any specific morality. They are people who claim numerous rights, but want to have few obligations. They have neither faith in any god nor in any higher authority besides themselves. These people have no respect for history or for tried and tested institutions. They are driven by a desire for freedom and equality. However, they are also so free and unbound that they know themselves empty, writes Gasset. They are masters of all things, but they are not masters of themselves. These people lack direction and meaning. Gasset writes in that ominous thirties of the twentieth century to which that emptiness of the masses will lead. I quote his words: "Soon an overwhelming cry will sound, begging for something or someone who takes the lead, who can impose an assignment, occupation or obligation." Unfortunately, it turned out to be prophetic words. The classics already learn that a democracy can turn into an ochlocracy, in which society is ruled by the masses and chaos lurks. The current calls for binding referendums are a sign on the wall, as well as the addiction of characterless politicians to electoral investigations and opinion polls. Gasset warns of the rise of hyperdemocracy and politicians who promise everything, without being able to live up to it. Then, according to him, it is only a small step before the call sounds for a strong man who does put his house in order. "There's wieder da." This brings me to my question to the Minister. As I said, these Christian normative principles have been abolished. But what principles do our democratic rule of law uphold? What moral code carries our democracy? Isn't that a concern for the Minister? It is striking that as Chancellor Merkel explicitly called upon the German people to go to church more often and to read the Bible, to stand for Christian tradition and culture. Apparently, it is also possible to make such a call from a political point of view. Does the Minister not find it catchy to make such an appeal and is he prepared to discuss this with the churches as a person responsible for the relationship with the churches? If our rule of law is threatened from the inside or by a radical ideology from the outside, I wonder what binding and inspiring influence can then come from the purely secular ideal of life that seems to find its highest value in a free sexual morality and an unlimited right to hurt. I sincerely hope that the Minister can mention more than concert or terrace visits. I would like to make a few specific comments on the budget before us. The budget presented on Prince's Day was incomplete. That is striking, because it was clear to everyone that the budget for safety was too low. The SGP considers it an important step that the budget has changed. However, it remains unclear whether we will be able to move forward with this budget next year. The Lower House has adopted motions on the primary tasks of the police, the need for sufficient budget for the courts and on additional budget for the Public Prosecutor's Office for counter-terrorism, among other things. These motions make it clear that there will soon be another change, namely to the Spring Note. Why doesn't the Minister come up with the necessary repair? The SGP has the impression that there is too little understanding of what is really needed for security and for the maintenance of our rule of law. Partly this is due to unquantifiable tasks, for example with the police. Partly this has to do with political considerations: do you think there should be a court close to the citizen, or that there should also be a court at a greater distance? In any case, we would like the Minister to undertake to include in the Spring Paper clear reports which will make clear exactly what the threat of terrorism and the consequences of the large influx of asylum seekers have for the ordinary work of the police, the judiciary and the judiciary. Then we, members of the First Chamber, can get a clear picture of whether the budgets are in fact tailored to the tasks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u15	Mr. Chairman. I am the last speaker in the first term, scheduled for 12.30 p.m. Unfortunately, however, I cannot guarantee that I will fill that time. The 50PLUS Group has always argued that it is in favour of a humane policy for refugees, but that the contributions must be proportionate to the position of the Netherlands as a small and densely populated country. It is precisely in order to be able to pursue such a policy in the future that we need support from our predominantly well-intentioned people. We sometimes get the fear that the government is dealing too lightly with the real situation and that this may damage the confidence of the Dutch people. In this respect, we often find the government's argument vague and foggy. We shall give some examples of this. In the letter from Secretary of State Dijkhoff dated 11 December last. This Chamber states that this year's inflow estimate has been adjusted by 25,000 persons and that the estimate of the corresponding additional costs has been adjusted by more than 1 billion. To the question of what the adjustment will be for next year - starting in two weeks' time - the cabinet answers that it has no idea at all. The Secretary of State writes that there are developments that indicate that more asylum seekers can be expected in 2016 due to the trend and situation in the Middle East. However, a little rich is being reckoned, because there are European efforts aimed at limiting this influx. 50PLUS thinks that's a strange thing. If the number of refugees is increasing, this possibility is high, then preparatory measures will have to be taken. To what extent are they currently being taken? The letter states that in 2014 the chain-wide return amounted to almost 16,000 people and that the picture will be similar in 2015. Isn't this in the light of the greatly increased inflow on the low side? We also find the point of entry of potential terrorists into the Netherlands under-exposed. The tremendous flow of refugees is an almost uncontrollable cover. Can the government confirm that the Dutch people can go to sleep quietly? The Secretary of State writes that the establishment of internal border controls is not at issue for the Netherlands at the moment, but that the Royal Marechaussee has strengthened mobile surveillance. In the present situation, does the cabinet consider this to be a sufficient guarantee to the extent that it can be given? In all this, one of the important questions is whether the results of the regional elections which were announced in France last week and last Sunday will not affect the decision-making capacity in Europe. The strong support shown by the National Front can lead to less decision-making capacity in several countries. With 28% of the voters, this party was also the largest in France in the second round. All fear that the extreme right-wing parties will be helped to gain popularity. Other countries are examples of this. Think of Poland, Finland, Sweden and Denmark. And in our country, according to the polls, the PVV has grown strongly and would, if there were elections now, have become the largest party. Immigration and security were also at the heart of the regional elections in France. It is to be expected that these themes will dominate the political and electoral debate in the near future, regardless of whether they are wanted or not. In that light, the proposal presented by the European Commission today is interesting. It proposes that European border guards should take over the surveillance of EU external borders if the Member States concerned fail to do so. The European Commission considers this transfer of sovereignty to be necessary in order to curb the flow of refugees and to maintain free travel in the Schengen area. The Commission is putting forward these far-reaching proposals now that it is estimated that more than 1.5 million migrants have illegally entered the European Union this year. According to the Volkskrant, a new European Border and Coast Guard Agency will be provided with at least 1,500 border guards from the Member States, which are also obliged to supply the necessary equipment such as trucks, helicopters and boats. In addition, there will be 1,000 permanent employees and a budget of 280 million. Can the government confirm the accuracy of this report and give an impression of the possible consequences for the Netherlands? Insufficient surveillance of external borders and failure by Greece, among others, are the reasons why these measures should be taken. In the further written consultation on how to deal with the refugee crisis, Secretary Dijkhoff writes that there is a tension between the proper registration of asylum seekers at the external borders and the responsibility for assessing the asylum application, especially when there are large migratory flows. These are correct words for the fact that it is raging at the external borders of Greece and Italy in particular. The fear of unhindered entry of terrorists also underlines this. The Commission believes that it is time to take a decisive step towards integrated management of external borders. It is noteworthy that the new European Border Agency is given the power to send border guards if the surveillance of the external borders fails, even if this is against the will of the Member State concerned. The Commission's mandate can only be blocked by a qualified majority of the Member States. This raises the question of what consequences it can have if a particular country continues to strongly oppose it. We would like to hear the government's view on this point. The return of illegal migrants can also be arrested by the new agency at the request of a Member State, but this can also be done on its own initiative. How should we imagine that in the Netherlands? Once again, the question is what happens when Member States oppose, for example for electoral reasons. Later this week, European Heads of State or Government will discuss the plans and will have to prove that these proposals have sufficient support. Subsequently, both the Member States and the European Parliament will have to adopt the Commission's proposal. This may not be easy, but a magical tool to achieve it must not be forgotten: the Presidency of the Netherlands of the European Union as of 1 January 2016. We await with great interest the answer to our questions and the government's vision.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u16	Mr Nagel, you have kept your word: you have not been able to talk until 12.30 p.m., but I think everyone is happy that we have a slightly longer suspension for lunch. I note that no one else wishes to speak in the first term.
