ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-eerstekamer-12.u1	Madam President. I would like to thank you and the other Members for having been so eager to deal with this bill on such an important and interesting day for the Senate. The protection of personal data is at the heart of the government. He also cares about the cabinet. I've noticed that it's going to affect the First Chamber as well. The Court recognises the importance of improving the protection of personal data, including data protection online. The legislative proposal as it stands now has two main topics. On the one hand, there is a general obligation to report data leaks. In addition, there is an extension of the competence of the CPVO that will shortly, if the bill is accepted, be called the Dutch Data Protection Authority to impose an administrative fine in the event of a violation. Much has been said and written about both elements. That is right, because it is always seeking a balance between, on the one hand, the determination of legislation and, on the other hand, the scope of the protection of citizens' personal data. The new obligations aim to enable the Personal Data Authority, the current CBP, to act where necessary and, if information becomes out in the street or possibly in the wrong hands, to take measures as soon as possible to reduce leaks and reduce and reduce their impact. The Chamber has asked the necessary questions. There has also been an extensive exchange of questions and answers in writing. I would like to answer the questions here, first of all the question by Mrs Ter Horst, who did not question the validity of this obligation to notify, but wondered about all the other reporting obligations. I am not going to repeat the calculation that is possible here. A number of reporting obligations exist and some are in the process of being adopted. The number that is in the process is replacing existing ones. It is even true that this obligation of notification, which is in the process of being established, will in the long term be replaced by another one which is in the process of being established, namely at European level. It is not just cumulative, but I cannot argue that there are only three remaining; we are going to have a large number of reporting obligations. This is mainly due to an attempt to make some differentiation. It is about recognition that it does matter whether it is the government itself, a judicial service or the police, or a new online store. We impose a general reporting obligation on everyone, which is now before us. In addition, we say that more stringent requirements apply to specific sectors, such as telecoms or government. These sectors are therefore also subject to increased reporting obligations and to a different regime. So you have different duties; it is not a system with a general duty and derived duties. The reporting obligations have arisen over time. It is not entirely illogical that it has started in the telecommunications sector and that the reporting obligation has therefore been in place for some time. The Netherlands is not lagging behind in this area, but you can see that, over time, the need to regulate it more broadly, jointly and in a harmonised manner also arises at European level. This is another step in this direction. We are trying to streamline it, but we are not going to lower our own level of protection for the sake of harmonisation. Mrs Gerkens asked a question about the exact retention period. That's tricky. The deadline is sanctioned. Of course, it's not about keeping all that data or the privacy around all that data. It's really about the leak. We find it a little too skinny to get the idea put in place: I have reported it to the authority, who will keep it. You have your own responsibility to see back in the development of the company what the history was. Was it the first time? Is it a repeat problem? Is it in the failure of policy or is there not enough attention to it? That is why we find it very difficult to do it very precisely, especially since technology has reduced the difficulty of storing this type of data. We are probably not talking about rows of files that you have to keep for ten years. There's a graduation in the importance and seriousness of the case. If we leave this to the responsibility of the entrepreneur himself, we can also look back internally long enough and learn lessons from what has been done with a previous problem. The long-term retention obligation could also have the effect of automatically deleting the data after that period. This can, of course, be a pity, in those cases where information can be useful for preventing and remedying future problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-eerstekamer-12.u2	But I'm just trying to keep people from throwing away data way too quickly. Perhaps the Secretary of State can tell us that such data must be kept for at least a few years. In the long run, they are obsolete, because the systems are ageing, but I can imagine that a minimum retention period of five years is already quite reasonable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-eerstekamer-12.u3	I am looking for a little connection with the Telecommunications Act, not because there is a deadline, but because there is no time limit and the system is the same. Developments in the telecommunications sector are very rapid, which usually means that a period of two to three years is used. This also has to do with what Mrs Gerkens said: the rotational speed of systems. I therefore think it would be wise for a company itself to conduct that policy and to consider for itself what information is very system-related and which is more bound by business culture. However, we do think in years and not in months, if only because, if there is a sanction attached to it or if the process of informing citizens whose data has potentially fallen into the wrong hands is running, time passes and you have an annual cycle of accountability. You have to be able to look back in order to be accountable. An exact retention period, generic, I don't foresee. I believe that it is quite possible for the CBP to give an indication of the retention period when defining the guidelines and, more specifically, in the case of the type of problem. The Chamber can then be informed. Another question concerned the guidelines. These shall be established together with the Cabinet. It will be discussed in advance. They're also published. We will ensure that they reach the Chamber so that Members can see the guidelines and form an opinion on them. If necessary, Members can then consult on it. Mrs. Gerkens also asked to inform everyone when the law comes. We recognize that, in addition to the usual publicity surrounding a new law that has come into force, this law requires explicit attention, if only because it is often a date on which many other laws come into force. We foresee that we will enter into consultation with the CBP but also with the Chamber of Commerce to see how best to do this. We should not leave it alone with the publication of the law itself. I do not wish to go so far as to say that the instrument of a paper letter addressed to registration is the most appropriate route. However, I would like to say that we intend to make this widely known, not only through a one-off action, so that, especially in the sectors where it is relevant, there is broad attention to this point, either directly from the Ministry or from the CPVO. That must, of course, immediately be presented as a body with this competence. I would just like to allow myself the freedom to think for the CBP that it might say that it will not hesitate to use this power.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-eerstekamer-12.u4	I had also suggested to the Secretary of State to refer to the SME programme running under the ECP. Does the Secretary of State intend to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-eerstekamer-12.u5	Yeah, especially if we take communication on our own. If we have the lead in communication, we will also bring to the attention of the CBP that it should not only say "there is a duty; you must report it, and if you do not, then something is waving', but also must say "you need help, you can do so with the CBP itself, but we also have all kinds of programmes running for implementation'. Mrs Ter Horst had a question about an annual report on the number of data leaks reported. Sure. The CBP will also monitor the effects, precisely because we noticed that there are two risks in the treatment. The first is the risk that people think: it will run loose, so we don't report it. The second is the risk that people think: I have had a letter and it is also otherwise clear to me that something is waving, so I am going to do overcompliance. "Overcompliance" is a nice management term to describe that people follow the rules too much. We want to be able to anticipate those risks and adjust them where necessary. The annual report shall include such monitoring. This is also published and offered to Parliament. So it could be a further topic of discussion. I come to Mrs Gerkens' question about the structural provision, a letter on the Hold case. This is a different reporting obligation from what Mrs Ter Horst referred to in her question, in the cybersecurity corner, at the NCSC. That provision is included in the cybersecurity bill. I expect this to be dealt with in the Council of Ministers shortly and then sent to the Council of State for advice. Most of the questions have been asked on the most difficult subject. I kept it till the end, so I could get in first. This subject concerns the tension between the determination of the standard and the scope of the reporting obligation. If we make the law very specific, then everyone knows exactly where it is going, but then we also run the risk that, in the shortest possible time, developments in practice and technology will ensure that we are standing here again with a new bill, because the old net did not provide for these new developments. The purpose of the extension of the competence of the CBP was to give the CBP the power to punish infringements of the data protection provisions with fines. Not only does it have to raise a warning finger in supervision, but it can also impose a considerable fine if it is really necessary and if there is real cause for it. For example, the responsible person is called to account and experiences the consequences. Another goal in the design of the systems has always been not to impose an impossible effort on the person responsible. He shouldn't have to puzzle out whether or not he complies with the law. Those two goals lead to a tension in which you have to find a balance. Another goal is to protect as many people as possible and to make the most of society that it is not that it is not bad at all when data leaks or threatens to leak out somewhere. The evaluation of the Personal Data Protection Act has shown that this point is always coming back and that it is often about generally formulated standards. That's a somewhat neutral term, another calls it "open" and yet another even "vague." That is the system, especially since it is often a problem that we are facing for the first time and that still needs to be addressed in society. That's what makes it difficult. Companies cannot immediately see whether their behaviour is criminal or non-criminal. Another issue that we, as legislators, have to deal with is the strong dependence on the context in order to determine whether something is actually a problem. The precise circumstances of the case are quite leading in this respect. Certainly, the application of the directives must take account of the principle of legal certainty. We see in the development of the bill that the checks-and-balances have shifted. It's not literally the same text that was ever filed first. This is, of course, also due to the fact that the Advisory Section of the Council of State has pointed out that something should still be done about this. It has also been pointed out that a binding indication should be given as an intermediate step. It has now been chosen not to reverse the indeterminateness, the need to act and the need to learn how to deal with this matter, but to compensate for the step of the binding indication before fines are imposed. The obligation was also chosen not only to have the guidelines developed by the CBP itself, but also to instruct the CBP to consult with the Cabinet prior to the adoption, with the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations and the Secretary of State for Security and Justice, so that the process is more supervised. So it has been chosen to deal with indeterminateness in this way. I do not think that an interpretive explanation of this, which Mr Franken asked for, is appropriate at the moment, because we have just decided to put together the guidelines in conjunction with the CBP and take the expertise out of the field. Another reason why the request is difficult for me is the following. Ensemble is possible. This is also done on the advice of the Council of State. But we also have to respect the independence of the CBP. The European Privacy Directive specifically prescribes this. The scope for further developing legal standards to the level of detail is therefore limited.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-eerstekamer-12.u6	I would ask the Secretary of State to state clearly what the words 'a considerable opportunity' mean. I have given a number of examples of such fairly vague wordings that appear in law, in various jurisdictions. But why don't you just say it in Dutch? The citizens don't know that legal abracadabra. Tell me in plain Dutch what you think is "a significant opportunity," Secretary of State. A 60% chance it won't happen? Or 100%? Just try to describe it in plain language.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-eerstekamer-12.u7	Technology is too tricky for that. The odds of something being stolen from a burglary are considerable. I can estimate that. I'll just go to the place where the door was open and see if anything's missing. I may not know exactly what it said, but I do know about it. So I'll know if anything's missing. With data, it's different. Then you better make the comparison with someone who entered a physical building and took pictures. I can't see that. A data breach doesn't mean the leaked data has disappeared. A copy of that was made. Technologically, the chance depends on the possibility of exploiting the vulnerability discovered in the system. For a hacker, for example, the low threshold to enter can play a role. The question then is whether no one has encountered this vulnerability or whether an ethical hacker has already notified it in the context of the "responsive disclosure." It may also be a problem that has been written in literature for ten years and for which a lot of updates, patches and repair work have been carried out or to help with which nothing has been done. In the meantime, there may already be tools which not only hackers but also we in this Chamber can buy for a few dollars to scan whether a network is vulnerable. As the vulnerability increases, the chance of something being stolen increases. The content of the data that has fallen prey to copying or hacking contributes to the extent to which it has to be reported. When it comes to a system with only the name and e-mail address of a sports association and it is a very common sport, the vulnerability of the data at issue is much smaller than if it is perhaps the same combination of name and e-mail address, but then of an association that is socially controversial, to name but one, and of which it is not necessarily common to be a member. It may also be a web store selling products that the user or the consumer does not want everyone to know. If you know that you sell such products, your responsibility is greater. The technical risk of a leak must then be multiplied by the vulnerability of the information in order to analyse whether there is a mandatory leakage or risk of leakage to be reported. That is also what we are talking about. If a barrel of oil leaks, you can measure if there's anything out of it, but in this case, there could be something out of it without you knowing. Even if you can't determine if someone came by who used the leak to copy data, the vulnerability of the data may result in an obligation to report it. The House of Commons has amended that in such a way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-eerstekamer-12.u8	Does the Secretary of State consider the risk factor to be decisive? I'm not saying I would disagree with that, but then the Secretary of State gives a certain hand-off.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-eerstekamer-12.u9	Yeah, risk factor times severity. Risk is of course always the chance that something happens times the seriousness of it happened. It's already embedded in the word "risk." In this bill, the risk approach has indeed been chosen. In many cases it will be immediately clear that notification is mandatory. In a number of cases, some of which have been mentioned by the Court, this is not the case. What are we sending now? We are, of course, sending out reports of exactly all those cases that fall within the range. If we have to take risks, especially at the beginning, it is better safe than sorry not only a risk in society, but something that we would like to see, above all at the beginning, rather than a social fuss by finding that due to its scope and due to an important and crucial leak, there has been no follow-up or notification to the people involved. With these instruments and this framework of legislation, I am confident that the College of Personal Data Protection can make good use of the new possibilities offered by the law and can also form a workable practice, in which companies know where they stand and in which our data are particularly well protected. Mrs Gerkens pointed out that, of course, this is not just about conscious mistakes and violations of the law that must be pursued as a criminal. That's why it's in the administrative regime. Criminals take advantage of leaks that arise. Of course, preventing those leaks is much better than having to report it. Awareness in society is therefore crucial. It is not only important that people report a leak that they themselves know about, but also that they become empowered as soon as they ask why people want to know something in accordance with Mrs Gerkens' example. Such empowerment should also arise if we think that something may be wrong. When every time I say something, people change even one password, security is already increasing. That's my mantra. The network of information facilities we have in the Netherlands falls or stands with the safety throughout the chain and not only with the things we can understand under legal provisions. This brings me to the conclusion of the answers to the questions. If the First Chamber agrees with the proposal before us, we will urgently take up its work, develop guidelines and allow the law to enter into force in order to better protect the dates of all of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-eerstekamer-12.u10	Mr. Chairman. I'll make a few comments about staccato. The first is that in the first period I made my positive comments somewhat inflammable, because the administrative approach to that very high fine by non-jurisdictionists, which we usually tend to like, is placed in a somewhat abstract framework. For the sake of clarity, I would like to point out that we are pleased that this law is being implemented, where it has been granted to this college to carry out and enforce such powers. Secondly, I promised that I would come up with a single practical question in the second term. Mrs Gerkens has already asked that question. This concerns the overview that a responsible person should keep track of the infringements reported. The retention period is not prescribed. The reply clearly explains why this should not be done. The Secretary of State went into this again. Mrs Gerkens has said that you must think of at least five years. That sounds like a lot to me. As a criterion, I would like to maintain that the data should be kept for as long as there is a reasonable degree or even significant degree for the College's protection of personal data, to take over only a well-known slogan from Article 34, in order to carry out proper research. If they are not stored for a year, I do not think that the chance for the CBP is very good. The survey will therefore have to be kept for at least one year. I would like to hear a commitment from the Secretary of State on this. My third point concerns the main thrust of my contribution, that is to say the interpretative statement of Article 34a. The Secretary of State has tried to sail between Scylla and Charybdis. I can imagine that, but the point is that the ordinary citizen has this question. It seems to me that it is already a little clearer if it has been pointed out that there must be a certain risk, especially since there is even a trade in leaks, as the Secretary of State may be aware. It's called "zero-day exploits." She seems to be rather lucrative. A certain risk of another person is then sold. I would almost call that a criminal act, but that is not how we can qualify it. My fourth point concerns the English word 'awareness', which I think should gradually become a Dutch word. We must be so aware of the damage that can be done by misusing information technology or by the fact that others are going to use it wrongly, that I want to frame that word above everyone's bed. Then everyone sees that going to bed and getting up again. Reporting data leaks is a part of securing the trust that people need to communicate. Trust is the basis of our society. I am pleased that we have been able to make a contribution to ensuring this this afternoon.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-eerstekamer-12.u11	Thank you, Mr Franken. Before I give Mrs Ter Horst the floor for her second term contribution, I understand that these were your last words in this composition of the First Chamber. We have already said it in a previous debate, but I repeat: we will miss you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-eerstekamer-12.u12	I wonder what the President will say when I am finished!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-eerstekamer-12.u13	That we will miss you too!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-eerstekamer-12.u14	But not necessary! I hear it!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-eerstekamer-12.u15	This is particularly due to Mr Franken's expertise in this field.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-eerstekamer-12.u16	Absolutely. You don't have to explain. Mr. Chairman. Actually, I didn't really need a second term. I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. I understand from his words that not all organisations must comply with all reporting obligations. So you can't add them all together. I think we can see the Secretary of State as someone who will do everything possible to ensure that the pressure to report on organisations is as low as possible. I have every confidence in that. I have also heard the Secretary of State say that the Personal Data Protection Board will monitor the effects and will record them in an annual report. I hope I did not miss it, but I do not think that the Secretary of State has responded to my request to comment on the guidelines for the College's protection of personal data. Does he have a picture of that yet? If that question is too complicated, since it has not been answered in the first instance, I would like to hear whether he is prepared to send the guidelines to the Court for assessment if they have actually been drawn up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-eerstekamer-12.u17	Thank you, Mrs Ter Horst. We'll miss you! I'll skip the word "node." We shall miss you, and I sincerely believe that!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-eerstekamer-12.u18	I understand you didn't need a second-term contribution, Mrs. Gerkens? After all, we will see you again in the Chamber in its next composition. I shall now give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-eerstekamer-12.u19	Mr. Chairman. I feel support and confidence in the bill among the speakers. I hope that this will prove to be the case in the end, so that we can get to work quickly. Mr Franken has asked whether I can promise that the deadline will be at least one year. I can promise that I will convey this wish in the conversation with the Personal Data Protection College, which should establish its guidelines on this subject independently but in consultation. I also share this wish; a year is the least. As I said, the sector itself is often found to be logical for two to three years. However, I would also like to put this into guidelines as an independent obligation for the organisation, not only linked to the possibility of conducting research, to prevent an organisation from thinking: I have reported it, so assume they keep it themselves. It concerns the preservation of data leaks reported to the CBP. What Mr Franken said about leaks is all true. Awareness and awareness are important. I fully agree with Mr Franken. I would add that it is therefore up to us to supplement what we need to become aware of. In this case, this is certainly also our own contribution to safer communication among us. Mrs Ter Horst asked if I had an idea of the guidelines. I've dealt with her earlier question too implicitly, so it was me. I have said that I will send the guidelines to the Chamber as soon as they are there and published. In fact, I implied that I do not have any insight into it at the moment and that I cannot yet provide any information on the content of the guidelines under development. In consultation with the Cabinet, the College indicated that it would like to have time to implement this in the coming months, so that the guidelines are clear as soon as the legislative proposal comes into force and so that we do not have a time when there is a law but yet no clarity for citizens and businesses about its precise intentions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-eerstekamer-12.u20	The bill is passed without a vote.
