ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u1	Mr. Chairman. The well-intentioned interest of the GGD in our children is taking on very large forms, so we read last week in de Volkskrant on the basis of the description by a mother of the questionnaire for her 14-year-old daughter. The questions seemed both laughable and frightening to me. More scarier than the questions themselves is the question what the GGD then does with the answers. Of course I know that we in the Chamber have made agreements on child care. This results from the Digital Child Health Dossier. But did we then have any clarity as to what questions would be asked and what they would be used for in the longer term? Should we not look critically at the information we collect from people? What role does the Minister, through the Secretary of State, see for himself in this? I want to put this in a bigger perspective. On the one hand, the government talks about privacy by design and the storage of as little data as possible, on the other hand, we see increased registrations and the ways in which they can be linked. That is why we have the following questions. What does the Secretary of State think about this unbridled storage of data? What role does he see for the coordinating minister to present a critical mirror to colleagues? How has the collection of data by the government developed in recent years?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u2	I give the floor to the Secretary of State for Security and Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u3	Mr. Chairman. I am here on behalf of the Minister of Security and Justice, but not on behalf of the Minister of the United States of America. I cannot therefore answer the questions about the GGD and the questionnaire. I will go a little further into the questions about privacy in the broad sense. I distance myself from the term "unbridled data collection." If we were to apply this qualification, it would be a reason to change the policy, because that is not the approach. Data collection has increased in recent years, as it has increased throughout society. It is often data that is stored by humans, regardless of what the government wants to generate. In the Netherlands, we have the Personal Data Protection Board, soon the Dutch Data Protection Authority, which is competent to address the cabinet and also the social actors in the manner in which they deal with it and to ensure that the rules on privacy and storage of data are enforced. So we have a good system. The Minister for Security and Justice very often exchanges views with the Chamber on developments. We cannot see privacy as an element that has one minister as part of his portfolio. Every ruler has to do with privacy in all aspects of the policy. I have that myself, for example, in the cybersecurity domain. It would be very strange for me to say on such a core issue that I don't think about privacy. It is an integral part of any policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u4	That is a good answer, but we have a coordinating minister of privacy who currently does not seem to have a clear picture of the huge amount of data collected from our children in the care file. That probably happens with the best of intentions, but it's gonna go wrong. It also happens in the file on living or education. With all the files, we're going from incident to incident right now. As spokesman for privacy, I would like to hear a view from the coordinating minister. I would like a commitment from the Secretary of State to develop a vision for this. We have a privacy monitor for all those separate parts, but we do not have a general privacy monitor. I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u5	I do not share the view that the Minister has no vision. I say that on his behalf, but I don't share that image either. Nor can I see that there would be no vision because it is not in one note when it is being discussed so widely. There is a very wide exchange of views and the Minister is not merely expressing a vision. For example, he had another conversation in the spring with the people who call themselves the privacy coalition. He has given a comprehensive report to the Chamber, in a letter containing eight concrete keys to the policy. The Chamber was informed about "Freedom and security in the digital society." We still have notes on e-privacy, big data and profiling in the private sector. Even on this point, the Minister shared his views with the Chamber. In the spring there will be a WRR note about Big data, security and privacy. There's another cabinet reaction to that. I believe that there is a great deal of direction and coordination.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u6	I do not share that view, because I see that we go from incident to incident in the Chamber. In this case, data are collected and stored for years. I believe that we have agreements on this with the other committees, but I see that one committee looks at privacy protection of our citizens in a different way than in the other committee. In my opinion, it is not surprising to ask whether the coordinating minister, who is concerned about this, as we have appointed him, can provide a clear, clear view of privacy. I understand that it is divided over all kinds of different committees and notes, but I would like to see some coherence in that. I would therefore ask once again whether the Minister can give us coherent information on how the cabinet handles this. You can do that in a note or in a letter. The point is that we are now going from incident to incident.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u7	I'm gonna be in a tough spot. Mrs Oosenbrug made the observation that she felt that this discussion was bumping from incident to incident in the Chamber. I think it would be better if I didn't comment on that further. I notice that you have a vision that privacy by design is also very clearly part of. You need to contextually consider what you do or don't do. It is inherent that you do not have a one-size-fits-all approach, where everyone can always collect this kind of data within the government. Then you get a layered outcome. Part of the vision is that it is contextual and that when designing the systems, the legal frameworks and the practical systems you have to look at what is responsible to do in that case. If you took the biggest common denominator, you'd be collecting way too much data in cases where that's not necessary. We also have extensive discussions on this subject in the European area, because the European legislator is moving on this. That's what we talk to the Chamber about all the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u8	I'm sorry. I would prefer that we see it in a broader context. I hope we can have a wider debate on it in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u9	I do not know whether someone watching Question Time on TV is now reassured when his child comes from school and says that he has to answer questions, like whether they have financial concerns, whether he has ever used drugs or whether he has been stealing or lying. Would the parents think, after this answer from the Secretary of State, that there is a mustache, because there will be visions for these various investigations and policy documents? Would they trust in that? Does the Secretary of State agree with me that these questions go a long way? It is quite blood link that an instruction should be given that employees should not press the "reply to all" button, if this information is in an e-mail. We shouldn't want that, should we? Surely we must protect minors from possible gross violations of their privacy?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u10	It was already a description in a column of two things that start to get mixed up in practice, but here a lot is thrown together. If, in the question for the viewers at home, we start to mix things up, creating the impression that this information is being collected, coupled with people, people are not reassured, but that question is also a bit of a reality. Honestly, if you want to reassure yourself about the substantive questions asked by the GGD, it is useful if the responsible executive of VWS who deals with these questions is invited to answer those questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u11	Until recently, the Secretary of State was also present at the debates and general discussions on youth care. So I do have a question. There are currently serious concerns about privacy, data protection and medical confidentiality, as a result of the decentralisation of care and youth care. We get a lot of signals from parents that their children's records end up with civil servants. My question to this Secretary of State is actually quite simple. What's he gonna do to take away these parents' concerns? To what extent is he going to take a stand? Medical security must simply be guaranteed and privacy must not be violated.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u12	First of all, I agree with those principles. Secondly, I will also pass on what has been discussed here to those responsible for the regime. These will also continue with the Chamber in the forthcoming debates. However, it is important to take a closer look at what has actually been requested. The questionnaire presented in the column is about an individual case. There is therefore clearly a situation which can be traced back to an individual, because one person has completed a questionnaire. This should not be mixed with the general questionnaire that is collected anonymously. I think it would be a good idea to keep that difference in mind anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-6.u13	Thank you for your answers and for coming to the Chamber. That concludes oral Question Time.
