ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-24-tweedekamer-4.u1	Mr. Chairman. Last Thursday, some 200 Dutch behaved in a scandalous way in Rome. These were hooligans who abuse sport as an excuse to destroy and use violence. They don't deserve the name "supporter." These hooligans destroyed a beautiful fountain in ancient Rome. They also demolished cars, motorcycles and trash cans and threw smoke bombs, bottles and other stuff. A real soccer fan would be ashamed of this scene. A few weeks ago, we discussed the Football Act. That law is intended to deal with people like this, but the law has yet to pass through the Upper House. The disarray in Rome is forcing us to pay attention to this again. In this context, the CDA Group asks a number of questions to the Minister. What's known about these hooligans? How many of them had a stadium ban and were in the picture with Dutch police and justice? Were they in the sights of the so-called police spotters? What was the role of Dutch police spotters in Rome at all? Apparently, there were about ten of them. Is this true and, if so, have they had any insight into this mutiny group? Did these persons appear in the national database Hooligans in Beeld? If this is not the case, will they be included? I have the following questions about the ticket sales. It seems that Feyenoord supporters with a stadium ban could still buy a ticket for the race in Rome. Can the Minister confirm this and share the view that this cannot be the intention at all? I will return to the Football Act that was passed in this Chamber last month. The CDA and SP groups then called for extra attention to be paid to the applicability of the law to international competitions. I reread the stenogram. The stenogram shows that the Minister has been very clear in his answers. He said: "For outings outside the Netherlands, the KNVB may impose national stadium bans applicable to all football matches at home and abroad in which a Dutch paid football organisation participates. The troublemaker is not allowed to enter the stadium at a foreign competition. The criminal court may impose a reporting obligation and a location bid for all games of a paid football club at home and abroad. This makes it virtually impossible for these persons to travel." That's good news. The CDA Group asks the Minister if he can ensure that the Football Act can be dealt with as soon as possible in the Upper House. There is a real hurry now, because the whole of the Netherlands thinks that this law has already entered into force, while that is not yet the case. To what extent are the extended possibilities of reporting and location obligations, irrespective of the adoption of this law, already applicable to these rioters? In short, does the Minister see opportunities to deal with these people outside of criminal law?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-24-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. I thank Mr Oskam for his questions. Let me say on behalf of the government that we have seen with horror and shame what our countrymen have done in Rome. That cannot be done, it cannot be done and it cannot be accepted. We have taken the events with a sense of shame. We have contacts on all fronts with our colleagues in Italy. The mayor of Rotterdam also has contact with his colleague there. Police and the judiciary are conducting a major investigation to find out everything about those who have been spotted and have behaved shamelessly, as barbarians. I'd like to say that in advance. If you look at the international heritage, I also think that Rome is actually a city of all of us. We've all had that feeling, and we still do. However, I would have liked to have said that again. It is also fantastic that all private initiatives have emerged to raise money. The city of Rotterdam is also considering doing so. The cabinet also wants to contribute to this through support, by looking at, analysing and inventorying this. I come to Mr Oskam's questions. There were a lot of them, and I'd like to answer them as well. Of course, we do not know everything about the investigation that has taken place. We're working on that. What do we know about those who behaved badly there? Do they have a stadium ban? Were the hooligans familiar with us? This is the kind of question the investigation is about. Police and justice have been in Rome to get the files here and make them all public, one by one. Mr Oskam can rely on that. I'll inform the Chamber about that, too. A lot of questions have been asked and we will answer them. Although I am also impatient, I am sure that Mr Oskam does not blame me for wanting to take a good and careful look at this first. He also asked what the spotters were doing. It was about a dozen spotters. They advised the Italian colleagues there. How many people were in the picture with Dutch police and justice? Were they included in the database? That is what we have to see. After the investigation, we'll find out who was in the database and who's still in it. The stadium bans apply in Rome, don't they? It is exactly as Mr Oskam said, quoting me from the Acts. It is true that stadium bans can also be imposed internationally by the KNVB. Criminal law can also be imposed by the criminal court, but not by the mayor as such.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-24-tweedekamer-4.u3	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-24-tweedekamer-4.u4	I understand the Minister is going to inform us in writing about the investigation. But of course this is in a screaming hurry, because Thursday is the return race in Rotterdam and the supporters of AS Roma have already announced revenge actions. Despite the fact that we still have the answers, I would like to look forward with the Minister to next Thursday. What are the municipalities, the police and the minister going to do to prevent a huge riot, fighting and damage in Rotterdam? Is it not possible, in order to prevent a confrontation, to impose an administrative measure of resignation under Article 154 of the Municipal Law for the supporters of Feyenoord who have behaved badly? They must, of course, be brought into the picture quickly. In this way, the supporters of AS Roma are given the signal that we are taking this seriously and that we are not only apologizing, but also addressing these people, so that the competition can run without interference.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-24-tweedekamer-4.u5	I can answer the following question. There is, of course, good contact with the Rotterdam triangle, which takes responsibility for this. People are doing a very good job of doing that. I've been in touch with the mayor of Rotterdam today. Article 154a of the Municipal Law is always technically an option to stop administratively, but it is not the most successful measure. I believe that the measure has only been applied once. The WODC has also been investigating this. There's good contact between the state's attorney and the police who's in Rome and who's coming back now. We will support the Rotterdam triangle in all facets in its actions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-24-tweedekamer-4.u6	Finally, I would like to ask a few questions about the situation in Rome. It's a fast-track law that's been applied there. There have been huge sentences, some of which are conditional, as we understand. Does the Minister know whether there have been unconditional sentences? In what way will Dutch services or the Dutch government help the Italians in effecting the penalties and collecting the damages?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-24-tweedekamer-4.u7	We had direct contact with our colleague in Italy. The mayor's been in touch with his colleague. The police were the next day from Rotterdam in Rome. Files are being exchanged. We want all those who have misbehaved there simply to be condemned in person by the public prosecutor so that they get the punishment they deserve very much. Mr Oskam can rely on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-24-tweedekamer-4.u8	It was an embarrassing display that the hooligans called "Feyenoordsupporter" showed in Rome last week. The Minister has now repeated this in so many words. There has been enormous damage to the monuments there. A school in Zwolle is now picking up money for that. That seems to me to be a wonderful initiative, but it is also not entirely the right way to end up compensating for the damage. Wiegel, honorary member of Minister Opstelten's party, has proposed that we should pay for the damage. What does the Minister think of the suggestion that we should get over the bridge and help Rome, and thus Italy, to compensate for the damage?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-24-tweedekamer-4.u9	I have just said something about this, namely that we will take stock of all these fantastic private initiatives in good consultation. An example of such an initiative is that in Zwolle, but also elsewhere in the country there are such initiatives. People want that, too. The city of Rotterdam is also busy. I have discussed with the Mayor of Rotterdam that we will help to support such initiatives. We will keep a very close eye on it, so that it becomes a gesture from Dutch society, by which we will also show that we do not accept it. Not only by judicial means and through criminal law, but also in this way, we want to mention this and do something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-24-tweedekamer-4.u10	A gesture is beautiful, of course, but it would be even better if those who caused it were simply held jointly and severally liable for the costs. I therefore certainly want to receive a factual account from the Minister. Besides, I want to hear from him. Unconditional punishment in Italy, of course, sounds wonderful, but what is going to happen here in the Netherlands to actually condemn the culprits for everything they have destroyed and what that entails? €45,000 parole would be better than unconditional.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-24-tweedekamer-4.u11	I do not have a value assessment of the actions of the Italian judicial authorities. I think they've gone through hard. We're working with them now. We'll take over the business. In reply to Mr Oskam's questions, I have already made it very clear that we are doing so with everything that is in us, so very large. I also think that we should consider whether the costs caused by the perpetrators can be recovered from them in the first place.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-24-tweedekamer-4.u12	The vote of censure has been sufficiently pronounced, and my group naturally agrees with that. I'd like to look forward now. Fans of Roma have announced revenge. There's 2,400 guys coming this way. There is a battle plan of the municipality of Rotterdam. Part of this is that the fans of Roma are banned from the center and led to the Old Haven. We have already heard this morning the concerned chairman of the association of entrepreneurs of the Old Haven, who says that they cannot, of course, stand up and that everything will be cut short there. When the Minister is asked what measures are being taken, he calls administrative detention, but he says that this is not very successful. So the question is what will the minister do, together with the municipality of Rotterdam, to prevent the announced revenge and all the damage that it causes to the entrepreneurs in the Old Haven.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-24-tweedekamer-4.u13	I put the full responsibility where it belongs to our system under the law, namely the mayor and the local triangle, in which the Public Prosecutor also plays an important role. I have every confidence in that. They have taken good measures. I always stick to what I call the Irish Law: do not disturb those who actually bear responsibility in the preparation of the operations they are working on. We will continue to follow this in close contact with the triangle.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-24-tweedekamer-4.u14	I'd like to ask another follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-24-tweedekamer-4.u15	No, because a colleague of yours has already asked a question once. We'll save this for next time. The Minister may remain for a while to answer the next question.
