ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u1	I suggest that we do two-way interruptions at the end of the blocks. The Minister will briefly indicate which cubes she will deal with.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u2	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the members of the Chamber for their questions and for their input. As most Members of Parliament said at the beginning of their contributions, it is a special budget treatment. Yesterday afternoon, before the first term, Secretary of State Wilma Mansveld offered her resignation to the King. This means that I will now do the debate on the budget, which we have jointly prepared, on my own. That's weird. It is also a pity, because we started the ride together and I would have liked to finish the ride together. Of course I have already done it personally, but I also want to publicly thank Wilma Mansveld for her commitment in recent years. Not only for the budget that we are discussing now, but for all the things that she has done in her areas. I have always experienced the collaboration as very pleasant and I have experienced it as a very pleasant colleague. Yesterday there was a lot of speculation about a new Secretary of State, but there is no name yet. There's no choice yet. The question was whether we should wait for that with the budget debate. I think, however, that it is a good thing to just deal with the budget at the moment, because the work must continue. I will therefore also deal with all the questions raised by the Secretary of State. In other words, I am doing all the portfolios now, as far as there is room for discussion in the Chamber. I have answered some of the questions in writing. The other will now be dealt with orally. I'll do that in different blocks. There is a block about accessibility, consisting of roads, rail, inland waterway and aviation. A question has also been asked about the bike. It will also be answered in this block. I'll always tell you when I'm going to the next part. There is also a block on the environment and then two smaller blocks on space and on the ILT, because specific questions have been asked by a number of Members. In the road block, I will also answer the questions that have been asked about the Infrastructure Fund and the slides. That's about all the modalities, but I think it's useful to put it somewhere. Before I deal with the blocks, I would like to say something about the use of this budget. This budget is about keeping our country moving, that our infrastructure and our policies create room for innovation, economic dynamism and viability. We want to create conditions for prosperity, more jobs, security, good quality of life and also a beautiful country. That is a lot of ambitions that come together in this budget. When I look at the Netherlands with the eyes of abroad and for example at our infrastructure, I see that there is reason for trust. Mrs Visser has already indicated it. We have risen on the international ranking of the most competitive countries. We're in the top five. We have risen on the global ranking of countries with the best infrastructure. Nor does any European country transport as much goods on water as the Netherlands. With us, that's 37%. There is also a great deal of interest in our water safety and our water technology. From all over the world we come to see how our Space for the River projects give more space to the water and prepare ourselves for the consequences of climate change. These are all positive signals. They are a strong encouragement to continue on this path. However, they are no more than signals, because a place on a ranking list should never be a goal. There's just a lot to do. That is why, with this budget, I am building an infrastructure that is ready for the future and essential for a country whose economy is so heavily dependent on international connections. With this budget, I am building an economically competitive but also beautiful and liveable country. Economically competitive without beautiful and liveable also makes no sense. With the new Environment Act, which we will be discussing later, we have new possibilities for this. For the first time we have an integral law for the whole environment, in which nature and the environment, infrastructure and water and spatial development merge into one law. We assume more of what is possible and what is possible. That is much more interesting than putting the emphasis on what is not allowed. This way of working fits with this busy, but especially dynamic country, with lots of possibilities for a bright future. So much for my general introduction. I now move on to the block on accessibility, starting with the roads. I shall begin with the successful congestion approach, but also with the worrying forecasts. Between 2004 and 2014, there was more traffic on the highways. Yet we were less in traffic. We measure this in travel time loss and that has fallen by as much as 15%. The peak in the fileswaart was in 2007. We are now about at the level of 1998. Of course, the economic crisis also reduced traffic. We have talked about this before, but this effect was limited, namely 16%. What was particularly helpful was the construction of additional lanes. Half of this approach has contributed to the drop in traffic. In addition, measures in the area of smart traffic management and better use further reduced congestion by 11%. It is good to know what works, in view of the already mentioned worrying forecasts. Traffic's increasing again. All the lights are green and it is a positive development when the economy attracts, but this development translates directly into more mobility. There will be more people and more goods on the roads, the water and the railroad. That's for anyone who's on the road a lot already. In the last quarter, the herd's value has increased by over 10%. The predictions show that this trend continues. Those predictions are not done with a glass ball, but come from KiM, the Knowledge Institute for Mobility Policy, which makes trend calculations for us. These predictions are not unexpected; we are not surprised by them either, so we have taken them into account. In any case until 2020 we still have more than 400 km of extra asphalt. Nevertheless, it is becoming more crowded and we will take longer to arrive at our destination. KiM's forecasts indicate an increase in vehicle loss hours...................................................................................................................................................................................................... This year you can already see that. In the light of the above, it is very important for me to continue working on major projects that will reduce congestion in the years to come and beyond 2020. I am thinking of the widening of the A1, the A6 and the A9, the widening of the roads between Schiphol, Amsterdam and Almere City. I also think of the extended A4 between Delft and Schiedam, which finally opens. I am also thinking of new important projects such as the Blankenburg connection, the ring around Utrecht, the A13/A16 and the extended A15. After the emphasis on broadening, which has been laid in recent years, the focus is now on strengthening the entire network with the construction of missing links. This often involves completely new connections. They are complex, because they cut through areas where people live and where nature is. So we want to do this carefully. We can do this better and better, but because the projects are difficult and complex, the usefulness and necessity of these projects are sometimes questioned. I hope that KiM reporting now also provides convincing evidence that these connections are really necessary. The Netherlands has not yet completed the above measures either. I have said before that there will always have to be money for infrastructure. If we want to keep congestion manageable in the long term, we will have to take additional measures. For the longer term, we mainly foresee bottlenecks in the regions Rotterdam, The Hague, Amsterdam and Noord-Brabant. These bottlenecks will also arise if economic growth remains low. To keep the traffic jams manageable in the coming years and keep the Netherlands running, it is important that we reserve enough money for infrastructure. Several Members of Parliament have insisted on this. Mrs Visser and Mr Madlener, among others, have asked for this. There is already a broad policy study on the flexibility of the MIRT, which also looks at the future financing of the infrastructure. For example, the Chamber also adopted the Harbers motion calling for an extension of the Infrastructure Fund after 2028. Of course, it is also important to organise additional infrastructure budgets as much earlier as possible. We are at the top of the world in terms of the quality of our infrastructure. I want to maintain that position. I want to strengthen. I want to do everything I can to prevent the Netherlands from stopping. I am hammering on this because I sometimes hear the story that the Netherlands is finished or that the need for mobility in the future is decreasing. However, nothing is less true. Of course, there are more ways to manage mobility. I'm thinking of programs like Better Benutten and new technology like ITS. I'll get back to that in a minute. First, I would like to discuss with you why it is so important that we have the Infrastructure Fund. I am going to go into this more broadly, because several questions have been asked by Members, including Mr Van Helvert, Mr Houwers and Mrs Van Veldhoven. Those questions concerned the Infrastructure Fund in a broad sense, but also specifically concerned maintenance, management, construction and the so-called cash-sliding methodology. I have already explained it in the legislative consultation (WHO), but I would like to explain it again, because not everyone was present. Why do we have the Infrastructure Fund and the Delta Fund? Such a fund is a fairly unique construction, which you see in few countries. The most important thing is that such a fund ensures security and stability. This is crucial for a country like the Netherlands, which has to protect itself from the water. It is essential for a country where the economy is largely dependent on a good connection with the hinterland. Our Delta Works and our infrastructure require large investments, and you need to be able to plan long-term investments in advance. We must be able to make long-term commitments for construction, management and maintenance. This not only improves efficiency, but also creates a good investment environment. There are many countries that come to us to see how we do it. They are often jealous because they often work with four-year budgets in their own country. Our Infrastructure Fund, the current Infrastructure Fund, runs until 2028 and consists of a programme of some 175 projects. That is an incredibly dynamic process, because there are always windfalls and disappointments. This requires careful fitting and measuring, and it calls for a sufficient budget for all projects. The advantage of such a fund is that, over a longer period of time, we can weigh back and forth against each other and also have flexibility in the event that a project slows down or........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Of course, we want to do so as transparently as possible. Working with cash slides is essential. One of the MPs asked if we can't get rid of these cash slides, but a cash slide is essential for such a fund. To give just one example: if a project of 400 million has been estimated to last four years, you plan to do so in time, for example, in advance of 100 million a year. Then the developer is faster; in the first year he has already realized half of the whole. That means you're paying him 200 million and making the rest of the budget a little less in the other years. It could be the other way around. Those are the technical cash slides, which just happen a lot here, because you see on-going such a project what the real planning is. These are cash slides that you can see, but which do not fully explain exactly what happened, because they have no influence on the project. They do not affect the content of the project and they do not affect the project's term. If a project runs out in time or is realized earlier, we will indicate it specifically in our books, because it has a political consequence. As a Chamber, I think you should know whether there is an overrun or whether it will be a little later in time. That's what we always say explicitly. Finally, we sometimes move between modalities, but the money always comes back to its own mode. In the legislative consultation we discussed how to make this easier for the Chamber to understand. We have also agreed with the auditors that we will see how we can best shape this together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u3	Mr. Chairman. I have a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u4	Go ahead, Mr Hoogland.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u5	Mr. Chairman. If the Minister finishes a whole block, the actuality of a question is actually gone. I understand that we want to prevent everyone from getting on the interrupting microphone at the same time, but if I have a question about the cash slides now, that is a relevant point. Soon we'll end up on another subject within this block and we'll get it all piled up with the same conclusion again. Can we not agree, for example, that we are doing one interruption per block and leave it at that? At least we'll have a chance to ask a question. Is that a possibility? Or are you saying, no, we're not?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u6	At the beginning of this budget debate, I proposed interrupting at the end of each block. Then I do not want to limit you in the number of interruptions. I suggest we not make the cubes too long. Now I think we are almost at the end of the general infrastructure, so before we go to the roads, there are two other people who would like to ask about the general infrastructure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u7	I support Mr Hoogland in his request to at least keep the cubes limited. In the Minister's introduction to the dice classification, it had not become clear to me that there would first be a block of generalities, after which we could ask questions. The Minister's introduction to the Infrastructure Fund relates to roads, but also to all other blocks afterwards. Both on roads and on the Infrastructure Fund and this whole system, I think Members really have questions. Let that general introduction now be a separate block, so that we can ask questions about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u8	That seems to me to be an excellent proposal. Are you almost at the end of the general introduction, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u9	I'm not in a general introduction, but in the block about finances and roads. I was just moving on to maintenance, management and replacement. If the Chamber wants to ask me questions in between, I have no problem with that. In fact, that makes the debate lively.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u10	I think it would be wise for the spokesmen to come to me for a moment so that we can agree on how we are going to proceed with this meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u11	We have agreed with each other that in order to speed up the debate a little bit and to give the opportunity to ask questions in time, I am going to limit the spokesmen in the number of interruptions. There may be four interruptions per group, but that can be done in between. So we're not gonna stick to the blocks anymore. I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u12	I thought it would be filling up with the interrupting microphone by now, but I can see that that is not the case. I go to the questions that have been asked about the budget for management, maintenance and replacement. Among other things, Mr Smaling and Mrs Van Veldhoven are concerned about whether there is sufficient funding for, for example, the maintenance of the waterways and the discussion we had with the General Court of Auditors on this matter. This was also discussed in the legislative consultation, but I would like to explain what we intend to do with this. The Court of Auditors says that we are 400 million short. I'm taking a specific route now, but this also played on the roads and the railroads last year. As has already been said, we do not agree with the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors looks up to 2020 and states on that basis that we do not have a sufficient budget. However, we ourselves have a different horizon, namely 2028. If you look until that year, you'll see that we did cover the $300 million. The question to the Court of Auditors has, in my view, been asked in a period of time. It has been a long time since the fund had not yet been extended. So I don't blame the Court of Auditors. We indicated this in our reply to the Court of Auditors. That leaves 100 million out of the 400 million, and I think that is the main point for discussion. The Court of Auditors is actually saying that you must have booked everything you have planned for the future. However, we do not see the amount as a deficit, but as an acceptable strain on the budget. Of course, that sounds very exciting and one might think: what does the Minister mean by that? Let me give you an example. As soon as you have a 30-year depreciation period in front of a bridge, the Court of Auditors says that in year 31 you must have the replacement budget for the bridge. What do we say? We believe that what the General Court proposes is a technical exercise. After all, it may well be that you have to work with such a bridge much sooner. Unfortunately, we've come across that. However, it may also be possible that such a bridge can last another five years in 2035. So you should basically try not to plan just exactly in the years based on a technical exercise. You should also just feel a little bit what it takes at what time. A certain degree of flexibility is therefore desirable. First of all, I always do what's necessary. So if something breaks down somewhere that needs to be maintained, or if it just needs to be invested somewhere, I will. However, we keep that flexibility, because we expect that things will not always be broken immediately on the technical write-off date. We expect that it may well be that we can continue with a small procedure or with some delay for a while longer with a bridge for example. Moreover, this amounts to 100 million on a huge budget for management and maintenance. I'm saying that to put this into perspective. Mr Smaling also wondered how this lack of management and maintenance related to large projects such as the Blankenburg tunnel or the widening of the A27. I agree that priority must be given to management and maintenance. I have said many times in the past that I am the one who for the first time went back to making real budget reservations for management and maintenance. In the past, we did that a little from the windfalls and setbacks. I also made a structural reservation for this. This has been at the expense of part of the budget for construction, although, politically speaking, the budget for construction is, of course, always much more sexy than the budget for management and maintenance. However, I think you should invest well in management and maintenance. You're penny wise, pound foolish if you don't. Therefore, there must always be sufficient resources for management and maintenance, even when we are working on major projects. I will therefore always continue to carry out necessary maintenance. We think we can do this simply and do it properly on the basis of what we have now estimated. The space we have for the major projects for new construction is the space that is really available for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u13	I am, of course, very pleased with the words the Minister said at the end. She says she will always ensure that there is enough room for maintenance and keeping all our infrastructure safe. I do not share the Minister's analysis that this is only about 100 million. In fact, in the sum total of the various articles, it is about 1 billion in budget tension. In the Minister's system, 100 million are still open on waterways. There is also 400 million open on roads. Furthermore, there is a budget strain of 475 million on track, plus additional risks. If you add that up, you're gonna come up with a billion-dollar budget line. The Minister now says: if it's a bit of a problem with waterways, I'll get the money on roads or I'll get it by rail. However, if there are gaps there, it will be tight in the meantime, especially since the available space in the Infrastructure Fund is very limited because the cabinet has virtually exhausted the entire disposable space on 2028. The sum total of all these matters actually leads to the Minister being able to get into a situation where she almost immediately has to delete if something is not right. $1 billion is a lot of money. How will the Minister guarantee that she will always make that money available for management and maintenance? Does she further share the analysis of a budget strain of 1 billion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u14	I was talking specifically about waterways. That's what I said. I don't share the analysis of 1 billion budget strings. I have just said that, for example, in the area of the budget for waterways, the General Court is talking about 400 million, of which 300 million is already covered by the budget up to 2028. So that leaves 100 million. Last year we discussed 300 million for roads. There is now a debate on, I believe, 475 million for rail; I say this out of my mind. This is also about budget tension. How does something like this come about? The Secretary of State has said: I would like to know what we intend to need in the coming period for management and maintenance on rail, for example, with the extension of areas and with the matters that will take place in the coming years. An analysis has been made of that. It has been said that it is likely that 475 million more will be needed than planned. That does not mean that we really have to spend that amount, because then we have years to see whether we can do it in another way, whether it can be simpler or less. Of course, it can be disappointing. The budget is always flexible. However, these are not fixed amounts. So there is no question of 1 billion that should be included in any way. That is also what I am trying to make clear in my speech on flexibility. You're not sure if a certain circumstance is going to occur. These are estimates, estimates of when things should be technically adjusted or replaced. If you add the different modes together, you're at a higher amount. Mrs Van Veldhoven is absolutely right. Whether that is a billion, or less or more, may not even be so relevant anymore. But what happens if we really have to do something? Then we'll have to put that on top of the lists. Something else for maintenance you might be able to do at a later time. It is adaptable, especially since that billion out of our total expenditure is going to be spent some 6 billion a year on infrastructure even over several years. In that long period that is clear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u15	Thank you very much. May I ask that not only the question but also the answer be kept as concise as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u16	I'm trying to keep it as short and as factual as possible, but this is a fairly complex set of data. I have to make it clear to the Minister, too. That 100 million, very conservatively estimated, is what the Minister calls himself. Track has just been validated by the Rijksfinanciëninspectie; that 375 million. We talked about roads last year. Of this 0.7 billion, 0.4 billion is still open. That too has been calculated and that is also conservatively estimated. Conservatively estimated, this is a billion dollars in flexibility that the Minister wants to have. However, if you are short on all posts, you do not have the flexibility to get money from anywhere. That's where I care. I heard the Minister say at the end: if I have to deal with problems, I'm going to postpone another meeting. She said, however, that maintenance will always be enough money. However, if she closes the maintenance holes with the maintenance holes, we keep a hole. That's what I'm really worried about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u17	If you move something forward because it is necessary and can move something else back because it can happen later, there is no problem. Then you don't have a hole in your maintenance. That is just the well-known cash slides that we often talk about. That's not the problem. That 475 million has also been validated. I believe that you are going to discuss this in a separate debate on ProRail in the near future that there are no concerns about the implementation. The same applies to roads. Last year this was discussed extensively with the Chamber and it was finally agreed. I did not get a motion or anything else on that with the request not to do so anymore. The essential question is not whether there is a hole or not. It's much more about the way you present business. As far as I'm concerned, it's a technical exercise. The Court of Auditors says that if something is technically written off, you must have the money available. That's a formal line. We say that this is not always necessary. After all, there are a lot of things that can be done later or that turn out to be not so bad. In all the new projects we do, we try to apply the life cycle immediately. In the future, such issues will be much less dealt with, as management, maintenance and depreciation have already been taken into account. If anything happens to a bridge tomorrow, we'll get to work on that bridge tomorrow. That's all that matters. That's what you want to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u18	That always comes at the expense of something else. In this sense, budget tension remains a budgetary strain. It all sounds very technical, but I think it's just another, just word for "deficit." You can be flexible at different posts, but if you have budget tension everywhere in a negative sense, you keep filling one deficit with another. In that sense, I do not yet see how the Minister sees it. The Minister said in the past that, once the economy attracted, it would go to Prime Minister Rutte with the remark: the economy attracts, I need more. We are looking for this minister's budget effort instead of the budget strain. Has this consultation with the Prime Minister taken place and, if so, what has it achieved?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u19	We are talking about management and maintenance. Mr Van Helvert talks about the expenditure budget for new projects. That's two different things. Take waterways. I have just said that, according to the Court of Auditors, of 400 million deficit, 300 million is simply included in the budget up to 2028: 100 million for replacement and renovation, 100 million covered by the investment article 15 after 2020 for non-refunding of the price adjustment. That leaves 100 million. This is the subject of the debate on late maintenance which I have just tried to outline. It's about the techniques. The same goes for the roads. We have a budget for management and maintenance and a budget for building roads. Mr Van Helvert's question was about the budget for road construction. He asked me to raise my finger when there's extra money. The answer to that is yes. I said that, and I will. However, as the Chamber has seen in the Finance Minister's budget, there was no extra money this year. The additional budgets allocated to two ministries have been at the expense of estimates and budgets from other ministries. There was no extra money, but with the money that was there, it was pushed. As I said at the beginning of my speech, we are not just trying to get more budget for after 2028. If there's room sooner, we're trying to get extra money. I don't care if it's next year, if there's a windfall and if it's possible, or under Rutte III for example. For me, it is important to point out that it is necessary that there should eventually be an additional budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u20	Those are indeed two different things. The Minister understood that correctly. With the first point, I continued with Mrs Van Veldhoven's question. She pointed out that budgetary pressure remained negative. It's gonna stay that way. My second point was about road construction. This concerns tension created by the cabinet itself. In the past, the Minister said: if the economy attracts, I will go to the Prime Minister. That has already changed: if there is a budget, I will raise my finger. That's different. I have to say, therefore, that the Minister has not yet been to the Prime Minister because she did not see any additional budget. I'm asking the Minister to make an effort to get an extra budget available.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u21	Mr Van Helvert said I would go to the Prime Minister, but I always said I would go to the Minister of Finance for that, because he is the one who has the budget. Of course, I have given him my wishes, as all the ministers have done. The Minister for Finance has indicated that these wishes could not be met. If specific wishes could be met, because the Chamber had put a lot of pressure on them, it would be at the expense of other ministries. The room could see that. There was no "round of money." If there is no money, there is no point in putting a finger on me or the other ministers. This is without prejudice to my view that it is important to keep pressure on it, because it is clear that we need the budget. And yes, there has indeed been a budget cut during this period. Mr Madlener will also remind me of that, so I'm just saying. It is a pity that this has happened, but I would also like to point out that we have spent the same amount of money in recent years, because growth has been achieved. I'd like to have that growth back. If I could do magic, I'd do it today, but that's not how it works. We just have to wait. The economy attracts a bit. I hope that we will be able to benefit from this later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u22	The Minister knows me well as spokesperson for the PVV. In fact, I would like to point out that this cabinet has taken quite a handful of the Infrastructure Fund. However, I would also like to point out that the Minister for Finance, Mr Dijsselbloem, is at the forefront of transferring money to Brussels. If it takes extra money, he'll be there like the chickens to do it. Of course, this Minister should not be satisfied with that. I would also like to point out that motorists in the Netherlands pay some 20 billion in taxes every year. It amounts to 20 billion and only 10% or 11% of it goes back to roads. This is not at all in proportion to each other, especially given the fact that the traffic jams are now increasing again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u23	I would also like some more money to come our way, but Mr Madlener knows as well as I do that this debate should be held at the time when the overall financial budget is being dealt with. The PVV then probably tabled an amendment to take money from Brussels to the car. I assume that the PVV has done so in view of what Mr Madlener has just said. That is when the debate is taking place. Mr Madlener also knows that from this budget we cannot intervene in another budget. I know Mr Madlener's concerns. I also think it is important that in the future more money should go to infrastructure. That's why I did this myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u24	In this respect, we will have to wait for more money in the forthcoming elections. I can't wait for them to come soon. But apart from money, I would like to mention one person, Mr Henk Sijsling. This citizen has been in a lot of traffic at The Hague and thought: let me call with a relatively cheap adjustment of the road. 200 meters of highway has been modified, which has had a fantastic effect. He's a smart man. Fortunately, the Ministry answered the phone and accepted his wish. Crying for that man; he deserves a ribbon in my eyes. But those kinds of examples of small adjustments that suddenly make it smoother, there are still plenty of them. Citizens might think "gosh, I'm always in traffic," or "that traffic light stays on red" or "that exit needs to be improved." Is the Minister open to these easy adjustments and does she want to put real officials to work to make these small adjustments, which can be paid and not so expensive?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u25	Mr Madlener is helping me to make a nice transition to his favourite subject, namely the Better Benutten programme. He asked if this is a meaningful program. On the one hand, you have to invest in road infrastructure and asphalt, but on the other hand, there are programs like Better Benutten and Intelligent Transport Systems, which will ultimately help you solve a lot of these problems. The Better Benutten programme stimulates innovative techniques. In doing so, we ask the regions and the municipalities, but also the industry, for example, to contribute to solving specific problems, in order to come up with these new innovative things in order to make traffic easier or to make the journey from A to B more flexible. That takes place in such a program, among other things. In addition, I strongly support the fact that my Ministry, specifically RWS, is open to innovations and gives room for them. I'm glad this turned out okay. I've got people reporting to me, too. I pass it on to you all the time. Next month we will provide the results of Better Benutten to show what's in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u26	Before the Minister moves on to the next block, I'm going to go back to the cash slides. The Court notes that shifting maintenance back can have an impact on the quality of the road network, on the works of art, as they are called. By the way, we call them "bridges" at home. The Court also notes that this can have an impact on security. The question is therefore whether this system is the most efficient and sustainable. You can slide, but of course there's a maximum. Shouldn't we establish that we need to talk about that ceiling for once? Does the Minister have any idea about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u27	I'm fine with that. Mr Hoogland is right that you cannot keep moving. It is incredibly important to guarantee safety and not to make the problem so big that the operation is more expensive than if you had started immediately. That'll get you back on the cashier's counter. That is why we constantly look at what is sensible and what is the right time for each project. Sometimes things don't work out. Then you have something quite new, and then something falls off. Sometimes you have something that lasts years longer because it's solid work. I'm fine with watching that. All I'm saying is that we didn't create a huge budget strain, but we did create something of budget strain on the total. That's what we do in order to have that flexibility. That's what I really trust. If the Chamber, regardless of whether it is the rapporteurs or wider in the Chamber, wishes to discuss further the question of where the border is, what is priority and what is priority, I am quite open to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u28	That's good to hear. I share the observation that tension in itself does not have to be wrong, that flexibility is necessary and that long deadlines are good for such a fund. Talking through it again is just too economical for me. I think it would be good if we had an external look at the real extent of such tension. The Minister can also send a letter about this. I know that tension isn't that big right now, but even if it's just for the successors in Rutte III.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u29	I'd like to do that. I will repeat what I said during the WHO, in which not everyone was present, namely that I will also have a discussion with the Court of Auditors because, of course, we have a difference of opinion on how we deal with this kind of thing. Then we'll see if we're able to come up with a proposal together on how we're going to do that. If that does not work, we will also have debates in the Chamber, because otherwise we will remain in the same discussion, that they will say so, and I will say so. That's a little tricky. I'd be happy to. I think it is good to have that conversation with the Court of Auditors. I think that's already planned. Then we can see if we can make some sort of percentage statement about it, as we also say that we do not do more than 20% of our projects with pps.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u30	Mrs. Van Veldhoven, your second interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u31	I am very pleased with this commitment from the Minister. The fact that there is some degree of flexibility does not mean that it is unlimited. Can the Minister address the question of whether you should relate that percentage to the buffers you still have in the Infrastructure Fund? When it's completely exhausted, you have less flexibility than when you still have a lot of free space. Can it include this in the discussion with the Court of Auditors? Do you have to be more careful the more exhausted it is, because you have less to slide? The Minister also said: in fact, the cash drawer's money always comes back to the original article. I ask the Minister if she can guarantee that it will always come back and not just 'actually'. It is nice that this is made more transparent as a result of the WHO. I continue to mess around with the Minister's last remark that, if there is a shortage of interviews, she is going to postpone other interviews. Is it prepared to look at other items, if this is really necessary, in order to guarantee that they will always have sufficient money for maintenance? If the need is for the man, does she look at other articles as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u32	I can't ask questions back to the Chamber, but I'll do it secretly. What do you mean by other articles? Any other modality or other articles as in Chapter XIII?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u33	Let me give you a more specific explanation. The Minister speaks of separate budgets for management, maintenance and replacement. In addition, we have money for investments in the different modalities. If there appear to be deficits that cannot be dealt with flexibly within management, maintenance and replacement, is the Minister prepared to look at the rest of the budget within such a pillar, or possibly over pillars, if the need is to be met? If it is not necessary, is it not necessary, but does the Minister guarantee that there will always be enough money, wherever it comes from within the Infrastructure Fund?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u34	Mrs Van Veldhoven has put two questions in one interruption, so I shall deal with that. The first question is whether we can relate that percentage to the total budget. Of course, it always will be. If you're talking about a percentage, you always have to look at it within the total. For that, it is important to know what the budget is now. You know until 2028 what you've filled in and what you have left of free space. For the same reason, it will be open next year until 2032 and a completely different situation will arise. I think you should look at two things: what is a real percentage compared to the tasks you have and how do you deal with them when you have or no budget left? The second question is whether there can also be looked over blocks, i.e. from management and maintenance to investment or vice versa. In fact, I did so by reserving a huge management and maintenance budget at the expense of the construction budget last time. Why? Because you just knew it was coming and there wasn't so much room left that we could fill that up somewhere. Then I took it away from the investment budget. I referred that to the Chamber, because I cannot do that. If I move between the different blocks, the Chamber will always be present. And then I come to the third question. It is true that between these modalities the money always comes back, unless the Chamber says in a majority that it has to be different.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u35	Clear. Of course, a percentage by definition is always related to the total, but I was concerned about exhaustion. The question I asked in my contribution is why the Minister had used the Infrastructure Fund as a grabbelton by covering 16 million for the implementation of the Environment Act and 39 million for the rising costs of basic ICT. The VVD also mentioned a number of posts. I did not see it in the written reply or directly in the cubes. I wonder when the Minister will answer those questions. Of course, you can do that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u36	I don't know if it's a technical slide, but I owe you that for a while. Maybe I'll be given that in the air mail or it'll come back in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u37	As a result of this interruption of D66, I should like to warn against overscrewing the modalities. We all know how that goes: everyone will take money away from the driver and then they will have to go back to the train. I do not see it as such, because motorists pay enough and because they are much more important. Let's talk about that better benutten program. I just mentioned Mr Sijsling, who was so smart to call in that road adjustment to Rijkswaterstaat. I don't think that's under any of the Better Benuttens. Such a road adjustment is in the regular program, not in Better Benutten. On the contrary, the Court of Auditors criticises the Better Benutten programme, because it would not lead to concrete measurable results. On the contrary, Henk Sijsling's idea of changing this path leads to very concrete results. Does the Minister agree with me that it should be about concrete results for the motorist? And is the Minister prepared to go through this better benutten programme very well and to see if it really is about road adjustments that actually lead to fewer traffic jams?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u38	I just liked to make that move to Better Benutten, because Better Benutten is a program in which new, innovative ideas can also be applied, which can be realized quickly with a project budget. It is true that Mr Sijsling's idea is in the ordinary road maintenance. That is why I also said that Rijkswaterstaat is increasingly open to innovations in its procurement procedures. I myself strongly believe in the programme Better Benutten. Long-term infrastructure investments are based on capacity analyses. They're very focused on the highway network. But after that, traffic must always go back into the urban area. That is where the bottlenecks often arise. And for that there is the programme Beter Benutten, which can be completed very quickly with an extra exit, broadening or adaptation. There are also other measures: promoting other modalities; companies that agree with their employees not to get into rush hour but, if possible, at another time. I'll give the results to the Chamber about next month, although you don't have to pin me on that. You will see that a lot of successful initiatives have already been taken to break habit. There are specific road activities, but also, for example, the 16 companies along South Willemsvaart, which will ensure that 600 lorries per day are removed from peak traffic and that their transport will be carried out by water, which is good for other lorries, which is not possible. In that region there are also 90 trucks with sand and gravel that go on the water every day. Those are just very nice, concrete projects. So I would like to continue with Mr Madlener when the programme is available. Then he can ask about it and look at its results.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u39	Yeah, we're definitely gonna do that. It is very good that sand and gravel go by inland waterway rather than by truck, but of course that does not need to be subsidised with tax money, whereas we need money to broaden those roads. What do you call that in Dutch, that "transport shift," that transition from ship to ship, we should of course not achieve it with all kinds of artificial subsidies, but simply with agreements. Or companies can of course think for themselves that it is cheaper to do something with a ship. So we will certainly come back to this. My question was whether the Minister is prepared to include smart citizens' ideas for adapting something, or initiatives to speed up the clean-up of accidents, or to put trucks back on the ground, under Better Benutten, so as to finance those ideas and initiatives. Is she willing to open up some kind of telephone line at Rijkswaterstaat, where people can use their good ideas?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u40	I have already said that I always send in the smart initiatives I get myself and that sometimes this leads to a rejection, but very often also to an embrace of an idea. It depends entirely on where such an idea comes from and where it has to be financed. If it has anything to do with road safety, you can get it out of one pot. If it has to do with Better Benutten, you can put it out of the other pot. If it has something to do with road construction, you can put it back out of another pot. So I don't want to just pin it on that. I do not agree with you that we should not spend taxpayers' money on transferring traffic from road to water. We think it is very important to make better use of all our infrastructure. Not only do we want to make better use of the road, but we also want to make better use of the track and the water. We have said to the companies in Brabant that we will ensure that South Willemsvaart is built at a certain depth if they promise to do more water transport. This is good for inland waterway transport. It's a physical investment. It's not a road, but it's a waterway. Maybe that'll help a little bit. It is a physical investment, so you then have to do a little less on the road.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u41	I'd like to go back to the cashiers. The Minister gave a number of examples. She said there could be a cash slide between modalities. She also said it always goes back. Mrs Van Veldhoven also spoke about it. So there is great flexibility. However, you can also say that in maintenance planning something is apparently not okay, if it is so often necessary. Is there really a need for this? Can't we narrow ourselves down a little bit? We can talk about it every year, but should we not say that there cannot be a cash slide between modalities?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u42	A cash slide between the modalities is also very little. Actually, you only do that when you're left with something at the end of the year and you're short in another mode, when you know you'll have some space there in the next year. That's the only way you're gonna do it. You should always be able to link it back to the same budget one-on-one. We are trying to avoid this under-exhaustment, because that's the way it is to avoid as much as possible. That's why we're doing over-planning now. You never know if a project is running out of time. For example, you've planned a road route, but it turns out there's an archeological ship. Before you know it, you'll be a year away. I'm just saying it's pretty simple. That's why we're doing overplanning. This then leads to a debate in the Chamber about budget tension, but it has to do mainly with these slides. Again, most of the sliders are technical sliders. That's the story of a 400 million-dollar project and the question of what year you pay that to the contractor. You make an estimate at the front, but you never know exactly when to pay it. I can tell you of any project whether there is a cash drawer and at what time it is taking place. I can give you full insight into that. Because we do, because we do that exercise ourselves. I said in the WHO that I sincerely wondered whether the Chamber would like to know. I would like to give it to you if there is a political consequence, for example because a project is being exceeded, too late or too early and you name it. I'd be happy to. I would also like to tell you if it happens between modes, because it may cause the fear that money may go from water to road or from railway to waterway. The latter is, however, relatively rare.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u43	If it happens, it goes back. Can you indicate the deadline for this? Does that happen in the following year or in the following year?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u44	That depends on why the cash drawer is done. For example, we now have five cash-slides of 100 million in the framework of the national budget problems. They'll all be back in five years a year. That variant is in there, too. However, everything is clear and transparent. The hard part is that so much is happening and that's quite complex for the Chamber. That is why we agreed in the WHO that we will look together at how best to shape this, so that one can see it at a glance and the other, who wants to dive deeper into it, knows where to find it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u45	"Budget tension" is a new euphemism that I learned this year. Anyway, sensible questions have been asked about this issue. I'd like to go back to KiM, the office the minister leans on. For me it goes like this: KiM wants an ice cream and then KiM gets that from the minister. If KiM wants another ice cream, it'll get another ice cream. What KiM comes up with seems to be the starting point for the Minister to use on road widening or new cuts. My question is: is that the right route now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u46	KiM doesn't want anything. KiM is just our scientific agency doing trend analyses and helping us look into the future. It reminds us of scenario but also looks at actual developments. KiM notes that traffic growth is increasing and that even in the event of low economic growth we do not meet our own standard, which we have set in the Chamber, namely that you should not spend more than one and a half times in rush hour. That's not just KiM's observation. It has already been noted, when I had to cut the budget for infrastructure, that we would not achieve the objective of the SVIR (Structural Vision of Infrastructure and Space), namely that you should not spend more than one and a half times the journey time over a line. This was also reflected in the national capacity analyses. That was such an independent investigation. KiM doesn't ask for ice cream and the NMCA (National Market and Capacity Analysis) doesn't ask for ice cream. These are just scientific arguments, which Mr Smaling is always very happy about on other subjects. I will then use these arguments politically to say that there must be more money for more infrastructure. I could have chosen another political approach and said: I am going to tempt the whole of the Netherlands to ride my bike alone from now on. I will answer that question. If anyone wants ice cream, I want it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u47	As far as I am concerned, the political point here is that you can also choose to revise the prognosis itself. I see studies showing that young people don't want a sacred cow on the doorstep anymore. I see studies showing that 1.6 million cars will be out in ten years. I see developments like Car2Go; yesterday Greenwheels was also mentioned. Because the economy is attracting, we are suddenly releasing a lot more CO because road traffic is increasing. On the Second Maasvlakte someone looses here and there with a joystick containers. Ballast Nedam is going over the head with the reinforcement of the A50. What is the added value of all that extra transport? Shouldn't you be getting people out of traffic? There are also mobility experts who say: pull those people out of that traffic addiction now and try to get them to drive at another time, try to make them mobile or let them work at home. I don't hear the Minister about these options. My point in my first term is: why is the Minister standard behind those mobility projections?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u48	The nice thing is that Mr Smaling has indicated that young people no longer need a car. KiM also analyzed that trend. I presented that analysis in the Chamber last year. According to KiM, it is true that there are more young people who do not have a car or share a car, but that is because there are relatively more young people who are still in the study phase and are not yet in the work phase. There are also relatively more young people living in urban areas, where they can't get a parking space or anything like that. So it's true that they don't own a car for a little longer than before. However, KiM also asked them questions and they all say: when I get a job later, I just want a car and want to drive. So we have to be careful with trend analyses. Mr Smaling knows as well as I do that KiM is doing a certain analysis, but that someone else is doing another analysis. We can all give our own political judgment about it, and that often happens in the Chamber. One says, "Let's make sure people go to another mode." The other says, "Let's just make sure we build roads." I just try to follow the en-en-en approach every time. Infrastructure is important. This is also evident from the reports, such as the NMCA and the KiM-reporting. This year we see in practice that the traffic jams are already increasing. We must continue to invest and not be distracted by discussions that people will no longer want a car or that there will be a completely different world. Besides, I think Better Benutten is important. In Better Benutten people are tempted to do something else. That doesn't happen with the stick, it happens with the root. They will receive a reward if they show other behaviors instead of punishment, such as the mileage prize. We also have the program Intelligent Transportation Systems. We will discuss this further later. They're basically just new, smart ways of transportation. For example, what can you do with the self-driving cars? What about capacity, fuel consumption and safety? I bet on that, too. For me, therefore, it is not just about infrastructure. I keep pointing out that it is a very dangerous conclusion to say that we do not have to do this anymore. Some people say more roads lead to more cars. Yeah, that's always been the case. But then if you don't do anything and everyone's settled, you don't have a solution either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u49	The Minister continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u50	I say to Mr Smaling that it is precisely my policy to make the best use of all modes of transport. I do this in collaboration with the top logistics sector. We have also carried out many analyses on this. We are well aware of the qualities and possibilities of the different modalities. As a government, we also offer room for choice, so that companies can make efficient choices when using means of transport. That is also what happens in practice. For example, there is a company that has developed a smart planning method for logistics service providers. As a result, five large importers will now be transporting fruit and vegetable refrigerated containers by inland waterway to Barendrecht. Previously, that route was travelled by truck; now 54% of the cargo can be transported by ship. That saves 6,000 containers on the road and saves 18 tons of CO per year. In addition, the containers go full instead empty back to the Maasvlakte. But I'm sticking with it: you have to do that by luring and not by forcing. In the past, it has never been possible to force people to switch to a different mode. The moment you let them see that they benefit themselves, either financially or in another way, they will. Now on smart infrastructure and ITS. As far as I am concerned, there are many opportunities for the Netherlands in this area. Several MPs have asked about this. Mr Hoogland used a beautiful expression "the internet of things." That should not be translated as "the Internet of Things," because that would not cover the load. Not only are there opportunities to promote flow, but there are also opportunities for road safety and there are economic opportunities for our automotive industry with 50,000 employees. I would like to give some room for these new developments, such as self-driving transport. I say to Mrs Visser that we want to remove all obstacles to innovation in legislation and regulation. She has asked for more target regulation. That is a very important element for me, and I will certainly see to it. This also applies, for example, to the creation of experimental space, because what we are inventing today, what we are allowed to do and not allowed to do, will be overtaken by new technologies tomorrow. I am also working on this, because it is my ambition to be an international leader with smart infrastructure, to make the Netherlands a testing ground of the world. I am also saying this to Mr Houwers who has asked questions about this. We have tests in Amsterdam and Brabant that involve tens of thousands of road users. ITS deployment can contribute to a 10% better flow. We are in the process of setting up a smart corridor with Germany and Austria to make freight traffic smarter from A to B. We do this together with those countries, because they have the automotive industry and we have the chip industry. It is simply a very nice cooperation to see if you can achieve a good standard in Europe. I have already adapted the regulations in the Netherlands to test self-driving transport on public roads. In addition, we are committed to changing existing laws and regulations, including in an international context. I think that's important. As President of the European Parliament, I am organising an informal Council on smart mobility in April with the aim of signing a declaration setting out the rules to be amended. Reference has already been made to the Vienna Convention on Road Traffic. That's an international treaty from 1968. It states that you must keep your hands on the wheel at all times, but also your hands on the reins. That already indicates the time in which this treaty was made. There are also European rules which state that automatic functions are only allowed below 12 km/h. I think you're going faster on a merry-go-round at the carnival. So that seems a little old-fashioned. Think also of international rules on the distance between vehicles. That rule is now different from one country to another. We don't want people to have to have another security system in their cars at once when they cross the border. That used to be the case with the train. We do not want this to happen to self-driving cars, for example, that people in Germany have to switch to a different distance. We just have to deal with all these things too, because we don't want an update to be needed at every border. We're getting a better picture, but the list isn't exhausting. Eventually, you're gonna have to experiment and try to figure out what you're up against. This will be reviewed at international level. Fortunately, there are countries around us that are also getting faster on this subject, and where there are questions about liability, about privacy and about data protection that need to be adapted. The developments are going very fast. There is no time to waste; we must start with the things we know. At the same time, we must also be aware that we will not have everything ready next year, because we do not know what is going to happen about a number of things. Last week, the RDW granted a type-approval to Tesla for a car that corrects itself on the highway. Tesla's doing this through an update. So we see that the chip is at least as important as the engine of the car. I'm in favour of the "learning by doing" approach. I say to Mr Hoogland that we do this responsibly, of course. It is precisely by testing that we learn a great deal about the framework conditions that are needed to implement this development safely. This means that, in practice, we pay particular attention to the way in which we assess the safety of the vehicle, the relationship between the car, the infrastructure and the driver and the impact on the driver and other road users. I say to Mrs Visser and Mr Hoogland that we are now working hard to have a well-functioning self-driving fleet in a number of years' time. I have talked about legislation and regulations, but both Members also asked me about infrastructure. What do you have to do about that infrastructure to play on those self-driving cars? At the moment, our current infrastructure seems to be suitable for self-driving car traffic. This also shows Tesla's software update. Further development of smart mobility will require more. For example, in order to improve traffic safety, smart cars need to be provided with up-to-date information. Those cars should also be able to communicate with the environment. It is therefore important to keep the roads smart enough to do so. How to make that possible, we are testing in projects such as ghost files, smart intersections and the ITS Corridor of the Netherlands, Germany and Austria. I am in favour of making our infrastructure as smart as possible and seeing what we can do about it in our regulations. I shall now look at Mrs Visser, because she asked for it, as did Mr Hoogland. We also need to see how we can adapt our procurement pathways accordingly. There is still much unclear about the role of smart cars versus infrastructure. The car industry actually says: you don't have to do anything, because we communicate with each other. I want to safeguard the public interest in traffic management and safety. So I am not ready to pass on that responsibility to third parties. As a government, I want to play a role in this. So in the next few days it's a bit of searching, in the vein of: what do you have to do and what don't you have to do by, up and by the road? Should there be matrix boards and speed signs? Do I have to put a VCP next to it or a cell phone network or something? I'm a little looking for that, so I can't quite say what to do yet, but just to leave the rules open, I think we can get on with it. So I'm going to finish this before I move on to speed policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u51	We often hear the Minister very enthusiastic about this, even now. I admire the Minister for that. The vision is really focused on the future: how is it going to be and what should we do now? Then, of course, a "but" always follows. In this case, this is the chapter of the energy agreement on mobility and transport. I'm sure that's what the minister has hanging over her bed. It contains a section 9.4 on short-term measures. The energy agreement was concluded a while ago. Below is a point 6: public-private market preparation. By 2014, there will be a public-private programme that provides a framework for the development of business cases and products for the transition to sustainable mobility. In addition, energy-saving technologies are being implemented more quickly. As with the question we have just heard about "self-directing," the question of "public-private" is now being asked. With the same enthusiasm for the future, the Minister asks: what do I have to do and what can the market do to speed up the implementation of energy-saving technologies? It has also been agreed in the Energy Agreement that this should generate 15 to 20 petajoule energy savings. The Minister has had two years to look at this, so I am very curious to see how it is progressing with this public-private market preparation and accelerating energy-saving technologies.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u52	I don't have it hanging over my bed. I know, however, that we are currently being evaluated. I do not know whether this evaluation has already been carried out, but if I am allowed to do so, I will come back to that at a later date. By the way, I am always in favour of exciting the market for producing energy-saving products. The debate should not be about cars versus public transport, but much more about what a car and public transport do for clean air. On that basis, you should have the discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u53	That's exactly why I picked out these two. Chapter 7 deals with leading edge new technologies. Chapter 6 is about the public-private accelerated implementation of energy-saving technologies. I thought these were the things the minister should address.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u54	I come to the speeds that we continue on our roads. My policy is to increase the speed limit on motorways to 130 km/h where possible, within the framework of road safety and the environment. This can now be done on about half the roads, 49%. The goal is to eventually introduce the 130 km/h at 77% of the motorways. That's what the coalition agreement says. It is no longer a wishful thinking, but the new standard that we now have. We were not yet able to roll out that speed everywhere; in a number of places this was not yet possible. The government agreement also states that speed can be increased within the limits and framework conditions of road safety and the environment. So we're increasing the speed at the moment it's possible. With the entry into force of the PAS, the Programmatic Approach Nitrogen, it has become possible to increase speed on more roads than before, as was the case with the A2, in response to a question from Mrs Visser. In the short term, the section between Holendrecht and Vinkeveen, where in my opinion the greatest problems are felt in society, can rise the speed in the evening and night to 130 km/h, based on the PAS conditions. There is one reason for me to wait for the speed increase there. I want to await the outcome of the trial on the increase in speed to 130 km/h in the evening and the night on the southern part, the section between Vinkeveen and Maarssen, which was the subject of yesterday's debate. I expect that statement by November 20th. The reality is that there are new facts and circumstances. 130 km/h is now the legal standard. Cars have become cleaner. My commitment is to see if we can make the 130 km/h permanent. So we want to equalise the situation not only for the evening and the night on the northern part, but also to realize the 130 km/h during the day and at night over the entire route of the A2. I think that we can come a long way here, even within the natural and environmental limits. However, some additional investments will be needed. A noise barrier there will be one of the last barriers. The cars have become much cleaner. The PAS conditions on nitrogen no longer cause problems. In a number of places the sound will be the problem. On this point, the House has once said to me that I should not make a budget for the roll-out of the maximum speed of 130 km/h; I am only allowed to introduce this speed in places where this is possible without a budget. If the Chamber looks at that differently now, I thought I saw it in a broad sense yesterday, then I would like the Chamber to give a new ruling on that. I can then proceed with the total roll-out of the maximum speed of 130 km/h.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u55	This point has also been raised in general consultations, but it has still not been resolved. The Minister said in the AO Environment: we make our calculations on the basis of real measurements. In the case of questions, it was found that these were real measurements on the road; the Minister repeated this at a few moments, including in the Pauw TV programme. I've gone through all the reports to find out if Euro 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 have actually been measured on the road. I can only find that a few cars have been tested with Euro 5. However, this has mainly been done to measure the measuring equipment. The test ended prematurely and then they started measuring with Euro 6. This test ended prematurely and then they started measuring on Euro 6. It is really all on the road; but from Euro 1, 2, 3, 4 and from the rest of Euro 5 I can't find it. I put a rapple on that and asked the Minister for that information. I would still like to receive the missing data on the real road tests.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u56	I know Mrs Van Tongeren and was already prepared for this question. In the debate I indicated that the tests for Euro 3 and 4 did indeed just take place on the roller bank, but those for Euro 5 and 6 were on the road. I also said we'd like to send the results to the Chamber. Mrs Mansveld has done the same recently. It sent the Court the TNO reports showing how these Euro 5 and Euro 6 vehicles are measured on the road. So yes, Euro 5 and Euro 6 cars are also measured on the road. This does not only happen on the road, but on the road and on the roller bench. I understand that it is difficult to find the data in the reports for the Euro 5 part. I understand, because they're technical reports. For Euro 5 it was also not visible at a glance that there was also a test on the road. I would like to refer Members to point 3.1 on page 12 of the report of 7 December 2012 with number R11099. For Euro 6 the data were easier to find. They are in the report dated 5 December 2013 in the report with number R11891. Strongly varying conditions on the public road cannot all be mimicked on the roller bench. That is also why TNO measures on the public road. These measurements are carried out with so-called PEMS, portable emission measurement systems. These measurements are carried out by TNO in the region of Helmond. There they have a fixed route that they use, in which all types of roads are city, highway, highway.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... From the measurement data obtained in this way, TNO derive emission factors used for the calculation of air quality. I read it now. If you have any further questions about this, I am prepared to put you in touch with people who know exactly what is true. I have explicitly asked myself because I heard you say: I can find it for Euro 6, but not for Euro 5. That is what I have been given these pages and paragraphs on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u57	I am pleased that the Minister and I agree that Euro 1, 2, 3 and 4 have not actually been tested on the road. The Minister and I both know that a large part of the fleet is still made up of those cars. A smaller part of the fleet consists of Euro 5 and an even smaller part of Euro 6. The tests for Euro 5 are mainly carried out on commercial vehicles. On the numbers the minister tells me, there's a lot of commercial vehicles. Those are vans, not cars. Let us say that perhaps half of the Euro 5 has also been tested, then at least 80% of Dutch diesel cars have not been tested on the road. The Minister already sees my next question coming: I would like us to do so. After all, we now know that some car manufacturers are cheating on the chips. We knew that in the Netherlands in 2013, but unfortunately nothing happened to that at the time. We can't fix that for the past anymore, but we can for now. Certainly a minister who has plans to increase the speed limit even further should, in my opinion, make sure that we really know about all diesel cars what their behaviour is on the road. I'm glad that's already happened in part, for 5V and 6, but for the other cars that's not the case. Is the Minister prepared to make sure that this is mapped out for all the types we have driving around in the Netherlands, so that the models with which we now calculate air quality are really calibrated to the real situation on the road?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u58	We ask TNO to make calculations for actual emissions and to take measurements of actual emissions based on roller bench tests and road tests. We ask TNO precisely because we want reliable information. In the Netherlands, we do not rely on the brochure. We are assuming real emissions. On that basis, we determine our road policy. Because you don't follow all cars in the Netherlands with a meter the whole time, it always remains an estimate, but you have to try to do as many type tests as possible and so on. If we are asking TNO to give us real measurements, I must be able to trust that they are doing them right. If that is the case, then I do not know, because I am not so deeply in it because it was the path of the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs that they themselves question whether there have been car brands in the past that could not come out well because there has been cheating, I assume that they will do so in the next test. That is different from the fact that the Chamber is asking me to prescribe to TNO how to do their job. We report to TNO that they must ensure that actual emissions are measured and that they give us a representative report on the effects on the Dutch roads and the climate. We must be able to rely on that. Honestly, I don't want to go so deep into technology right now. If the Chamber so wishes, we can talk about what is and is not in the Chamber some other time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u59	The minister started with speeds and a whole exegesis on how the tests are done. I think that is all the more reason to carry out the real-driving emissions test as soon as possible. I listened carefully to the Minister and I think I heard a number of things. I heard her say that it did not enter into force until 1 July this year and therefore offers room for manoeuvre. I also heard her say there's a statement from the Chamber. She says that it is possible if the Court wanted it and it is possible within the standards that apply, both in terms of noise and air quality, but that this means that it should take a number of measures to facilitate it. The Minister notes that there is a statement of principle that it cannot be done. She actually says that if the Chamber wanted it to be different, it would have to come up with a different statement of principle. Is that right? Did I get it that well?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u60	I will always be neat within the safety and environmental measures. Whether you are in favour of speeding up or not, you must always be transparent in it and also fair. I have sometimes reduced the speed limit where it was not possible, but I would also like to put it up where it is possible. It's possible because there's been a change of pace. It can also be done by, for example, putting a sound screen at a certain point. That could not be done now, because the Chamber said: you may be 130 km/h, but you cannot spend money on it because there is no specific budget in the government agreement. It's not about big money. If the Chamber says 'please make it all 130 km/h at once, because otherwise it is unclear', I would like to have the space to take those measures. I do need a ruling from the Chamber for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u61	That's important. In June, I asked written questions on this subject in order to understand what is additional, including investment. I hear the Minister say that she has to find out, so she can't directly link an amount or measure to it. It says that, if the Chamber so wishes, it will need a statement of principle stating that it must find out and then seek a solution and inform the Chamber accordingly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u62	Sure, I'm not putting an entire device to work to come up with all possible solutions when I can't take a step on that. The Chamber keeps telling me that I have to make sure that this 130 km/h is simply introduced everywhere. I'll do that. I always remain neatly within the environmental and safety requirements that exist. If I have a solution to remove one of these bottlenecks, I would like to do so in order to ensure that, in the end, there is more clarity for the driver.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u63	Just a factual correction. The Chamber never says, "Do 130 km/h everywhere." But that aside. The Minister says she's going to see if she can get on this route and that it might cost a little money. We don't care about speed. We are more concerned with the clarity of the motorist. But is this also opening the door to spending money everywhere in the country in order to achieve this on all routes? I would not be in favour of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u64	It is also, of course, dependent on the Court's own rulings, whether they are limited to part or more general. I myself do not intend to do so at all speeds. Because I think you often have to work with work as well. That means if you're working somewhere and there's space at the time, you have to do it. I am very attached to the argument that you want to have clarity for the motorist in the end. There are a few tracks, such as the A2 and also the A4, where there is a lot of uncertainty. I myself would prefer to remove that ambiguity by working there at one speed. Am I going to do it all over the country and then open up all the roads and put up screens? No, because I think we should just do that smartly, so at a time when you're already at it. Are there any points of interest? Are there any points I would like to get to work? Yes, the A2 and the A4 are two good routes for this. However, I would like to say once again that I also need to look at what is needed, what is possible and whether it remains neatly within the limits. Because I also want to abide by the rules of the game we have agreed on. I just see opportunities and opportunities to do it, but on the other hand I do need a statement to go further in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u65	Thank you, that's clear. The Minister sees limited possibilities to do so. Is it prepared to report what possibilities it sees and is it prepared to submit to the Chamber every time where it will do so? In this way, the Chamber can be taken into account in making the considerations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u66	We are now entering a huge debate as a result, because of course I do not know what the Chamber is going to come up with. Suppose the Chamber does indeed move me to do so, then I will of course just make an analysis for at least the A2 and perhaps for the A4. In that I will look at what should happen there and in how much time that would be possible. It may also be that, for example, the A4 is not yet on the agenda, or will be on the agenda later. In any case, these are the two paths that are most in my head when it comes to the lack of clarity for the citizen. I do not think, however, that it would be useful if, for example, the entire adaptation of the A67 to the Chamber would require us to submit to the House the construction of every little sound screen. Anyway, that's up to the Chamber itself. She has to decide whether she wants to. However, I think it is much more important whether there are one or two major routes that we would like to work on. For the rest and for the future, let's just do it at a time when it's smart and it's convenient.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u67	For the sake of clarity, I would like to ask the question that I asked Mrs Visser yesterday. Last Tuesday and Wednesday in particular the VVD seemed to suggest in many media: best drivers, we got out and we arranged for you to drive 130 km/h between Amsterdam and Utrecht on the A2. They wrote, "We're just gonna do it." Yesterday, however, it appeared that it was really only a question of asking the Minister if she wanted to see how that could be done. Now I hear the Minister say: we are going to investigate this and I do want to stay within the framework. I also hear the spokesman for the Labour Party say: if this does not open the door and if this is not a reason to do so in more places. Has the Minister, the Ministry or an official been involved in this coalition consultation which stated that it was arranged for the motorist? The latter was the message we received from the VVD via the media.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u68	I have only seen that the VVD calls on me to introduce a maximum speed of 130 km/h as soon as possible. That is not news, by the way, because I think that is what she has been shouting all along. That does not just call for the VVD, because I think Mr Van Helvert himself called it in the newspaper.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u69	Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u70	I think I even heard the PvdA screaming when it was about the A2. Then the question is asked: Minister, what can you do with it? I'm a driver. Then I say: I see opportunities for the night at Holendrecht, but I think it is nice to wait for the outcome of the trial. It is not news either when I say that I am working on a programme that aims to introduce that standard permanently on various parts. However, I also see that I am likely to run into a number of investments in time. I say: I would do well, but, dear Chamber, I would also like to see butter in the fish. I also heard Members speak enthusiastically about this yesterday, so I hope they still are. This is my part. If Mr Van Helvert wishes to speak about the publications of the VVD, he must discuss them with the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u71	So the minister wasn't involved in that consultation? Let me get this straight. Indeed, on 19 August I asked the Minister about this route and the high number of fines that are being imposed there. I also asked her whether she agrees with me that a road map should congruate at maximum speed. So if you have such a wide motorway lying around, shouldn't you be able to drive faster? I understand now that the Minister wants to stick to that within the framework. At what time does she expect this to be achieved? The VVD in the last week suggested that it was actually arranged immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u72	On the path Holendrecht you could get to work quite quickly, provided the judge's ruling is not negative. You'll need a couple of weeks to make things available for inspection and the like. You don't have to make any more investments for that either. That depends, of course, on the verdict. There's no way it's gonna work out. Everywhere 130 km/h? I'm not sure. Then I need to identify exactly what needs to be done to achieve that. If you're gonna make that choice, you're gonna have to do it carefully. I have been doing this for a long time now for more parts of the Dutch road network. I have never asked for the House's budget to be reduced. I've always waited nicely for another step to be taken. There is just one road route that a large part of the Netherlands is awake and about which we are constantly questioned. I also understand that the complex is if one part is allowed one speed and the other. The Chamber keeps asking me about it. I can speed things up, but I'm gonna have to spend some money. I'd be happy to, but I'll just have to map that out. I don't have that all ready in advance. I hope that at the end of this year I will be able to say what is needed for this. It's not about building new roads, so I don't think it's gonna take that long. But again, it's an assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u73	The Minister indicated that he wanted to stay within the environmental area, but it is not unlimited. The Minister referred to the Programmatic Approach Nitrogen, the PAS. We're gonna have to stay in there. There is scope for development within the PAS, but it should be divided between motorways, agriculture, industrial sites, industrial sites, housing projects and so on. How does the Minister strike a balance?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u74	That is what we have done in the preparation of the PAS. It has been agreed with various parties what scope there is for speed increases, for road development, for agriculture and for industry.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u75	Of course, that sounds fantastic. However, I remember visiting a farmer in the vicinity of a nature reserve. He said, "I'm stuck here, I can't expand because there's a road project next door. Of course, there will have to be an overall balance, but if we bring the speed to 130 km/h at 77% of the roads in the Netherlands, a considerable number of farmers will be affected, and I am not talking about provincial roads or industrial sites. I get the impression that the PAS is almost limitless. A speed increase to 130 km/h on 77% of the roads is impossible. Today I also read that from 100 km/h to 130 km/h means half more nitrogen, and that for those few minutes! Aren't there much more important things to spend on the environment? I would just like to mention the port of Rotterdam. It should also be important for the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u76	That's very important to me, too. The port of Rotterdam with the potential expansion has also been discussed. The negotiations on the PAS have taken several years. I do not know if you are on Mrs Dijksma's committee, but it has dealt with how this has been further developed. The various interests have been taken into account: the interests of industry, infrastructure and farmers. It also looked at the desired expansions in the areas of roads, agriculture, industry and space to be distributed. Existing projects in the MIRT had to fit in, but they also looked at how it could be even better and more efficient. The car industry is getting much cleaner very quickly. As a result, the amount of nitrogen has decreased enormously. When you're talking about doubling, you're talking about doubling a limited amount of emissions, fortunately also with fine dust. However, there is still a problem with cars on CO. In this category of cars we have seen much less reduction in recent years. That is an interesting challenge for the future. It is precisely because the car has become relatively much cleaner that more space has been created. Industry and agriculture will need to be motivated to consider how to combat nitrogen emissions, so that you will eventually have more space to distribute. However, you must always stay within the space that is before it. That goes for the PAS, the NSL, and actually for everything. We have made a division together, so I cannot conjure up the part of another, and another cannot conjure up the part that we want to use for infrastructure. We have tried to achieve a proportionate distribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u77	The Minister just said that there is an interesting challenge in the field of CO. That is exactly what I have a question about. I would like to recommend that beautiful chapter of the energy agreement. Maybe it's something for the bedside table or for the bed. The energy agreement has agreed that the government is committed to a CO reduction in transport. By 2020, a CO reduction of 1.3 to 1.7 megatons should be achieved compared to trend trends. It is therefore necessary to reverse the trend in transport in order to reduce CO emissions. In the fast driving that the Minister is committed to, emissions increase exponentially as you go faster. The Minister knows that, too. Between 100 km/h and 130 km/h there is a difference of 50% in emissions. I would like to know from the Minister whether she says, like on the other subjects: no, of course, these developments ensure that we remain within the agreements we have made, including the agreements on transport relating to the CO emissions contained in the energy agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u78	I think Mrs Van Tongeren is confusing a number of things. She was talking about CO and she was talking about 50% difference, while Mrs Dik-Faber just said that it made a 50% difference in nitrogen emissions. I don't have it right now, but I've always learned that the increase from 120 km/h to 130 km/h results in about 0.4 megatons of emissions on the 20 megatons emitted by traffic in total. That indicates a bit of relativity. Emissions to the A2 are a small percentage. A doubling of 0.1 to 0.2 may be a doubling, but you have to keep the order of magnitude in mind. So I think that Mrs Van Tongeren is confusing nitrogen emissions and CO emissions. Mrs Van Tongeren also asked if I would stick to the energy agreement. I think that's a much more important question. We have made agreements in the energy agreement. We have said that we will do everything in our power to achieve these agreements. Mr Kamp is working on that. Mrs Mansveld was actively working on that. I know that paragraph from the past. I know we're evaluating him now. I am always told that we are going to achieve these objectives, but if there are difficulties or complexities in them, this will be reflected in the evaluation and then we will have to work with the various parties to improve or strengthen them. We do not intend to abide by the energy agreement. We have already achieved a lot of positive results in terms of traffic. We need to look at how we can make a cost-effective contribution to achieving positive results in the areas where this is not yet the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u79	I was talking about the difference between 100 km/h and 130 km/h. Of course there is a much bigger difference between driving at 120 km/h and 130 km/h. Anyway, let's not argue about the numbers. The goal is indeed the most important. I understand that the Minister says that the CO reduction agreed for 2020 will be achieved from 1.3 to 1.7 megatons. Is the Minister prepared to outline to the Chamber how we are going to do that? In transport, I see only an increase in traffic supply and an increase in speed and not concrete measures limiting CO emissions in traffic, but I may have missed certain measures or effects. Is the Minister prepared to outline in a letter or in a report which is already coming, how this reduction will be achieved? Can she take us in there?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u80	The energy agreement will be dealt with by Minister Kamp. He does so in total to ensure that all modalities and all attempts to reach the energy agreement can be seen in conjunction. I don't feel like pulling one piece out of this because it happens to be about traffic. Minister Kamp does this in total and provides interim evaluation. If it shows that things are not being achieved, he will ensure that we come up with additional measures or other measures than we have agreed. I think that's the best way. A question has been asked about the motion on the development of the mobility approach. The Secretary of State did that by presenting the fuel vision. Various parties are working on this. There will be all kinds of proposals for what we can do to save on that. That's going to affect CO emissions. On this basis, we can say what the new agreements are and how we can shape such a mobility approach. This is one of the parts of it; there are more in it. I don't want to pull a piece of it to my wallet right now. This does not mean that I am not watching the developments in traffic, but I am not going to deal with that piece separately here while the energy agreement with Minister Kamp has recently been discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u81	I find that constant exaggeration by GroenLinks strange. I drive on the A16 every week, where 130 km/h was introduced instead of 120 km/h. I notice that traffic seems much quieter. I think there's a lot less traffic jams. The trucks still run 85 km/h. What is it in the Netherlands? So it doesn't matter. A lot of traffic just drives 120 km/h. On the left lane there may be a bit more occasionally 130 km/h, but that was also done before, I can assure you. In my opinion, the average is not at all such a big difference as GroenLinks always suggests. So let's put that into perspective. It is therefore relatively easy to enter the A2 130 km/h with some minor adjustments to the sound screens. That doesn't have to cost so much money. Why hasn't the Minister done that much before? Or was it not allowed by Mr Dijsselbloem, who wanted to collect all these fines so badly?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u82	No. There is a motion from the Chamber that says that no money should be spent on the introduction of 130 km/h other than when we are still working on a road. When we introduced the 130 km/h standard, that motion was adopted by a majority of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u83	The Minister can always send proposals to the Chamber if she does not agree with that motion, but she did not. It's a sort of "the Chamber rules and controls the Chamber," a reversal of reality. There are big problems on the A2 with fines. People don't understand that they can only go 100 km/h on a ten-lane road. It's easy to fix, but it's not happening. I would also like to put a question to the PvdA Group, because she too has said in the newspaper that the coalition is going to solve this. I'm hearing a retreating movement. I have no faith in it at all. Will the PvdA deliver on its promise by making a few adjustments to enable the Minister to introduce 130 km/h very quickly?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u84	I hope Mr Madlener knows me as a minister who is not so patient. If the Chamber thinks that I should improve the image for the motorist by introducing that unambiguous speed, that is fine. I can go a long way in that, but I can't say with 100% certainty that it can be done anywhere at every kilometer. However, I would like to do so, also within the rules we have agreed on. All I need is for this motion to be overruled by a new ruling from the Chamber. In doing so, I deliberately ask you to do so, precisely in order to have that opportunity. The question to the PvdA group must be put by Mr Madlener in a different way, because tonight I would like to entertain the Chamber and also continue my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u85	That's right. The Minister continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u86	Some questions have been asked about the peaks. For example, Mr Madlener suggests the plan to stop with narrow 2.5-metre-wide peak strips, for example on the A15, and to upgrade them to safe wide strips. What matters to me is that we choose to increase accessibility without compromising security. I've had regular investigations conducted into the safety of peak lanes. In general, it appears that safety is sufficient. I have continued attention to that. As far as I am concerned, splash strips are not the Haarlemmer oil for more accessibility. They were a problem solution when a few years ago my predecessors found that there was no room left, given the large amount of emissions, to build road infrastructure. In order not to lock everything up, a number of these assistance units were then chosen to be converted into peaks. That's actually a temporary relief on the roads. You could get rid of all those shrubs... real pieces. We'll do that when we're dealing with a section of the road. For example, we did that with the A10. I do not do that everywhere, because there is a list of roads that I think should be built first. My preference for the large missing links is known. I think they're gonna solve a lot more than just an extra job. If I'm going to work on the road, I'm going to see how we can broaden the lane. You can't just broaden that, but first there's a road route, with a say in it. It costs money. It's all a matter of priorities. That's what we're gonna be talking about in a day's time, when it comes to the MIRT. Mrs Visser asked questions about the clarity of peaks, whether or not whispered by Mr Bolkestein, who sat next to her. Mr Bolkestein's influence is unabated. That does me good, as a liberal minister. We are always looking at the best and safest deployment of peaks, for example by extending the opening times, lower speeds and permanent deployment of the plus strips. Once again, I am concerned about the real solution of good accessibility, as I have just outlined. When we are broadening the route of a highway, we sometimes take it with us, if we can, but I would prefer to have the major missing links first. To broaden the peak you also need a route decision, budget, time and so on. Mrs Visser also asked if I would be willing to include the provincial roads in the MIRT as part of the permanent MIRT meeting. I consult with the region every year on projects under the MIRT. Area agendas will also be drawn up. The national and regional challenges are always examined at the same time. Those related tasks are also mentioned in the MIRT project overview. This also applies to the making of agreements on projects. The main road network and the underlying road network are considered in conjunction. If I'm going to broaden a little bit, we should always look at what that means for the underlying road network. I would like to mention a number of examples, which can be two ways. The Rhineland-Palatinate is a provincial road of interest to the national road network. The Empire contributes significantly to this, because the construction of the Rhineland route also has consequences for the branching on the A4 and the A44. The extended A15 is a national road, but it is of great importance for the stool of the underlying road network. That is why the region is making a significant contribution to achieving it. Sometimes I contribute to a provincial project and sometimes a province contributes to a national project. Then you have to ensure good access to Lelystad Airport. There have been agreements between the Rijk and the region on investment in the main road network, the underlying road network and even in O.V. These were also mentioned in the MIRT project overview. It's a good question, but I feel like we're already doing it. If this is not sufficiently clear, I will see how we can improve the information on this issue. Then there are a few other questions that I will deal with under the heading of accessibility. Mr Hoogland has asked a question about mileage fraud. He suggested that the current protocol should be adapted in the import inspection of cars, so that the RDW would also be obliged to indicate on the car documents the mileage actually travelled. The DMV can only tell from a car how many kilometers it has driven on the mileage counter in the car. Of course, that can be cheated. There is no other way to find out the actual mileage than by the car itself. That's every time it's done. In the case of repairs, the mileage is passed through the garage to the RDW. In the Netherlands, therefore, fraud involving mileage levels has been made almost impossible. I say "almost" because of course you can always have smarter than smart again. In the case of imported cars, the RDW can record the mileage in the car. If an apk report is supplied from abroad, the RDW may assume that the inspection authority has indicated the actual mileage. The RDW can also indicate that there is serious doubt about the values given about the car. He can then put "no logic" on the report. Unfortunately, we do not get the mandatory mileage from every country at the apk. From 2018 this will be regulated at EU level, so from that year on, countries will have to exchange the registration of the mileage at the apk. The exchange of such information still needs to be regulated in a regulation. The debate on this has not yet been concluded in the Member States, so we do not yet know exactly how this will go. At least it's getting closer. So the RDW has the opportunity to do this for countries where those cars come from and where they get all that data. This is not yet the case for a number of countries, but in the long term it will be. I think that Mr Hoogland has made an important point, because of course you need to know what you are buying. He also asked a question about the use of the bike, and was therefore the only one. He asked about my ambitions in the field of electric bike. Can I, for example, embrace the Fietsersbond's agenda or actively support it to connect bike highways and nodes? I agree with him that the bicycle makes a very important contribution to our mobility. That certainly applies to the urban network. I may be known as a minister who loves the car, but I always say that I am concerned about the mobility of cars between urban areas. In the urban area you need much more than that; there the bike, the d and so on play an important role in getting people from A to B. We also pay a lot of attention from the programme Better Benutten and a lot of money on the bike. At the moment there is about 150 million of well-known cycling plans. Of this amount, the majority is for cycling infrastructure, including for regional routes. However, think also of actions to encourage cycling. We also invest in spacious bicycle parking spaces at the major stations, but that is already known to the Chamber because I have told you before. In addition, fast cycling routes are a very good tool to make cycling even more attractive. I therefore support the construction of more speed bike routes through contributions from the Better Benutten programme and through an active participation in the Tour de Force Agenda Bike. The Fietsersbond is also directly involved in Tour de Force. So he can bring in his schedule for fast cycling routes there. I'd like to continue with the trail now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u87	There is another interruption, the last of Mrs Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u88	I just wanted to say that one more question from me about The New Driving has not been answered. Will the Minister now answer that question or in the category "other" somewhere at the end?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u89	I can answer that question by heart. I think Mrs Van Tongeren specifically asked yesterday whether this was introduced among drivers. I don't know that for all the drivers. During the debate, I had a moment with my own driver. He indicated that this is part of the driving programs they get. They receive regular training and lessons. I'll get his app. I hope he's watching now. He wrote that it is part of the driving training and that there are many aspects that correspond: quiet driving, regular checking of tire pressure, anticipation. Only switching on quickly does not apply, because they all drive a vending machine, which is a difference with other cars. From my earlier period, when I worked at a company, I remember that we also received e-mail modules about Het Nieuwe Rijden, for example. I think Mrs Van Tongeren asked me to make a financial contribution to this. In recent years, we have contributed financially to this. We've always been working on it with a lot of enthusiasm. We've done a lot about it. You probably remember The Dukes of Hazzard. At that time, we agreed that a number of industry organisations, such as RAI, would draw this programme. They're in the process of creating a program for it right now. I'm just gonna say it out of my head. If there's anything missing, I'll come back to it later. Then I'm gonna find out and I'm gonna find it. In the coming period there will be a lot of debates on the topicality of ProRail and Fyra. I think that is why the number of questions has fallen short. I would like to comment on the questions asked. The government's commitment is and will continue to be to improve the public transport network. Many major changes have already started in recent years, including the Long Term Track Agenda and the new concessions. I will go straight to Mr Smaling's question on the merger of NS and ProRail. Mr Madlener also asked a question about this. I have heard the question many times before. Also during the time I had this in my wallet, it was discussed. Is it possible to solve the problem by bringing the companies together? This merger of these companies has been investigated many times in recent years. The Secretary of State has devoted a whole programme to it. In the end, it has decided that there are too many disadvantages to a merger. Think of the relationship between NS and other carriers on the railways in relation to the railway manager, but also of the unrest that such a merger brings to the organisations. Instead of a merger, also in the Chamber, the choice was made for better cooperation and clearer agreements on performance and shareholdership. That choice was then discussed with the Chamber as part of the Long Term Rail Agenda and she agreed to it. We are currently in the process of carrying out that agreement. I also believe that this will ultimately lead to better results. Actually, I'd like to say as little as possible about the Fyra. That is a matter of courtesy, because the Chamber first talks with the Fyra Committee of Inquiry and then with the Cabinet. I realise that the Committee of Inquiry's report also talks about the planning of the railways. Of course, we will study this carefully and also discuss it with the Chamber. So the subject comes back. In the meantime, I say to Mrs Dik-Faber that we are in the process of prioritising current programmes and projects on the track. There are many wishes of the regions, of NS and of ProRail. These cannot all be dealt with at the same time until 2028. There are concerns about electrification of regional lines, accessibility with the regional Ov around Utrecht, the reliability of timetables and so on. Many parties are, of course, asking for more resources for rail, including the Christian Union. Other parties are asking for more money for the roads. There are also a lot of questions about this from the region. I make the choice as set out in the 2016 budget. I think it is a balanced package, with attention being paid to accessibility by road, rail, water and bike. This is also in line with the agreements made by both coalition parties on the distribution of funds between different modes of transport. Mrs Visser asked for an extension to the hustle and bustle at Schiphol Plaza. The airport is indeed a major traffic hub, especially as part of the entire north wing of the Randstad. We're investing heavily in that region right now. Think of OV SAAL (Public Transport Schiphol-Amsterdam-Almere-Lelystad), the A1, the A6, the A9 and the Zuidas. These investments also benefit the accessibility of Schiphol. However, I also share the analysis of the VVD that the crowds are increasing. In 2014, there was also a MIRT investigation into Schiphol Plaza. That is what 1 million has been earmarked for. In the near future, we will look with the parties involved at how we can best shape the renewal of Schiphol Plaza. I would also like to include alternative forms of financing. Mr Hoogland of the PvdA asked the same question. Mr Van Helvert of the CDA is curious about the international rail summit.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u90	I see that Mrs Dik-Faber has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u91	I've got the factsheet right here. It says that the budget for road infrastructure will increase significantly in the coming years to 2 billion. With the railways, the budget goes down from 1 billion to 400 million. Now I understand that the Minister may be making different choices than the Christian Union would, but with a very small shift from road to rail, we can deal tremendously with the regions, which are now really the victims of the choices that are being made. There is incredibly much investment in the PHS (Programma High Frequency Track) and the provinces do not recognize themselves in the recalibrate that has taken place. They're really out of the boat right now. That's not supposed to happen, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u92	In my opinion, there has always been a balance between road and rail investment in the past. You may wonder if this distribution is balanced because many more people use the road than the rail, but rail is relatively expensive infrastructure. So be it, that division is made. I didn't bring those slides up as a minister either. A secretary of state of PvdA wouldn't just let it happen that money goes out of the budget for the road to that for the rail. If there is more budget for the road in the coming years than for the railroad, this has to do with cash slides. This means that some things on the track cannot be spent now, for example because they were still being investigated and were not yet ready to be realized. The proposal made by Mrs Dik-Faber actually goes on. She says: we take some out of the budget for the road and transfer it to the budget for the rail. We say: between these modalities it always comes back where it came from. The reason why there are now cash slides to the detriment of rail and to the benefit of the road is that there are a number of road projects which are now entering the stage of implementation, while the rail projects are only being discussed a little later. Ultimately, the budget for rail will not be reduced and the budget for rail will not increase. Mrs. Dik-Faber will try to bring that slide in. There is no coalition support for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u93	The minister says the budgets are holding. I see that the budgets for the main road network increase significantly over the years, up to 2020, while those for rail are falling significantly. I certainly do not want to compare apples with pears, but with a slight shift from road to rail, we can continue to implement many projects. From the regions, there has been a strong signal for the railways that a number of projects would be launched, but that this is not possible now because the budgets are falling sharply over the next few years. I have also received a letter from the provinces in which they write that they do not recognize themselves in the image that the provinces would agree with the re-examination that has taken place. They have put forward a number of projects and said: these projects are acute bottlenecks that we need to resolve in order to bring passengers from A to B. Think for example of the Valley line, the line near Arnhem and the electrification. There are a lot of routes to be mentioned that have to wait now and I am very sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u94	In fact, the recalibratement is not much different from the operation I carried out a few years ago to achieve the 250 million budget cut for the road. It has been said that there would be less money in the Infrastructure Fund; that discount is divided over road and rail. That has been discussed in the Chamber and it has been able to take part in the decision. I immediately carried it out on the projects that were going to be involved. I've discussed it with the regions. I said: we can do two things; we can stop a number of projects and re-enact them over the years, or we can move them a little longer in time. For example, I have agreed with the regions which projects would go ahead and which would not, and what periods of time it would take. The same operation took place for the railroad, but it took longer. The reason for this was that the Chamber first wanted a long term railway agenda. Part of the entire budget for rail is fixed because it is a lot of projects, including in the region, that would already be done. So there was only a very small part of free space, just like at the roads. Then I hear the regions say that they have more wishes. I'll bet you do. I can imagine that they will not accept in advance the distribution which the Secretary of State had in mind, but that also applies to roads and waterways. There are simply many more wishes than we can achieve from the infrastructure budget. That's not from this time, it used to be. That's from all times. No matter how big the budget you make, the wishes will eventually just come back. I am not very deeply involved in this, but I understand that the Secretary of State, together with the regions, has tried to make the best possible distribution. I am talking about all the regions in the country. I do not know whether Mrs Dik means only the regions outside the Randstad, but I am talking about all the regions in the country. The Secretary of State has made good agreements on how that should look. She could not meet all the wishes, but I think she looked mainly at projects the traveller would benefit most from. That is why the present proposal is there. Mrs Dik says: I would still like to take a little money off the road and bring it to the railways, because then there are a few more things that can be done in this area. That's her right, but that's what I'm saying: we're not gonna do that. There are clear agreements on a total budget for road and rail. If I did it the other way around, Mrs. Dik-Faber would scream murder and fire. The same goes for me when she says: the money goes from the road to the railroad.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u95	I'd still like to try another way. I understand that the Minister does not want to make a shift between the modalities. I have already indicated that I am not in favour of this either. I'm not gonna come up with that either. However, I can imagine that there are still uncertain projects. I am thinking in particular of ERTMS. It is said at European level that we may now be working on something that will be obsolete in a few years' time. It's about mega sums. Could the Minister also imagine that we are making use of these resources for the regional rail network, especially since the provinces themselves want to do something about it? Sometimes even the double will work.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u96	I just had a whole discussion about the cash drawer. You can do cash slides if you know there's money in the long run. In fact, we say that we have no more money than this for those regions. Mr Houwers is now proposing to take it out of another jar, from a jar intended for ERTMS, something that will only be realized later. In the end, however, the ERTMS will have to be paid. So that money is needed. If it's taken out of there, if it's borrowed for something else and then it can't be returned, there's a problem. I understand, but that is also under discussion in the Chamber, that the ERTMS will really have to be implemented. It is a European project. It won't be a cheap project either. Eventually it will be realized a little later, but there is no budgetary effect in the sense that something will fall free. That's important information. Once again, the Chamber can always want something other than what the Cabinet believes would be wise. The Chamber has that right. But then she must also come up with an amendment to indicate what should not be done. Unfortunately, we can't create money.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u97	I can't, but it can be pushed. The Minister is right to say that it is not the case that the money is no longer needed. The ERTMS is needed. However, estimates have now been made and it may well be that they are rather rough, especially if we do not yet know exactly what will eventually come of them. I'd like to invite the Minister to take another critical look at it. I ask my colleagues to do the same. I think that we could do a lot for the region, also because there might also be a doubler. As the Minister knows, some provinces have pots to contribute to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u98	Maybe it's good to keep a discussion like that for the MIRT meeting. This is where we can discuss these issues in greater depth. I myself have also contributed to a road that I had not planned a budget for, because a region itself had indicated that it wanted to pay about 90% of the road. Then it would be very stupid not to be a part of that. That could therefore be a consideration for putting something that is not on the agenda. I don't think I should do that in the short time I have to run all the portfolios for another person. I think that we should be doing this with each other on a deliberate basis. At the moment, the budget is simply not available and so it must be at the expense of something else. I think it is more important to implement the programme that is currently under way. Then I come to the international rail summit, which Mr Van Helvert asked for. I don't think he's gonna run it, although I think it's gonna be realized somewhere near him. Early this month, a letter was sent to the Chamber about the outcome of the National OV and Railway Table. Therein you can read the bet for the railtop. It is mainly about better ticket sales, also online. It is also about travel information for international travellers. The trail doesn't end at the border, of course. We want more and better cooperation with our neighbouring countries to improve international connections. Mr Van Helvert mentioned the connection with Düsseldorf. I have just heard that the rail summit is taking place in Rotterdam, during the TEN-T days that will be held from 20 to 22 June. I thought it was Maastricht, so I said 'near Mr Helvert'. The rail top and the TEN-T days are a nice combination. This autumn, I come together with interested parties with a detailed proposal. Mrs Van Tongeren asked about the ambition of transport between Amsterdam and Brussels. At the time, the Secretary of State discussed with the Chamber an alternative transport offer for the Fyra. The Chamber has agreed to that. Those agreements have been incorporated into the concessions to NS for the main rail network. That is the situation at the moment. Of course, I cannot now comment on the recommendations of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry Fyra. It's up to the Chamber to talk about that first. It is then up to the cabinet to respond to it. Mr Houwers made a plea for investment in regional rail. This is done by the government, including in a number of regional connections with Germany and Belgium. At the same time, investments are being made in electrification of regional rail lines, higher speeds and the deployment of longer trains. Mr Houwers also made the sympathetic suggestion to place the solar panels between the rails. I just had to think where that would be, between all those switches. In any case, I understand that there are practical difficulties in terms of costs and maintenance. In any case, we will include the suggestion in the discussions with ProRail. The last question on railways was raised by Mrs Visser of the VVD. She asked if there was room to accommodate rail transport operators in the operating fee. The increase in the usage fee is based on the mission of the previous cabinet and is partly caused by a recent decision of the ACM. If you compensate the carriers from the state budget, this is seen as state aid. I would, of course, like to respond to the carriers, and that is why I am working for more stability in tariffs. Together with the carriers and ProRail I look at the possibility to set the rates for several years. That gives more certainty and I expect the ACM to take a full decision on the complaint of the FMN, the Federation Mobility Companies Netherlands, in mid-November. I also expect that there will be more clarity about the development of tariffs in the longer term. I'm moving on to the subject of waterways. Our waterways are unique. They are decisive for our country. It is crucial for our economy that we have major main ports, which we can connect with 5,000 kilometres of waterways to the largest industrial areas and population centres in Europe. A company like Tata Steel alone transports 66% of the finished products by water. Every year, these are 135,000 trucks that don't go by road. The limit of the capacity of our rivers is not even in sight yet. For some infrastructure, I say: the border is in sight, but for other infrastructure I say: the border is far from in sight. So I call on everyone to make the most of it. I will continue to invest to make our waterways as reliable and forward-looking as possible. In the period up to 2028 about 10 billion is invested in the maintenance and expansion of waterways. For example, you should remember the start of the construction of the third lock of the Beatrix sluices, the sea access IJmond and the waterway Eemshaven-Noordzee. I also call the Trace decision for the new lock at Terneuzen. Then I'll come to the questions. Mr Smaling asked why the Smaling/De Boer motion was not included in the budget. How will the Minister remove restrictions in inland waterway transport? In the Smalling/De Boer motion, the government is asked to make a spearhead in 2015 of abolishing unnecessary rules of the CCNR, the Central Commission for the Navigation of the Rhine, for example in the area of cranes, noise and so on. That motion also calls for the Members of other parliaments and government in other countries to be informed, with the request to join. In my letter of January of this year I wrote how I dealt with the motion. In the spring session of the CCNR, it was possible to establish a moratorium on the most restrictive provisions. The moratorium runs until 2020. Studies are under way to arrive at definitive solutions before the end of the moratorium. At the CCNR meeting in December 2014, the Dutch delegation brought the motion to the attention of the other countries. We have therefore also carried out that part of the motion. In the aforementioned letter I also wrote that it will be a permanent point of attention in my contribution to the Central Commission for the Navigation of the Rhine. In fact, we are getting a little crazy there, but it is very important. I fully support the Court's view that some measures are simply too great for the issue it seeks to resolve. The measures should not have too much impact and should not result in excessive cost-effective pressure on the companies concerned. Mrs Visser asked a question about the accessibility of the locks in Twente. There would be uncertainty about that. Her question concerns the renovation of the Delden and Hengelo complexes. These complexes will be renovated in 2016 and 2017. It is necessary to renovate those locks to ensure permanent and safe use in the future. This is one of the management and maintenance projects that we have discussed. It is inevitable that this renovation will lead to a period of disruption. You can't fix such a lock complex without any interference. In the procurement process, we will challenge the contractor as much as possible to minimise the nuisance, through the so-called less nuisance approach that we also use on roads. When completing this approach, we will also consult extensively with residents, stakeholders and companies. I understood that there were concerns in the companies that they would not be sufficiently involved. We will certainly involve them. I'm switching to aviation. It is now moving faster, because fewer questions have been asked on this subject. There is a lot going on in international aviation at the moment, and that is also palpable in the Netherlands. The discussions have been held here before. For example, airlines and airports in the Gulf region are growing enormously fast. A good position of Schiphol Airport is therefore not self-evident, because there is a lot of competition with the other airports. In addition, this growth in the Gulf region has an effect on Air France-KLM, which is faced with competition. On the one hand, it is important that Schiphol gets the space for development, at Schiphol itself, but also at Eindhoven and Lelystad, on the other hand, it is important that there be an action agenda for Schiphol which is of course also important for Air France-KLM to look at concrete ways to strengthen the position of Schiphol than it currently is. This can be done along all kinds of roads, including accessibility and regulation. Mrs Visser asked if we have any ideas about European policies that hinder the development of Schiphol. As we know, the cabinet is very reluctant with national headlines on European regulation. The same applies to Schiphol and the aviation sector. At the same time, with regard to Schiphol, we must always strike a national balance between space for economic development and noise issues. In the field of security, the Cabinet follows the requirements of ICAO and EASA international organisations. It is important that the policy in this area does not deviate and has no national headlines. If there are any headlines and if we have not yet seen them, then we are always open to them, because it must be part of the agenda for action to get rid of these kinds of headlines. Mrs Visser also asked about the growth of Schiphol Airport and the desired growth of Eindhoven Airport. Alders' advice on the second phase of Eindhoven Airport's growth was not supported by stakeholders, including the peripheral municipalities. The Chamber has said that it considers acceptance to be important. That is why we have made every effort in recent times to obtain support from the region. The challenge is to strike a good balance between economic interests on the one hand and the interests of residents on the other. The measures now in place come as far as I can see, and I am familiar with the dossier for one day now, which is very similar on the one hand to the interests of the environment and, on the other hand, to the economic objectives. Eindhoven can move to 43.000 movements until 2020 and the airport reduces the number of flights after eleven o'clock in the evening, so that people living around are less affected by it. What I actually understood is that if you do a little less in those nightly hours, you can do a little more during the day. In it you will find the necessary compensation for a balance between economic growth on the one hand and the nuisance for residents on the other. If that is not possible, there is also a downside to it, and I do not want to take everything as positive as possible, so that, in the final case, growth would be reduced by about 3% to 2020. But there is growth in it and the night hours have been taken into account. As a result, I believe that both sides can be satisfied with the proposal that is currently before us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u99	The proposal now before us was already a discussion after five years of Alderstable, which had everything to do with compromises that were made with each other. They sat at that Alders table for five years and made agreements there in 2010 and again in 2012. They have all been evaluated in 2015 and come out of it: we are fulfilling all the commitments we made in 2010 and in 2012. Next, it's crazy that you're rigging up a circus like this.It's said: it's nice and nice what we've all achieved with each other, but we're doing things differently now. The Minister also said in her reply: if it does not succeed, growth will be reduced by 3%, while we all know Mr Alders himself indicated in the discussion with the Chamber of Commerce that Schiphol is growing much faster than expected and that Lelystad may be needed faster than expected. How are we supposed to see this when it is said: Schiphol is growing faster, but we make agreements with each other in Eindhoven that may limit growth?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u100	I have also seen it on my file that, after talking for a very long time about a dossier in Eindhoven and its surroundings, there was a very different reality after a change of political parties at one time. I think that's what happened here. It is not that we have said from the Ministry itself: let us give it a different meaning. The base of support fell out. That is why there has been a search for a solution which, on the one hand, responds to the interests of residents and, on the other hand, to the importance of the sector to grow. There is growth in it, and a strong growth too, so I think that is a good development. Schiphol's growing, Lelystad's growing. The Secretary of State knows how big the growth is at the various airports and thinks it can cope well with growth over the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u101	Growth has been made conditional and we are concerned about this, especially when you look at the level of ambition and the importance of the main gate Schiphol. The Minister says that acceptance is important. That's the point. Mr Alders said: I have done everything I can; the parties have complied with all the commitments, but there are still a limited number of parties saying that it is not enough. Now that the Secretary of State has sent her letter, the same parties say: that is nice and nice, but we are still not satisfied. The basis is still not there. That actually brings out the bankruptcy of the Alders system. We can make agreements with each other for five years, but if they are then put aside with one stroke of pens, what is this whole system worth?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u102	That is a clear statement from Mrs Visser. I am glad that at least at national level we have agreed on the Elverding system. Every time a decision is taken and one takes a step further, that decision is also laid down, so that the world does not look completely different if there is another political colour, whatever political colour it may be. 'Cause we'll never get anywhere. In this case, I have to tell you that I am only so short on that dossier, and I take it for granted from the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs that I do not know what discussions are behind it, how sensitive it is, whether it is possible to remove it with one stroke of pens or not. Perhaps you could go into this whole discussion in more detail at another time. If it has to be short-term, with me, or if it can wait a little longer, then perhaps with a new ruler who will be there by then and who will be able to tell what's behind it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u103	Mr Madlener, your last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u104	I would like to devote my last interruption to Schiphol Airport and its accessibility. My group is very concerned about this accessibility, especially by train. It's a mess at ProRail. For years, we have seen enormous delays and even delays of trains going to Schiphol. We have seen two seasons, two summers, for a long time that there were renovations in the railway tunnel right at the height of the tourist stream that wants to leave Schiphol. We see check-in times and Schiphol's advice at three o'clock in advance because otherwise people will just be late. That's gotta be different. Is the Minister prepared to discuss with the Secretary of State's successor with the highest priority how this accessibility of Schiphol by train can be improved?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u105	This has actually already been discussed on the subject of rail. Mrs Visser also asked a question about the accessibility of Schiphol. I said something about it on track or maybe on another file. At least I've talked about it in detail. For us, the accessibility of Schiphol Airport is also very important, including by rail. For that, a MIRT study was done for Schiphol Plaza. We are now looking at ways in which we can solve the problem in the best possible way. There are, of course, a lot of lines coming together. It is also important for us that Schiphol Airport is easily accessible to passengers by rail, car and air. That goes without saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u106	Pretty words aren't enough right now. Of course it is important that Schiphol is easily accessible, but that has gone so wrong in recent years. There were all kinds of technical problems and renovations at the most impossible times, just when people want to go on holiday in the summer. I ask the Minister to do more here than say it's important. She really needs to make this a priority, with Mrs Mansveld's successor. It's really been a mess these past few years and it has to be different. I hope the Minister is prepared to say that Schiphol is being looked at with much more attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u107	I mentioned it, but I lost it again. In my opinion, we are now looking at how Schiphol Plaza will be further developed in the short term. So this is also a priority. I have also said that there is an Agenda for Action Schiphol, which also looks at accessibility: what the Empire can contribute to it and what the region can contribute to it. So it's just a priority.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u108	Mrs. Van Tongeren, your last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u109	Hopefully my finest interruption tonight, namely on source policy. That is one of the things I know the Minister is in favour of. I have received a clear answer in the written answer to my concern about how to clean up the air in shipping, for which I thank you. I have a question based on source policy. Is the Minister prepared to look at how we can reduce the sulphur content of kerosene at European level? That's what we did in shipping. That's where it works, so it's no longer anti-competitive. Is the Minister prepared to put the sulphur content of kerosene in Europe on the agenda? This also helps directly against the fine dust emissions around Schiphol, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u110	We are actually trying to do as much as possible at global level in the maritime and aviation sectors, because these means of transport are moving around the world. We have tried to introduce a flight tax on kerosene in the Netherlands. However, it went off again in no time, because it would organize an uneven level playing field. I was just called to do everything to give Schiphol and KLM/Air France a good starting position. Mrs Van Tongeren says that she does not want it at national level, but at European level. That would matter, but I am still very much in favour of discussing these things in the ICAO and AISA context. I know that it is being discussed in ICAO and AISA. CO is considered at global level in shipping and aviation. Proposals are being made at global level. I think it's best that everyone has the same starting point, so there's no difference and so there's a level playing field. I'd like to bet on that. I do not want a separate European commitment to this now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u111	I can imagine that the minister had been robbed because she suddenly had to take over some portfolios. However, we have a European agreement in the shipping sector, and this is also maintained. So it's not so strange to start with aviation at first. After all, the Minister and I also know that leaders are needed to achieve this on a global scale. Those pioneers can show it's there. There's got to be another market for that sulphur-depleting kerosene. The Minister writes that in the Netherlands we do encourage the development of sustainable biokerosin. That is not something we are being introduced worldwide. I therefore ask the Minister once again whether there is no possibility of looking at the possibilities for using kerosene with less sulphur in a European context. Its use would also solve the Minister's problem of particulate matter emissions and pollution directly around airports. This is therefore a question of resource policy. The VVD would like that. There is also action at European level, so this applies not only to the Netherlands. Couldn't that at least be looked at?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u112	I know very well that this is happening around sulphur in shipping at European level, because shipping is part of my portfolio. So I know. I also know that this has caused a lot of trouble. Sometimes this is true, and once a skipper crosses certain limits with his boat, the weather does not apply. This therefore has disadvantages when striving for a level playing field. I also know that there is talk at global level of a CO approach to aviation. I think it's just really good to invest it at that level first. Then, for example, we can deal with the question of how to deal with the problem of sulphur. I myself do not feel like saying this evening: let us become a pioneer in this policy area in Europe. I do not know what has been discussed in the past in the field of aviation and whether or not there are any supporters. So I really want to stick to the way it is organised now, in the ICAO context. Let's take a look at that over there. I still have some points on aviation. Mr Van Helvert asked about the cooperation between Air France and KLM. That makes sense, because there is, of course, a lot of discussion and a lot of social debate about that. The Ministry is closely monitoring developments in these airlines, especially as competition is very fierce. That is an additional argument, which I forgot to mention in Mrs Van Tongeren's interruption. The European aviation market is under severe pressure, for example, from developments in the market in the Middle East. That is why I do not think it is a good idea to make things a little more complicated for European aviation. I would prefer everyone in the world to have the same standards and the same requirements. Anyway, back to Air France and KLM. They need a firm and future-proof strategy. They are in the process of reducing costs. They have also drawn up a programme for this purpose. However, I think that the airlines themselves should consider whether the business model is still future-proof, but that is more an appeal to the airlines themselves. There have, of course, been a lot of other models on the market in recent years. Of course, it is also important for airlines to renew themselves. The Secretary of State informed the Chamber yesterday, in one of her last letters, that Air France and KLM should reduce costs and increase productivity, that KLM has already started saving EUR 700 million and increasing its own productivity. There are new collective agreements. That is also a step in the right direction. For continuity it is also important that Air France saves and becomes more productive. The French and Dutch Governments also agree on this. Air France is now also in conversation with the unions. We are monitoring this closely, and we are also in good contact with the French colleagues. So there are actually a few steps. We have already discussed the action plan for Schiphol, which, of course, should also be beneficial to KLM. We have talked about what can be done by the government and about the cost-effectiveness that one has to take care of. We also need to think about new business models. That is also something one has to do on one's own behalf. We also discussed the talks between the Dutch government and the French government to ensure that the French part also participates in proportion to the Dutch part.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u113	At the moment, the Minister is a bit resented by the fact that he is diving into a file that is not entirely hers. I hear she's reading. That's not a bad thing either, but of course those are the standard texts. The practice is more uncomfortable. We have always said that there is a task for KLM and Air France. But there is also a task for the government. Especially in view of today's discussion in which the Labour Party has made it quite clear that there is a task for Minister Dijsselbloem to act in this and to make a stronger fist in France. Does the Minister agree with the CDA that this is even Chief Sache, so that the Prime Minister should interfere?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u114	I believe that those who have something in their portfolio are the first to be held accountable. If something gets tough, make it chefsache, so the prime minister has to deal with it? It just doesn't work that way in our order. The Prime Minister is primus inter pares. If we don't come out together, he'll help us find a good solution. That doesn't mean he takes over every time it gets tough. The same goes for a minister. He doesn't automatically take over anything from the Secretary of State when it gets tricky. I've seen that discussion over the past few weeks. We just have separate responsibilities and functions. This is without prejudice to the fact that I know that it is considered very important to have a good market situation for Schiphol and for KLM-Air France in all ranks, up to and including the "chef" of our cabinet. At various times, the Secretary of State, the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Prime Minister have called for attention to be paid to this dossier. The most important thing is that the relations between the rulers of I and M and the French leaders are good and that there is also no difference in opinion that Air France should get to work as much as KLM. There's nothing to worry about right now. I am not saying that it has been realized; we must also see it and not just hear it. There's no need to worry about relationships. It doesn't take anyone to get over it again. If that is necessary, I assume he will do his best to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u115	However, I feel that the sense of urgency is not sufficiently present. Today, De Juniac announced that the cuts at Air France will take longer and will be less large than they were supposed to be. In doing so, he released the interview he gave to Het Financieele Dagblad in January. That's when he said it. As a result, all these discussions on cash have begun. Now it turns out it's just true: Air France is going to cut back and the cuts are going to take longer. That's just a fact. In the end, this can be at the expense of KLM's network. The hearing showed how important that network is. Once it's broken, it'll never come back. Then it's too late and there's nothing we can do. How is the cabinet, whether it is Dijsselbloem as shareholder or the minister or the secretary of state, going to do differently than it is now? Now we're just watching. Soon we will have a committee of inquiry on what we should have done.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u116	We're definitely not watching. I know that there have been many contacts and will be if necessary. I do not know the recent article you are talking about, but I understand that good agreements have been made with the French Government. If this is not respected, we shall have to press for it without delay. So there is certainly a sense of urgency in the government. That is not because we need to save a company, but because we need to maintain our accessibility. Our accessibility, our mobility and our unique position are important. We have a unique position, because we actually have a rather large airport and a rather large airline for such a small country. We have this position because the Netherlands was the first to conclude open skies agreements in 1985. That was, of course, extremely important in order to make the network as big as it is now. But there is also something else going on, because the world is changing too. You have different types of airlines that operate in a completely different way and have the same turnover, for example, but with a tenth of the staff. I'm just saying. That's your competition. So the government has an important role to play. We must continue to put pressure on Air France to take the same measures. We must ensure that the accessibility remains good. We need to implement the rules in such a way that there is as little ballast as possible for businesses and we need to support them if this is possible within the framework of the state aid rules. Another issue is also important. I've only been on that for a day now, but I've had that in my wallet in the past. It is very important that our KLM not only looks at cost-cutting, the reduction of costs, but also looks at the question: what is happening in the world and do I have to think of other constructions to sustain it? It is impossible for the government to keep anyone who poses a threat out of the door. It just can't be. They'll all be flying around us soon. It's a joint thing. So we certainly have a sense of urgency. I will ask about the article that has just been referred to. If it is necessary, then we are on the sidewalk again. I'm getting to the block about the environment. I'll start with the climate. The climate summit will take place in Paris in a month's time. Of course, the Netherlands has a clear and ambitious commitment at EU level. We need to reduce CO emissions considerably. Climate action must go hand in hand with sustainable growth. We will look at sustainable growth and economic growth in conjunction with each other. I also notice that the climate and the economy are no longer seen as sworn enemies, but much more as things that are interwoven and mutually reinforcing. I think that's good, too. In view of the signals I hear during the preparations, I am in favour of progress. The climate agreement can stimulate new innovations and earning models. It would be very good if that were achieved at the climate summit. Luckily, the examples lie before the pick-up. The LED lamp was the result of a search for energy savings and is now an important export product of Philips. The search for less CO emissions in mobility led to the electric and now partly self-controlled Tesla. This is creating new jobs and investment in the Netherlands at the moment. This shows that the environment and economy can go hand in hand if you fill in and stimulate it in the right way. Of course, it must also be a global agreement. The Netherlands is responsible for a limited part of global emissions. Even Europe is responsible for "only" 11%. We just need to do something about that. By that word "but," I didn't mean anything. I only used that to show you what the proportions are. In response to Mrs Van Veldhoven's contribution, I say that the progress of the negotiations and the ambitions will be very well guarded, despite the resignation of the Secretary of State, who was indeed committed to this dossier with all her heart. There has already been very close cooperation with the colleagues from State, EZ and Finance. Of course, we will continue to do so, even when there are new people. However, there would already be more rulers who are already known in this circuit. So it's not like there's gonna be just one new face. Along different ways we tried to make our Dutch input visible. We can keep doing that. Mrs Dik-Faber asked about the progress of climate policy. She sketched a somewhat gloomy picture of the Netherlands. I recognize her passion, but I don't quite recognize the sober image. We are ambitious and so do other countries. The long-term objective of the Netherlands was adopted by the EU as a whole in September. The goal is clear: climate neutrality and climate reversibility in the second half of this century. In addition, thanks to the Dutch commitment in Europe, it was decided to reduce the amount of greenhouse gases by at least 40% by 2030. Thanks to our commitment, it has been decided globally to help developing countries deploy renewable energy and combat deforestation. Unfortunately, not all developments go as fast or as fast as you would like, but in the end, climate change can only be solved jointly: countries, companies, civil society organisations and citizens. Some major changes take time. They are not always dependent on technology, but also on other developments. This is precisely why the cabinet attaches great importance to the involvement of companies, other governments and non-state actors. As national governments, you can sit there together and tell them how to change the world, but in the end the world only changes together with those who play a role in the economy. Mrs. Mulder from the CDA asked about that involvement. Many parties are already active in the local climate agenda. Municipalities, provinces and water boards make homes more sustainable under that flag, more often use clean vehicles and stimulate renewable energy. They do that together with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the VNG. We do even more collaboration with companies, municipalities and organisations in the climate coalition. More than 300 parties are already participating in this process, all aiming at climate-neutral operations in 2050. To emphasise this involvement, companies, local authorities and civil society organisations in the Dutch delegation will also go to the climate summit in Paris. In line with this commitment, green growth, or the circular economy, lies. In response to a question from Mrs Dik-Faber, the European Commission is coming forward at the end of this year with a proposal to stimulate the circular economy in Europe. The Netherlands is seen as a frontrunner in Europe and has actively provided input for the proposal. As EU President, we will put the proposed package on the agenda of the European Council. There too, we will ensure that it is dealt with. Mrs Cegerek proposes an overarching programme for a circular economy in the Netherlands. I find that an interesting proposal, like the suggestion for a knowledge base for raw material flows, similar to Germany. On both ideas we want to return with a letter prior to the AO on circular economy, which is scheduled for December. I say this in response to Mrs Van Veldhoven's question, which proposed a broad agreement on raw materials. If it's okay, I'll combine both suggestions. In the AO we can discuss what is possible and whether that is what both ladies have in mind. Mrs. Van Veldhoven gave me a book on sustainable shopping. I even got two books, because Mr Smaling gave me a book on asbestos. I do not know if Mr Smaling's suggestion to read a book meant these two books, but I saw that the other parties were already browsing them. As far as that's concerned, I think it's gonna be okay. The Chamber received last month's plan of approach to sustainable procurement. It's not a book, but I hope the members read it. The agreements contained in them are now being worked out. I will take Mrs Cegerek's suggestion to buy in 10% circularly. Municipalities and Regus have proposed a special sustainable purchasing check. I also find that an interesting idea. Besides, it is not so much 10% of the budget that you spend on it, but 10% of the way you buy. Otherwise, you're gonna have to do a lot of red tape. I think it is certainly possible to ask for specific attention for circular in the case of sustainable purchases. In this context, Mrs Dik asks for the promotion of innovation in procurement by Rijkswaterstaat. That's what we're doing all the time. RWS does this together with market players and knowledge institutes, for example on the Bouwcampus and in the Hoogwaterprotectieprogram. Innovations are tested in practice, such as new forms of dike covering and durable forms of asphalt. For more durable concrete there is a separate green deal. In tendering, there are environmental assessments, which encourage construction companies to opt for sustainable materials such as recycled concrete. Of course, CO2 reduction is always the underlying objective. I myself find it interesting to see how we can build on the one hand and do so as wisely as possible. Mr Smaling misses I and M in the energy agreement, while Mrs Van Tongeren thought I had it over my bed. I can reassure him. We're involved in this, like other departments. I and M are even responsible for a number of issues in the agreement, such as the spatial integration of wind energy and the adaptation of energy saving measures through the Environmental Management Act. We also focus on other forms of renewable energy, think of the heat plans in Rijnmond and Limburg, and other possibilities such as energy from tidal differences, Blue Energy, in the Oosterschelde and at the Afsluitdijk. Ultimately, of course, we are also responsible for the mobility and transport component. Mrs Van Tongeren asked questions about this. This year, over a hundred parties have agreed on this. These are now being worked out and implemented. We do this by part of the list of appointments, for example with Green Deals. We're also gonna work on the burning vision, like I said. I think we are making good progress along those lines. The agreements will, of course, also be evaluated. Then we will also look at the motion adopted by the Chamber when the EZ budget was discussed. Then I come to air quality, also part of the environment. I will address a number of questions on emissions and air quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u117	Minister, if you have a second, I see Mrs. Dik-Faber rushing to the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u118	Mr. Chairman. I have two questions, so I'll do it in half, on the subject of circular economy and sustainable purchasing. I read in the Minister's reply that she likes to talk about the plan of approach to buy-in socially responsible, but that this is a plan of five departments. My group is now getting the impression that the budgets have fallen in total over the last few years. That is why we have tabled an amendment. We really did our best to get through all these budgets, but we can't. Is the Minister prepared to list, before the votes on the amendments for the last three years, what the budgets have been for sustainable procurement?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u119	As far as we can find it so quickly, before the votes, I would be happy to do so. I think it's important that we report that. What I myself read out of the answer, because it is new to me too, is that we have the idea that there is enough money within the budgets of the ministries to live up to the ambitions we have together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u120	I hope so, too. The lines I've seen for the budgets went down strongly. It'd be nice to talk about that when we get that letter. My second question concerns the answer to my question about VAT rates for return products that can be repaired. This is bound to be a matter of European VAT legislation. Could we be informed more about what is or is not possible before the second term of the Tax Plan? I am talking not only about return products, but also about second-hand products, which are often also included in the high VAT rate. In order to stimulate this circular economy, I can imagine a low VAT rate for this, but I do not know to what extent that is bound up with European regulation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u121	The VAT rates are in the area of State Secretary Wiebes. I do not wish to venture to give an answer to this question before dealing with the Tax Plan. I think it would be a good idea for you to ask yourself through the relevant committee whether this is possible or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u122	I see another question from Mr Smaling.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u123	A word about the use of I and M in the energy agreement. There are two things I would like to bring to the attention of the Minister. One is the fitting of wind to land. I note that I and M are fairly invisible. We are talking about this with the Minister for Economic Affairs, who is in conflict with the three northern provinces, who were brought to justice at some point. When it comes to area processes, integration, acceptance, offering people some compensation, I miss the Minister, not only personally, but simply the knowledge at I and M. The second point is, of course, the Urgenda pronunciation, which requires us to reduce CO emissions much further than just jargon, which is the basic path. This is how the discussion will be on the table as to what we are going to do with all these coal power stations. You'd have to like that, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u124	Let me start with the windmills. We are indeed responsible for the structural vision, so where we could place those windmills if we also look at the competition with all the other activities we want in that space. We are, of course, trying to shape this well together with the provinces. At the beginning I myself was present at the talks with the provinces about usefulness and necessity and in making the agreements on the quantity of megawatts. Those were always good consultations, in which we tried precisely to place responsibility for the choice of locations in the provinces, so that we were less centralistic and would give more room for local and regional debate. But this is always a bit of a "not in my backyard" subject. So we have always said that we are capable of imposing the national coordination system, with which we are in a more compelling variant. You ask me if I am able to do this type of process, because we have been doing it for a long time than EZ. We are certainly doing something with that. We provide people to EZ to help or to advise if EZ asks, and sometimes unsolicited. I think that I have said enough about my personal involvement and that of the officials who understand this kind of area process. Frankly, I think that this should only become more in the coming period, because it is becoming more and more complex. If we want to achieve so many different things in a full country like the Netherlands, we will have to communicate very well with our environment and see how we gain support without losing sight of the interests. You also asked about Urgenda. I think the cabinet has already answered questions about this a few times. We have said what steps we are going to take. On the one hand, there has already been an appeal, so I do not want to say too much about it. On the other hand, the cabinet has said that we are now simply continuing with the ambitions that were already there and that, where possible, we are going to do additional things.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u125	I can imagine that the Minister will have to take a closer look at CO2 emissions, so I can give her that. But on the other point, I have to say that I and M have been heavily involved in the paperwork, until the Wind structural vision was on land. Before that I quoted Jimi Hendrix, who should have written "The Wind Cries Melanie" instead of "The Wind Cries Mary." But I haven't seen the minister since. There are very serious problems in Drenthe, which the Minister will not have escaped. In Groningen, no preferred variant has even been chosen. In Friesland there are other problems, ranging from village mills to the question of where to find the large parks. In the Noordoostpolder it is reasonably resolved by partly compensating the villages in the periphery of Emmeloord, although I do not know whether this has happened until the satisfaction of the people there. But there really is a very large spatial planning problem, which causes a great deal of resistance to renewable energy in the broad sense. We shouldn't want that. I believe that the Minister's ministry should play a much greater role in this than it does now. That is why I ask the Minister if she will do so and, if so, how.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u126	I have said before that I want to make our knowledge available with love. I would also like to be present myself in the debates on this subject, but I am not invited to the committee for EZ. We all have our own responsibility. I make a lot of structural visions: I make structural visions for things that I have a substantive responsibility for, but I also make structural visions for matters for which other ministries have a substantive policy responsibility. I am happy to be present at any debate on substantive issues, if that is what I am asked to do. I would also like to explain why things in space have been designed in a certain way. Actually, you say, and I'm just saying black and white: I think you're doing better than your colleague, so why don't you? I don't think that's how we work. We make knowledge available if there is a need for it. I see that EZ itself is also increasingly interacting with the environment. It should; look at the gas file, look at the windmill file. That is my answer to your question. As I said, I will address a number of questions on emissions and air quality. Mrs Cegerek, Mrs Van Veldhoven and Mrs Van Tongeren have asked questions about the NSL. I shall begin with a brief response to Mrs Van Tongeren's comment on the development of air quality. She asked me to tell you more about the past 25 years. The nitrogen emissions from traffic and transport have been virtually halved since 1990. The road traffic is even more than halved. The fine dust emissions from traffic and transport are well halved. In fact, particulate emissions from road transport have decreased by 75%. So there have been huge improvements. I indicated earlier in the debate that CO emissions from road transport have increased since 1990, but in recent years growth has stopped and there has been a slight decrease. As I said, there is certainly still a need for ambition in this area to further improve this. The fact that this decline is taking place in several areas is mainly due to the stricter European requirements on cars and the tax incentives for economical cars. Within the NSL programme, we have been able to solve the air quality problems in almost all respects. Nevertheless, it is wise to continue with the NSL. Mrs Cegerek and other spokesmen have asked for this. In the cities we still see a number of concrete problems. As a follow-up to the NSL, an action plan has been drawn up with seven large municipalities. The Chamber will receive that plan in the coming month. There are still specific problems in these areas. Mrs Cegerek asked about the RIVM's measuring capacity. Given the dates we have, I think we have a very good picture of the air quality in our country. At the end of the NSL, air quality will continue to be well monitored. Mrs Cegerek was worried about that. The way we do that depends on the available techniques. There are more and more other techniques on the market. Fortunately, innovations are making the techniques faster and more efficient. You can even see that there are many private initiatives in this area. At least we're gonna go through with it. Mrs Mulder, Mrs Dik, Mr Hoogland and Mrs Van Tongeren have asked questions about standards for diesel emissions. I see Mrs Van Veldhoven has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u127	Perhaps completely contrary to the Minister's expectations, I am not going to ask her about diesel emissions. I had no time for it in my speech, but colleagues have observed it eloquence. I fully support their comments. So we will continue this discussion. I have another question about air quality and the follow-up to the NSL. The minister says there are action plans with the seven major cities. We know that there are also major problems outside these big cities, for example at tunnel mouths. Is the Minister prepared to make money available for this too?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u128	I cannot answer that now, because I do not know what budget is left and how this has been allocated. We are now looking at where there are problems and what we can do. Perhaps the tunnel mouths are also included in the action plan with the seven municipalities. I don't really know. So I can't commit to it in advance. Maybe I'll come back to it in second term. We are not so much concerned with those seven cities as with the question of where there are still problems. Can we focus on it? That's what you really want for the future. You always hear all kinds of stories about the worst boy in the class, versus "we're doing so much better." We're doing a lot better than that. We have much less emissions than in the past. We also come within the standards we have set ourselves. In Europe, however, there are also countries where people are farther below the norm. However, they are less densely populated, less full. That makes it more difficult for us. We're not so dirty, but we're sometimes less clean than others. But yes, in such a country you have a village, and then an hour nothing, a forest, and then another village. That's just gonna save you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u129	I'll be the last to deny that it's gonna be okay. Of course it is. However, the World Health Organisation has set standards based on the air quality you would really like, based on what air quality does to people who have asthma or lung problems. Those are not European standards, but is the Minister prepared to consider how to bring quick wins closer to WHO standards? That the Minister who is not going to apply an absolute legal limit, I understand, partly in view of her outline of the problems in a densely populated country, but is she open to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u130	The WHO is looking at the health issue from one interest, and it is right that it should stand up for it. At European level, however, we have set standards with each other. As long as we have these standards, that is our framework; we must do so. If we all want a different standard at European level, we have to regulate it, but I have no indication now that we are actively seeking to achieve a different, lower standard, such as that of the WTO. So my answer would be "no." If there is a broad majority in the European context to do otherwise, you cannot decide on your own as a country. I would have stayed on diesel emissions. I think that there has indeed been some bad news from Brussels compared to the efforts made by the Netherlands. The Technical Committee approved the European Commission's proposal. As of September 2017, cars on the road are allowed to emit 2.1 times as much as on the roller bench. By 2020, that number will go down to 1.5 times as much. The Netherlands was the only country that voted against because it did not feel that this went far enough. The Chamber has tabled motions on this subject, so it is aware of the ambition it had given. We believe that the proposal is not strict enough and that it is being introduced too late. I am therefore very sorry that this has happened. You will notice that the countries with a large car industry have provided a strong lobby. It is important to say what the consequence of this is, because the newspaper outlined the picture that more could be emitted than before. The consequence of the standard that has now been adopted is that new cars will not be allowed to emit more than 120 mg nitrogen per kilometre from 2020. That is much less than it is now, because now the performance is between 400 and 500 mg nitrogen per kilometre. The standard of 120 mg nitrogen per kilometer is achieved by means of a source policy. There are therefore stricter requirements at source. There is no need for additional measures, as I say to Mrs van Tongeren, who wanted to reduce speed once again. That won't be necessary. It's already improving a whole lot. It does not improve as much and not as quickly as we had asked and wished, but that improvement will certainly take place. We were really alone in this. Even Sweden had dropped out at this point. Mrs Van Tongeren also asked about the measurement of diesel emissions. On behalf of the Ministry, TNO regularly makes representative samples of trucks, vans and passenger cars for various euro classes. I have already said something about the Euro 5 and Euro 6 tests. At 83 measurement points, nitrogen dioxide, NO, is reported on the website of the Landelijk Meetnet Air Quality, which makes it possible to determine whether the calculated values correspond to practice. The current 83 measuring points are more than sufficient to verify the practical picture.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u131	I have one more question on the previous subject. I was just getting over that. The Netherlands voted against the nitrogen proposal because it is not satisfied with this, but the situation is getting better than it is now. Then what exactly is this about? If the situation were to improve, we would vote in favour, I would say.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u132	This is because this Chamber had informed the Secretary of State that it had to be implemented not in 2017 but in 2016. So we had already said that it should take place earlier and that there should not be 2.1 times as many emissions but that we wanted to use the figure 1.18. That's what we brought in. It is always a bit difficult in such a European discussion. Or at some point you say, "I'm against it." Or you say, "I'm not gonna make it," so I'm gonna go anyway. We just wanted to send a signal with this. Eventually, the picture in the paper is that it's all getting much worse. I'm trying to point out that this isn't true. The emissions are getting much less. It's just not gonna be as much less as we'd hoped. Furthermore, the European Parliament must now say something about it. I think that is a bit more on the line with the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u133	Imaging. It happens all the time around here. I wanted to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u134	Mr Hoogland asked about the possibility of measuring emissions at the apk and the possibility of checking, banning or taxing an increase in pollution. In any case, soot filters must not be removed illegally. This leads to more emissions of harmful substances. The Secretary of State promised the Chamber an investigation in July. In the last AO in preparation for the Environment Council, it undertook to inform the Chamber of the results in January. If these results are positive, they will be taken into account in the implementation of the European Development Fund Directive. Then we will also know more about the impact on the costs of an apothecary and the environmental yield. On this basis, a final choice is made. We shall, of course, refer it to the Chamber. Then I'll move on to space. Then I'll talk about the ILT and then I'll run out of answers. I can talk endlessly about our spatial policy. There are always few MPs asking questions about this, so I'm just looking to the left. Over the past year, we've been talking about the environmental law bill. That was a good and constructive discussion. I am pleased that the Chamber passed the bill by a large majority. This was an important milestone for all those involved in the proposal. However, with that vote, the work is not finished. People know I still have to go to the First Chamber to talk about the bill. In the coming year, the Environment Act will also be further developed in concrete follow-up products. I mention the four AMvBs that are very important for all parties that will soon have to work with the law. The effects must be properly tested in practice. That's what's happening. In the coming year, the Chamber and I will discuss this again and again. Meanwhile, we are also working on the National Environment Agenda, which should lead to a national environmental vision. As we know, that vision is a follow-up to the Environment Act. It's not a cabinet note about space, but it's an inspiring story about the future of our country's interior. It is a story that has been made for and by all possible parties who have an interest in it. These are governments, civil society organisations, citizens and businesses. Many parties are already at work to make their contribution to this. The fun thing is that it also brings together the different interests of nature, energy, infrastructure and so on, because you bring that together in such a vision at the front. That is what one of the first questions in the debate was about. That was a question from Mr Smaling. That national vision of the environment must enable everyone to fulfil their own role in concrete terms. The National Agenda for the Environment is also intended to ensure that all these parties actually have a place at the table, so that it is also a common social product. The National Environment Agenda also discusses developments and new challenges that arise from them. It is my goal that this National Environmental Vision is there when the Environment Act enters into force in 2018. Mr Smaling asked whether an annual review of the Infrastructure and Space Structure Vision would still be necessary in order to remain up-to-date and determine the course of action. I do not think that is necessary. As promised to the Chamber, this structural vision is currently under interim review. It also focuses on the way in which this guidance gives spatial development. Every two years, the Planning Office for the Environment shows how far the goals are being achieved. I will report on this to the Chamber, but I think that, especially in the national environment vision and also in the National Environment Agenda that I have just mentioned, the new developments and the new expenditures that result from them will be addressed. That document will be taken over by such an agenda at some point. Mr Smaling also asked a question about the alleged barriers in the legislation for smart grids, neighborhood batteries and experimental areas. His question is about sustainability in the Environment Act. This is related, for example, to the project under the Crisis and Recovery Act in Meppel on Sustainable Building. The experiment deviates from the rules of the current Building Decision. These are energy performance standards. This indeed comes in an AMvB under the Environmental Act. These initiatives can have a place in them, so that there is more room for municipalities to build more structurally sustainable ones. Those AMVBs are developing, but I intend to put them up in Parliament next year, as you know. Then you can look at them. Then I'll come to the ILT's oversight. A number of questions have also been asked. I am not going to deal with the whole supervision by the ILT late at night, but I would like to make a few comments. There is much more to be said about it, but I will answer the questions. Several Members of Parliament, such as Mrs Van Veldhoven, Mr Smaling and Mrs Van Tongeren, have expressed their concerns about the ILT, in the vein of: is there sufficient knowledge? Can they handle their duties? Isn't there too much savings? What about cooperation with other inspections? I shall begin by asking whether there is sufficient knowledge. I go to work with the ILT every once in a while. What I often find are inspectors who have been working in the field for years and often know everything. When you're going to inspect a ship, you're going to get the ears of your head talking about what you're going to see, what you're going to have to watch out for and how to do it. There is therefore a great deal of solid expertise to counter the party being controlled. Of course, new people are coming in, because such an organisation also needs to renew. They will have to build up that knowledge. What you often see is that they walk along with the older inspectors. There must always be attention to the fact that you do well to build up knowledge, but at least there is a lot of knowledge present. There are mainly many professionals; it is less a management club and much more a professional club. Can the ILT handle the tasks? Basically, yes, but what I sometimes see is a crookedness in which you would like to check for and check for. This also has to do with, for example, European requirements, which require you to control 25% of shipping, while the inspection itself thinks: it does not necessarily have to, and I would like to do a little more in another area. But, yes, they already have people on them. It keeps looking for where you want to put your priorities. Priorities can sometimes change. The Chamber itself stated that: when a subject is hot, sometimes the Chamber asks at once to see more and elsewhere less. In principle, the inspection can handle the tasks, but sometimes you have to slide a little to do the things that are most important to you. Sometimes, at European level, we raise the issue of whether things need to be filled in in a certain way or whether we can do it differently. For example, we find risk-based supervision much more interesting than a percentage. We have also been asked to reverse the cuts on the ILT. I don't see any reason to reverse them right now. The ILT captures the cuts of the Rutte I and II Cabinets by avoiding as much pressure as possible on the primary inspection process. We mainly aim to reduce staff management and other support functions. We are trying to be smart about the use of people and resources through a different way of working. As an example, the agreements or cooperation with other inspections, which, by the way, is going well. I would also like to mention the digitisation and standardisation of supervision. Mr Van Helvert had a specific question, namely how we can ensure that ILT is put into working mode and not put away too many questions about passenger rights. Well, the ILT is always in working mode. I know the people there as hardworking. They carry out their duties to the best of their knowledge and ability, even when it comes to complaints about passengers' rights. The ILT also handles and investigates individual passengers' complaints and also gives an opinion on whether or not a passenger's complaint is justified. The number of complaints received by the ILT has been declining for a few years, but the ILT also indicates that justified complaints have so far led to compensation payments in all cases. There has often been a discussion on how the Regulation should be interpreted on passenger rights in the event of exceptional circumstances. The European Court of Justice recently clarified this. The ILT will continue to ensure full compliance with the Regulation. To this end, it shall carry out inspections at airports and airlines, inter alia. Mr Van Helvert referred to his previously tabled and not adopted motion calling for the role of the ILT to be presented to an independent institution in order to learn lessons and avoid future errors. I believe that this was about the separation of functions and the Secretary of State replied at the time that within the ILT the separation of functions and roles is now sufficiently independent from each other. Comments on the ILT were also made in the framework of the Fyra survey. I think we should study them carefully and answer them in due course. I have answered two more questions, but perhaps the question that Mrs Van Veldhoven now wants to ask is specifically about the ILT.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u135	We are going to ask Mrs Van Veldhoven.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u136	Indeed, I have another question about the ILT. The ILT depends on the budget it receives from the Ministry for the performance of its tasks. If there is less budget, less tasks can be performed. Of course, we can look at working more efficiently, as is the case for any organisation, but at the end of the day the question is whether what we ask of the ILT is still realistic, given the resources we give the ILT. Some 60 fte are now leaving the ILT, while we have already laid down five additional tasks at the ILT even before the Fyra survey. I'm worried about that. The ILT is an important organization. I fully appreciate the commitment and quality of the people there, but let us make sure that we enable the organisation to carry out the new tasks, also in view of the conclusion in the Fyra report that there may be a need for more commitment at the ILT, regardless of the other conclusions in the report. Is the Minister prepared to have an external party look at the number of people at the ILT, related to the plans that one has for other forms of supervision, and then to see whether people, resources and ambitions are sufficiently in line with each other, or whether there may be budgetary pressure?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u137	I agree that if you have less money, you should delete tasks. That's possible, too. Something might come up, but you can take something off. The House must also agree on this. The Chamber often gets to know what more needs to be done, but not what less can be done. In the context of the cuts, I have sometimes mentioned the Chamber matters that I was not going to do anymore, but that always led to discussion. In addition, the ILT can look internally at whether it can do things smarter, more efficient and smarter. I have already said that we have tried to shape the cuts mainly in the management layer and in the supporting functions rather than in the inspection functions. I wouldn't be so quick to choose an outside party. I'm always willing to do my own analysis first. Once in a while, we also ask the question: can you tell us what we are asking you to do? Of course, one always wants more room for manoeuvre, even the Members of Parliament might want more personal supporters to do their job, so you have to look at it carefully and make a proper assessment. I would ask the organisation itself to make that assessment and to warn me if it thinks that proper performance of the tasks is no longer possible and that it has arrived on slippery ground. I haven't gotten the last one back so far. I would like to put that question back to the ILT. Let me start with that. I think the organization should do it first. If the Chamber hears things and wants to discuss them, that's fine. In principle, it is first and foremost a matter of business management, but if the Chamber wants to talk about it, I am fine with that. However, I would not be so quick to start with an external party. I would only do that if the Chamber at that time felt that it was wrong or not working.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u138	It seems to me that it is interesting to have a few independent eyes of someone who is not themselves involved in defining the policy priorities or in shaping the budget that the body in question is getting. Let that advice be given to the Minister on how to deal with this and whether it is still real, especially in relation to the new tasks that are now being added and the conclusions drawn by the Fyra Committee of Inquiry. Hence my question. It doesn't necessarily have to be a large-scale external investigation. Let someone other than the one who directs the ILT daily look at it to see if tasks and resources are still in line with each other. We all have an interest in a proper inspection, which is well equipped to do her job. We can also ask everyone to work more efficiently and to see what can be done about the task. We should all do that, but if the Minister asked me if I wanted extra support, I would say yes. Perhaps I am not the right person to ask if we need to see what is best in the general interest. Hence my suggestion to the Minister: at least let a few eyes look with fresh eyes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u139	If I asked an outsider if Members of Parliament should receive additional support, an outsider would also say: yes, because Members of Parliament naturally have relatively limited support. Only, the Chamber has a limited budget, so you will have to do it with the budget you have. That is the risk of externals who do not take policy into account. The other way around, I think you can also say where you want to put your priorities in policy. The inspection must carry out what the policy requires. That could be European policy or it could be national policy. That is why this involvement is so important. It's not just looking at what you have and what you might want. It's also to see if you can do something a little less somewhere else, and if you can give that a little less political form. Sometimes things are policy-oriented, a certain percentage of controls, for example, and sometimes there is freedom. That is why I say: let's look at it internally first. If it has to be someone who is internally independent, because it does not work directly at the ILT, also fine. We do that all the time. I need to see who's already doing that. Of course, we always pay attention to what we want, what we need and what we have in terms of budget and whether that still fits together. I'll take a look at that first. Independent eyes in their own organisation are also fine with me, but try to avoid a kind of report being sketched out of... You all know what I mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u140	Mr. Chairman. Mind if I ask for some coulance?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u141	No, I just didn't allow that to a colleague either, so unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u142	Let's go back. We talked about whether there is sufficient knowledge at the ILT. That was the question. The Minister replied: I have seen people working there who really know things. Of course, people who know things work there, but it's the bigger picture that matters to me. What we are concerned about, what many parties are concerned about, and what the Committee of Inquiry also says, is: there is something structuralally wrong. We can all study that and we can say that we are working on it and that the people at the ILT are doing their best. I believe that is all well and good, but we are talking about safety here! You should get started on this right now. I don't think the idea of an outside party is that crazy at all. That was also my first motion after my appointment as a Member of Parliament: let an external party see what should be better there anyway, which can be quick wins immediately in solving security problems. That feeling of urgency is always coming back to me. I miss that here. I can taste a little indulgence and my question is whether the Minister would like to take a more active stance in this area in the context of security.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u143	I do not agree with Mr Van Helvert's conclusion, because he says that those people are not competent and that is to the detriment of security.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u144	No, no, that's absolutely not true. I didn't say these people weren't experts at all. In a broad sense, there is little knowledge at the ILT. That does not mean that the individual people who work there are not experts. Of course, they're highly qualified. I'd like to make that right here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u145	I wonder how we can have a problem in a broad sense if the individual people are experts. I believe that there are good people in our organisation who know well what task they are assigned to. There are occasional changes, so sometimes knowledge disappears. At the same time, however, you also gain new knowledge. In the outside world it will be said: yes, they are coming now to check my plane. I'm just saying a few words, but I think they don't know, because they have a critical remark. That's what happens. I've also had people come by to comment on that. However, I do not want to have said in general terms that the knowledge of ILT is too thin. Both at Rijkswaterstaat, at the ILT and in our policy organisation, knowledge is always a point of attention. We must continue to steer that approach. However, I do not see that as a problem. I think the question is more important if we have sufficient human resources to do the things we all want to do. Do we have enough people and sufficient resources to do so and to fulfil our supervisory and supervisory tasks?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u146	Then there could be too little knowledge in quantitative terms, in the form of human power. I have another question about the ILT and the transport of dangerous substances. Carriers have major problems in finding out where they should be if something happens. It depends on the city where it happened where they have to report it. To what extent is the Minister prepared to cooperate in setting up, for example, one national reporting point where you can report incidents in the transport of dangerous substances? I ask this because, for example, in the next few years, more and more dangerous substances will be transported through inner cities via the Brabant route. How does the Minister view that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u147	I don't think it's a crazy idea to have one point where you can report complaints or concerns about this kind of thing, as far as it doesn't already exist. I'm gonna have to check that out, so I'll come back to that in my second term. In any case, I think it would be wise as a government organisation to have as many points of contact as possible and not to have different people responsible for each region. There are two more questions that I said I would come back to later or in second term. I'd better do that right away. Mrs Van Veldhoven asked why I got money from the Infrastructure Fund for basic ICT. The amount required has been achieved through a government-wide distribution key. A contribution has been collected from the government and also from municipalities and provinces. I've also made my contribution. I remember we had that discussion in the Council of Ministers, that we all had to do something about it. If we thought that basic ICT was important, we all had to deliver something. In addition to Chapter XII of the policy budget, the Infrastructure Fund and the Delta Fund have also been used in proportion. All these funds are now in an additional item in Finance that finances large-scale ICT projects. I myself receive funds from them from time to time. That's why, for example, it was removed from the Environment Window, because you eventually want it back. For example, I received 13.5 million in the 2016 budget for the Maritime Single Window IT system. So we've all had to give something up. All ministries have put this at the expense of a number of projects which, as far as we are concerned, have something to do with ICT and hope to receive the same or perhaps more from it. The other question was about the implementation of the Environment Act. The Environmental Act aims, among other things, to improve and speed up decision-making. This also applies, of course, to projects relating to water, roads and rail infrastructure. It accelerates preparatory procedures and licensing and is therefore also cost-effective for these projects. It should therefore be reflected in the projects charged to the Fund following the introduction of the Environmental Law. So we have taken part of the fund to put it in here. Those were the two specific questions I had to answer. This brings me to the end of my reply. I started by talking about a positive position of the Netherlands on the international lists. The starting point is that our country must be kept easily accessible, liveable and safe. It is clear that there is still much to be done to maintain and improve that position. I'd be happy to work with the Chamber on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u148	Thank you very much, Minister. I see Mr Bishop still wants to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u149	The purpose of this interruption is to prevent a motion from being tabled. It deals with a point that seems somewhat alien in this respect, namely the Technical Advisory Committee of the ammonia and livestock regime. I asked a question about that. The answer has been duly included in the written reply. However, the deadlines mentioned in it seem to me to be too long. The report I spoke about dates back to August 2014. Only in the course of this year would something change and nothing would be completed until 2018. Is the Minister prepared to do everything in his power to speed up this process by at least one year? The signals we get from the field about how this committee works are really depressing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u150	For me, it was a somewhat strange question when Mr Bishop asked him. I also had to look up what the Technical Advisory Committee of the Scheme of ammonia and livestock farming is. I thought that Mr Bishop was sitting at the wrong committee with his question, but it turned out that we were dealing with it. I understand that this professionalisation of that system is already on the agenda in 2015. So that doesn't have to wait until 2018. There will also be a better separation between the policy department and the implementation organisation, which will probably also lead to an improvement. Indeed, I understand that it has been said that these steps will be taken over the next two years. Now I dare not promise that it will be ready in 2017, but let me just check whether that is possible. After all, Mr Bishop knows that I always like to prevent Members of Parliament from tabling motions. So I'll let you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u151	I think it would be useful if I could just make that motion later. In its response to that motion, the Minister can then report whether or not it is going to be possible to speed up the process. Then I can rescind the motion after that. Well, I hope I can do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u152	That's good. I have already looked at the officials in the back of the room, but I do not think they can say whether this is possible in 2017. This is a little too detailed. I'll get back to you as soon as I can.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u153	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u154	We shall continue with the second term of office. I call Mr Smaling.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u155	Mr. Chairman. I didn't interrupt much because I thought I could use the second term. That's a little dumb. After all, I have to speed things up, otherwise I will lose my fellow Members after me. I'll start the motions soon. I have a need to file a motion on the NS and ProRail. I don't want to advance the Fyra debate, but if I add up the Limburg issue with NS and the ongoing problems with ProRail, I think it's worth submitting the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that both NS and ProRail are incessant and often negative in the news;]] [[considers that this is certainly partly due to the autonomy and division of these organisations at the time;]] [[having noted that the First Chamber carried out a parliamentary inquiry in 2012 which found that the consequences of many autonomousities and privatisations were not well thought out;]] [[calls on the government to explore options and to pass on consequences for the merging of NS and ProRail and then to turn it back into a state-owned company headed by directors focused on the public interest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Smaling. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XII-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u156	My second motion concerns the ILT. The SP has joined with an amendment from D66. Just to be sure, I shall table the next motion on this matter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Inspection Environment and Transport (ILT) has a heavy and growing range of tasks;]] [[noting that the ILT budget is nevertheless shrinking;]] [[Whereas the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry on Fyra speaks of a "minimalistic exercise of tasks and responsibilities";]] [[Whereas there is also a need on the part of industry to make good use of relevant inspectors in terms of content;]] [[calls on the government, tasks and budget for the ILT to be better aligned,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Smaling. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XII-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u157	My final motion concerns asbestos. That has not been mentioned anymore, because in itself there has been a very good written response. Still, I'm kind of looking. I am thinking of an amendment. In itself, the effort is substantial, i.e. 75 million for the coming years, but it may still need to be increased. I am afraid that we will not meet the deadline of 2024 for the roofs and that farmers in particular will be in trouble. The amendment is not yet in place. It's a little slow, but we still have some time. Just to be safe, I'll file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas asbestos still poses a major environmental and health problem;]] [[noting that several provinces are keen to tackle the problem of asbestos remodelling;]] [[noting that the Ministry of l and M intends to consult with interested parties such as the Association of Dutch Municipalities (VNG), LTO, Verbond van Verzekeringsaars, Bouwend Nederland and housing corporations;]] [[calls on the Government to include the Interprovincial Consultation and to reward the leading role of the Deputy States of Limburg and Overijssel with a speedy pace leading to the implementation of the rehabilitation targets for 2024,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Smaling. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XII-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u158	I also had a motion on waste, but I do not submit it because the written response is adequate. On Dordrecht I also had a motion in preparation. Nor do I submit it, but I would ask the Minister to confirm in the second term that her concern about the accessibility of Dordrecht station is as great as mine and, for example, Mr Hoogland. Thank you for the explanation of the Smaling/De Boer motion. We're both happy about that. We are going to talk about climate and ETS. I have promised Mrs Visser a response to what she has thrown at me. I really did not find it possible for the SP to have a huge tax increase in the counter-budget for the transport sector. In fact, we are reversing the increase in excise duties on diesel and are thus very much in favour of the transport sector and the pump holders in the border areas. We have not increased excise duties in the border region. That's what the VVD did. I do not know what Mrs Visser is suggesting. I can't find that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u159	Mr. Chairman. I am sure I will have another debate on this with Mr Smaling. We only have a limited number of interruptions, but I would like to say that the SP increases the tax on lorries. It's going to be four and a half times as high as it is now. I would like to thank the Minister and her officials for their reply during this budget debate. The Minister doesn't do that alone. Behind her are people who help her answer all the difficult questions. I thank them for their reply and for the fact that they have prepared them in the short term. I would also like to thank the Minister for the commitments she has made. She has promised to look at a new way to innovate within the OV system. I asked her not only to look inside the tubes of the O.V., but also wide out. For example, look at the taxi. Extend the experimental space that we have created, also in the coming year. My colleague, Mrs De Boer, will certainly come back to this during the various meetings that will be held on this subject in the coming period. On a number of other issues raised by the Minister, we will return to the next MIRT meeting. We are talking, for example, about how to make better use of the peaks in a number of places and how to improve the accessibility of Schiphol. We are therefore talking about a number of issues relating to the transport of goods which have been briefly discussed here. To see if I have understood the Minister correctly, I ask two specific questions about this. My first question concerns the nuisance at the locks at Twente. Can the invitation to tender that is currently taking place not only look at an obstacle limit for 16 hours a day but also at an obstacle limit for 24 hours a day? I think that's gonna give a lot of entrepreneurs around there a sip of a drink. My second question concerns something we have heard. Is it true that a new door is much cheaper than the maintenance of an existing door? It's a specific question. Perhaps the Minister could come back to that at the next MIRT meeting. The same applies to the use fee on the track. We have read the Minister's reply. It is good that a stable price development is being considered in consultation with the parties concerned. Will the Minister look at the European regulation allowing for the growth scheme, in order to avoid a massive increase in costs all of a sudden? As far as we are concerned, we can then look at whether this issue should be discussed later during the MIRT meeting. I'm coming to external security. This point was also raised during an interrupting debate between Mr Van Helvert and the Minister. We have asked questions about this, but in the written answer we saw that our question was misunderstood. We have heard that European rules have become much wider and that we are actually applying them much more stringently in the Netherlands, creating a huge regulatory burden. There is a forest of rules. On the road all kinds of signs have to be added. All kinds of declarations have to be made. We are dealing with a forest of rules and signs that are not really necessary for Europe. It is therefore not the case that this is being imposed by Europe. Europe offers us much more scope than we allow in national laws and regulations. Is that correct and, if so, is the Minister prepared to take the machete through and see how we can achieve a more manageable interpretation? I think that we would be doing the carriers in the Netherlands a great deal of pleasure, despite the late time I asked for this. I am tabling a number of motions, despite the commitments made by the Minister. We have talked extensively about the self-driving car and ITS and the Minister's ambitions in this area. The Minister can see this motion, which I, together with Mr Hoogland, support and, above all, use to formulate a concrete level of ambition for next year. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the development of self-driving cars and Intelligent Transport Systems (ITS) is moving very quickly;]] [[whereas the Netherlands has the ambition to be a leader in smart mobility;]] [[noting the need to adapt legislation and regulations which are still too resource-based rather than targets to facilitate this development;]] [[Considering that the physical infrastructure also needs to be adapted to facilitate this development and to take account of these new technological developments in procurement;]] [[calls on the government to make an inventory of and make concrete proposals (including costs and deadlines) on how to set up future proof of legislation and existing infrastructure, and to inform the House of Representatives before the summer,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Visser and Mr Hoogland. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XII-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u160	We talked briefly about aviation, at least about Eindhoven Airport and the ambitions in relation to Schiphol. The Minister said that all ins and outs should be discussed at a different time. As far as we are concerned, this is an important issue, including in the context of the reports that are now in place and the Schiphol Mainport Agenda, which should be adopted at the beginning of 2016. The Minister indicated that he would make a comparison, but perhaps we should add a tooth to that. We have the benchmark of SEO, which compares Schiphol Airport with a number of other airports on a number of cost aspects. We have set up various laws and regulations in the Netherlands. Maybe there's still room to look into that specifically. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Schiphol as a mainport is essential for the Dutch economy;]] [[Whereas international competition between airports and airlines is strong;]] [[Whereas Schiphol is less able to cope with this competition when it has to do with more rules compared to its competitors;]] [[calls on the Government, the Advisory Committee on Regulatory Pressure Review (Actal), to identify and compare all the regulations relating to Schiphol Airports with those affecting the four largest European airports,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Visser and Mr Hoogland. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XII-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u161	We have talked extensively about the motorways and, above all, about their speeds. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that 130 km/h is the standard speed on Dutch motorways;]] [[noting that the speed at the A2 between Utrecht and Amsterdam now varies between 100 km/h and 130 km/h and that varying speed limits are undesirable;]] [[Considering that the A2 is now at the top of the "fine yields," partly due to the lack of clarity in varying speeds on the route itself;]] [[noting that 130 km/h on the whole road does not create obstacles to road safety;]] [[Whereas the laws and regulations in force must be complied with as regards air quality, noise and so on;]] [[calls on the Government to align the maximum speed by day and night in both directions on the A2 between Holendrecht and Maarssen as soon as possible, but by mid-2016 at the latest, to 130 km/h with due regard for legal standards and to plan the additional investments for this project and to better indicate speed with, for example, matrix boards,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Visser and Mr Hoogland. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XII-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u162	It is always good use to provide coverage when you submit something that clearly costs money. What is its coverage, more specific than a special pot intended to improve accessibility in the busiest regions? What specific game does Mrs Visser have in her head for cover?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u163	You have just heard the debate with the Minister, who clearly indicated that she needs a statement of principle from the Chamber because there is an old motion from Mr De Rouwe from 2011 stating that no money should be made available. This motion contains a statement of principle. There are plenty of jars of money, whether it's Better Benutten or agendas for action. I can find some. As far as we are concerned, this is the statement of principle requested by the Minister in her first reply and she can see if she can plan it, including the financial resources.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u164	Mrs Visser is talking about Better Benutten, but that is 100% legally mandatory for 2016. So it can't come out of there. The VVD submits a motion with a clear, firm, financial consequence without indicating the coverage. That's not how I'm used to it from the VVD. Does the VVD believe that unlimited funding from the Infrastructure Fund, which is already so tight and in which such gaps are on management and maintenance, can be made available to enable 130 km/h anywhere? Or is it just this play?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u165	I assume Mrs Van Veldhoven will be able to read the motion in a moment and see that it concerns the A2. She has just heard the interruption debate with the Minister. The Minister has indicated that there is clearly a need for a statement of principle because there is another motion from this Chamber. So we are doing this principle statement for the A2. The Minister indicated that she did not have that picture yet, but that she was going to work on it and also see if she could make that money available. You can find that money.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u166	Actually, I think it's a great move. I understand that the coverage will be within the budget of I and M. When I read the motion, which is only meant for the A2, I think that's a great move. I would like to sign it in this way, so perhaps we can look at it after the sitting before we vote on it. Mrs Visser spoke of another statement by the Chamber. I don't know if she's referring to the De Rouwe motion, but it's totally dated and it's about investments in 2011. It would be totally irrelevant to this situation. Is she referring to the motion De Rouwe?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u167	Yeah, that's what the Minister said in her reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u168	Okay. There is a discussion about it recorded in the Brabants Dagblad. It states that the De Rouwe motion concerns an exact amount of 41.5 million for specific planned expenditure in 2011. That motion refers to the 41.5 million, but that is not the issue right now. Now it's about something completely different. It's not about investments for air quality either, so it's another motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u169	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u170	When I listen to the VVD like that, we're totally in agreement. We can support that motion of the VVD together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u171	That's good to see. I have heard the Minister say in her reply that there was a Chamber ruling on the basis of the motion we are now discussing. You and I were both absent, but the Minister said that she needed a statement of principle from the Chamber in order to get to work, so that that speed could be increased as quickly as possible on the A2 route. I welcome the support of the CDA in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u172	I welcome that motion to finally increase speed on the A2. The Minister has indicated that she wants a ruling from the Chamber. Here's to it. The Minister said it could also be the A4 but I do not read that in this motion. I have a second question for Mrs Visser. It describes a route on the A2. Is that the whole A2 now covered or are there other pieces where you can't drive another 130 km/h? Does that apply day and night?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u173	It applies day and night and at least on the route where it is controlled, because that is also where the five-lane highway is, as I said. The A2 is very long, because it runs all the way to the south of the country. It does not apply to the whole A2, but to the piece between Amsterdam and Utrecht, where the route control also applies.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u174	So the whole piece of Amsterdam-Utrecht will be 130 km/h day and night. I'm happy about that. Why not the A4? The Minister said that she would like 130 km/h there as well. That was also the starting point of the policy. Then why didn't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u175	I asked written questions about the A2 and about the A4. I asked the Minister to look at the A4 and see what that means. I asked those questions in June and August. You have also heard that the Minister is trying to figure out what that means and that she needs a statement of principle from the Chamber to get to work on it. As far as we are concerned, the first step is taken with the A2, because the irritation is mainly on that A2. It is known how the VVD is in the discussion about 130 km/h. I think I can also expect the support of Mr Madlener.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u176	I notice that the VVD is asking for a ruling on the A2, but I have a broader question. Does the VVD still support the energy agreement? In several interruptions to the Minister, I have tried to demonstrate that there is a considerable challenge in the energy agreement for energy savings in road transport. Is the VVD still behind the energy agreement, or is it being broken by the Member of Parliament, Mr Visser, by way of a motion this evening?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u177	Mrs Van Tongeren does attach a great deal of power to me. Of course, I am not going to kill the energy agreement here by myself at nearly a quarter to twelve tonight. We are in favour of the energy agreement and we are simply in favour of it. If this increase in speed would lead to this, I think it would be hell and damnation for the whole of the Netherlands, because then we can stop driving all over the Netherlands. The energy agreement contains ambitions. The transport sector has also supported this. The VVD has always said that resource policy is the best solution. This is also apparent from the past few years. There are still plenty of possibilities in this area. I mentioned an example from the transport sector yesterday: the Ecocombi, which reduces CO emissions. I assume that Mrs Van Tongeren is helping to achieve this. We still have a great deal of work to do in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u178	In any case, I am pleased that the VVD still supports the energy agreement. I would like to hear from the VVD how it rhymes diesel gate and higher speed with the task of reducing emissions enormously.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u179	As far as CO emissions are concerned, we are not going to achieve the energy agreement targets immediately; perhaps I should also help Mrs Van Tongeren to get rid of that illusion. As she knows, we get the best CO efficiency if we are all going to drive 80 km/h, so also in the inner cities, and then we should stop braking and pulling up. So let's get rid of the traffic jams. I think that's the best way to reduce CO emissions. So I think Mrs Van Tongeren is going to support me. And to start that whole discussion about dieselgate right now, right after we agreed to make short interruptions and not have any new debates... I think we are going to talk about this explicitly in the coming period. We have said that these Real Driving Emissions tests are very important. We have also said that resource policy is very important. We can see the fleet change. And for another example, look at the transport sector, in which Euro 6 has made a huge change. It is shown there in practice. In our view, this shows that the car sector is perfectly capable of having ambitions, of delivering innovations and of helping us achieve that clean, green growth that Mrs Van Tongeren so much wants. I'd like to file my final motion now. We talked briefly about unnecessary rules. If a number of rules are agreed at national level, a number of things will no longer be needed locally. I am talking about environmental zones. I would like to table the next motion on this matter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, on the basis of the traffic regulations, several municipalities have established municipal environmental zones;]] [[noting that the Autoletter 2 states that the cabinet does not want municipalities to resort to heavy artillery as environmental zones;]] [[Whereas in view of the fact that emission standards are met in a few places after all, environmental zones are superfluous;]] [[Whereas environmental zones are a particular burden on citizens and entrepreneurs who do not know where to drive which car or van;]] [[calls on the Government to abolish the basis for municipal environmental areas in the traffic regulations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Visser. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XII-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u180	Mr. Chairman. Let's talk about the fines first. We have talked about fines on motorways and fines in the built-up area. The CDA wants to seduce municipalities to allow residents to watch where they need to be flashed at speed in their neighborhood. They can then report it to the police. As a result, the flash capacity is deployed in the places where it is needed. We call on all the municipalities to make this discussable in the triangle mayor-prosecution officer of the district attorney's office. I would ask the Minister to talk to the municipalities that are taking up this initiative and to measure and examine the results of this initiative. Is the Minister prepared to do so? I shall table a motion to this effect. If there is a promise from the Minister, I can drop that motion right away. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas speed controls can be useful in terms of improving the safety of traffic situations;]] [[Whereas citizens are competent in the experience of road safety in their place of residence and are therefore well able to indicate where they consider speed checks to be desirable;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how road safety and road safety can be promoted itself if citizens can provide locations where they believe the police should carry out speed checks,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that this year the A1 consistently has several entries in the top 50 file;]] [[noting that the A1/E8 is the main link between Amsterdam and Berlin and is of great importance for international traffic, but also for national and regional traffic;]] [[noting that problems with bottlenecks such as Eemnes, Muiderberg, Hoevelaken, Barneveld, Deventer and Azelo-Buren are increasing;]] [[Calls on the Government to forward a plan to the Court for the examination of the MIRT on what short-term and medium-term measures are possible to bring down this major road network in traffic congestion top 50,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas congestion is increasing;]] [[noting that the volume of investment for road construction cannot keep pace with the growth of the economy in the coming years;]] [[calls on the government, on the basis of the economic growth forecast of the Central Planning Office, to present a picture of how congestion in the top 50 traffic jams will increase in the coming years in the currently foreseen volume of investment for road construction and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the government is a shareholder of KLM;]] [[Whereas a healthy KLM and a well-functioning Schiphol area are invaluable to the economy of the Netherlands;]] [[noting that KLM's position within the holding company of KLM-Air France is threatened by the weak position of Air France;]] [[calls on the Government to develop pro-active plans to strengthen KLM's position by developing various actions and scenarios and to inform the Court thereof so that, in the event of changing circumstances, pre-defined actions can be effectively deployed,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Helvert. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XII-20]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Helvert. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XII-21]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Helvert. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XII-22]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Helvert. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XII-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u181	I would also like to say a few words. Fortunately, that is still possible. I understand that the Minister is taking over a number of portfolios. On a number of points, however, I do miss the sense of urgency. Think of the maintenance of waterways, rail, freight and dangerous substances. There are really big challenges. I miss it at the KLM, too. I really hope and I trust that the new composition of Minister and Secretary of State will make full progress on those dossiers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u182	Mr. Chairman. I'll file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the implementation of the Real Driving Emissions Regulation should avoid differences in interpretation in the conduct of testing on new models;]] [[calls on the Government, at European level, to promote the establishment of a supervisory authority at EU level,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Van Veldhoven, Mr Smaling, Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Van Tongeren.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XII-24]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u183	First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for her reply. It is a special situation, and I think she has done it very adequately. I would also like to thank her colleagues for this way of doing things. I just read a motion. The CDA notes that the car manufacturer VW deliberately misled the consumer by cheating on the software on the emissions of its diesel engines. With that, VW has purposely fooled our government and our people. For the future, we want to curb this behaviour on the part of car manufacturers. According to the CDA, it is better to invest supervision with an independent authority to avoid conflicts of interest. Unfortunately, supervision is needed. The countries in which cars are manufactured should not have the free hand to carry out the tests or have them carried out by the manufacturers themselves. As we can see, this is gonna go wrong. Like the European Parliament earlier this week, we have a number of arguments for this. Unfortunately, at the moment there is no other independent institution where you can invest this. At the moment, the Commission should see to it, but as has unfortunately become painfully clear, this is totally inadequate. I have one final question and comment. When I listen to the answer about the microplastics, I don't think the ministry is on track with the line that the House of Representatives asked to implement, namely to reduce the use of microplastics in cosmetics for 2017 to zero. In fact, my impression is that the motion is not being carried out. I will discuss this with the new Secretary of State in December.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u184	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to thank the Minister for her answers and commitments. I'll file the following motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas all Dutch people are entitled to clean and healthy air;]] [[noting that the Air Quality National Cooperation Programme (NSL) ends as of 2017;]] [[noting that European air quality standards are not met in all places in the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up a plan to progressively improve air quality and to provide sufficient RIVM budget to carry out sound and adequate air quality research that will enable all current measuring points to be maintained and, if necessary, to increase the amount of measuring points, starting at the beginning of 2017 when the NSL ends,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the public authorities have an exemplary role to play in the field of circular procurement;]] [[noting that the government as a large consumer can play an important role in the transition to a circular economy;]] [[noting that circular purchases by the public authorities are now carried out mainly on an occasional basis;]] [[noting that the government spends EUR 60 billion on sustainable procurement;]] [[Whereas it would be a strong incentive for circular purchasing if a fixed percentage of these were spent at least on circular purchasing;]] [[calls on the Government to aim to purchase 10% circularly,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are many policy initiatives and partnerships aimed at a smooth transition to a circular economy;]] [[noting that there seems to be a lack of a single overarching policy and that the initiatives sometimes seem to be separate;]] [[Whereas clear coordination is essential, as recommended in the Progress Report of the EU Circular Economy package;]] [[calls on the government to create a single overarching programme for the circular economy for the general consultation Circular economy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that it is crucial for companies wishing to undertake circular operations to have reliable information on the availability and quality of raw material flows, so that waste from one company can be more easily used as raw material for another company;]] [[noting that there is no central place in the Netherlands where that information is available and interchangeable;]] [[calls on the Government to examine whether a knowledge base for raw materials can serve to promote the circular economy, for example by providing advice and assistance to entrepreneurs,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Cegerek and Mr Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XII-25]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Cegerek and Mr Van Veldhoven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XII-26]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Cegerek and Mr Remco Dijkstra. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XII-27]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Cegerek and Mr Remco Dijkstra. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XII-28]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u185	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for answering the questions and the commitments. We are very grateful to her for her generous commitment to the Ministry's financial system. On a number of points that I mentioned in the first term, I would like to table motions. My first motion concerns the general periodic inspection (apk), the soot filter and the other environmental systems. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas there are currently around 100,000 cars without a soot filter or other environmental systems;]] [[Whereas cars without particulate filters or other environmental systems emit up to 30 times more harmful substances than cars with soot filter;]] [[Whereas private individuals with a car with removed soot filter or other environmental system rarely run into the lamp or never;]] [[Whereas the removal of a particulate filter or other environmental system from the car is not prohibited in itself;]] [[calls on the Government to prohibit and advertise the removal of a soot filter or other environmental system as soon as possible;]] [[calls on the Government to introduce an effective test on pollutant emissions as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Hoogland and Mr Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XII-29]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u186	Then the mileage fraud. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas measures have been taken within the Netherlands to combat mileage counter fraud;]] [[Whereas the problem of mileage counter fraud does not end at the border, as there are suspicions of counter fraud in large quantities of imported cars;]] [[Considering that the mandatory registration of mileage levels during the apk for EU Member States from 2018 will lead to proper intra-EU registrations;]] [[Whereas in the case of imports of cars within the EU, the RDW is "no assessment" of the reliability of the mileage, while there are often multiple indications that the numerator has been reversed;]] [[calls on the Government to take the following measures to combat mileage counter fraud:]] [[add judgement "unlogically' when imported cars are admitted, indicating, if known, the actual mileage;]] [[exchange of mileage between the countries participating in Eucaris as soon as possible;]] [[mandatory exchange of mileage in the case of im and export cars within the EU as from 1-1-2018,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Hoogland. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XII-30]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u187	Then an impulse for speed bike routes. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas various developments have led to a spectacular increase in the use of bicycles for commuting;]] [[Whereas fast bicycle routes make an important contribution to the accessibility, health, economy and spatial quality of the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas there is an ambitious agenda of the Cyclists Association (File Free) to develop networks of regional speed bike routes;]] [[calls on the Government to give impetus to this agenda and to inform the Chamber about the implementation of this momentum prior to the MIRT note-by-note meeting,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Hoogland and Mr Visser. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XII-31]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u188	Finally, I have a motion on the apk of electric and self-driving cars. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas changes in the automotive sector are moving rapidly;]] [[Whereas, for the time being, the draft has not been adapted or has not been adapted;]] [[calls on the Government, at European level, to make efforts to adapt the apk requirements to the fleet of the future and to inform the Chamber about their progress by the summer of 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Hoogland. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XII-32]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u189	Mr. Chairman. Motorcycle routes are of course a wonderful idea. Only, then you have to wear a helmet again if we soon bike on those routes. That's too bad. The wearing of such a helmet on an e-bike seems to have to be from Europe. At least that's what the Minister wrote. That's ridiculous, of course. Let people decide for themselves! I have tabled an amendment. I would like to hear another response to that in the second term. Furthermore, I have a number of motions. The first motion concerns the 130 km/h on the A2, but also the A4. We have just heard that this Chamber speech, the motion of the VVD and the PvdA, will also apply to the A4. I welcome this in itself, but I am sure that I will table a motion in which the A4 is actually mentioned. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government, as soon as possible, to send a proposal to the Chamber to increase the maximum speed on the A2 between Amsterdam and Utrecht, and the A4 to 130 km/h,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Madlener. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XII-33]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u190	Then the program Better Benutten. The General Court has concluded that this does not produce sufficiently demonstrable effects. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the General Court concludes that the Better Using Programme does not produce sufficiently demonstrable effects;]] [[calls on the government to end the project Beter Benutten and to use the budget the infrastructure in the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Madlener. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XII-34]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u191	Then there is the point of the National Road Traffic Agency, which charges as much as €120 to temporarily suspend a registration number. We have read in the Minister's reply that this would be a cost-covering amount. It seems to me a very high amount of money for an administrative act. In addition, the Minister also says that the amount should be that high, because otherwise it would be rewarding to suspend a registration number for a few months. Yes, of course that has nothing to do with that first argument. Something's not right there. That's why I have the next motion to significantly reduce those costs. Of course, we shouldn't be rushing people into unnecessary expense right now. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the RDW charges €73 to €120 for suspending a registration;]] [[considers that the suspension of a registration number is nothing more than a simple administrative act;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the suspension of a vehicle is significantly reduced in price,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Madlener. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XII-35]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u192	It is a source of annoyance that provincial opcents are sometimes not used at all for roads, but for very different things and even for left-wing hobbies of provinces. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that provinces do not always use provincial revenues for the construction and maintenance of provincial roads;]] [[noting that provincial roads are relatively road-secure, that they represent only 6% of the road network, but that 25% of the victims are on these roads;]] [[noting that the objective of the Empire is to reduce the number of road casualties;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the provinces, to ensure 100% of the provincial increases in favour of the construction and improvement of provincial roads,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Madlener. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XII-36]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u193	Finally, I would like to say a few words about this budget debate. It was, of course, a very bizarre budget procedure, with Mrs Mansveld leaving. The mess on the trail is indicative of this government, which has really messed up. On the road it's not as bad as on the track, but it's still not going well. It's not going well enough; the traffic jams are increasing and the money is actually running out. For a cut, a selection has been made of the infrastructure fund's cash. This is going to cause great damage to the Netherlands in the coming years. In this respect, I hope that there will soon be better times.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u194	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for her answers and for her commitment to consider the extent of budgetary tension that is still real, following an interrupting debate by both Mr Hoogland and myself with her. On a number of other points, too, I should like to thank the Minister for her largely constructive response, but I would like to make a few more points. To that end, I shall table a number of motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Netherlands, in its waste and raw materials policy, is still leaving great opportunities in terms of jobs, innovation and the environment, while the sectors concerned want to become the frontrunner in the circular economy;]] [[Whereas, for example, the chemical sector and the agricultural sector are already carrying out serious explorations to convert biomass and renewable raw materials into raw materials for new materials;]] [[Considering that there are already several successful programmes in which a wide range of instruments are being developed to bring the circular economy closer;]] [[Calls on the Government, with the said parties, to explore the conclusion of an integrated Raw Materials Agreement, to explore where ambitions and bottlenecks lie and who would contribute what to realise the opportunities that exist for the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Court of Justice accordingly,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Veldhoven and Cegerek. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XII-37]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u195	During this budgetary process, several parties expressed concerns about the budgets still available for regional rail. I shall table the next motion for a resolution on this matter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the Government has recently sent the Chamber a proposal to review the investment package until 2028;]] [[Whereas this may have an impact on regional rail ambitions;]] [[Whereas the review will soon be discussed in the MIRT administrative consultation;]] [[calls on the Government not to take irreversible steps regarding the re-examination before it has been discussed with the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Veldhoven and Van Helvert. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XII-38]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u196	We have tabled this motion in this way because we consider it important that, in such a review, the Chamber should not be placed in the position of such an important consideration of priorities. Of course, consultation with the regions is also of great importance, hence this double step. Now for a motion on air quality in the Netherlands. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas air quality in the Netherlands is not yet at the level where healthy air can actually be used;]] [[Whereas so-called hotspots of very poor air quality are located not only in cities but also in the region, for example in tunnels in smaller towns;]] [[Considering that the Air Quality National Cooperation Programme will end on 1 January 2017 and that only a few programmes will remain aimed at cities directly involved in the Empire;]] [[calls on the Government to base its involvement on identified hotspots and not just on cities;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Chamber of how it intends to shape this,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Van Veldhoven, Smaling, Bishop, Van Tongeren and Dik-Faber.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XII-39]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u197	Next, I'm filing a motion on sustainable purchases. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Dutch authorities together represent around 60 billion in purchasing volume;]] [[Whereas regional and local authorities too often lack experience and the latest knowledge, thereby missing the opportunities that sustainable purchasing brings for innovative businesses and the environment;]] [[calls on the Government, together with VNG, IPO and Union of Water Councils, to explore the possibility for regional and local authorities to carry out a sustainable procurement check every five years to identify opportunities for both the government in question and the innovative business community,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van Veldhoven and Agnes Mulder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XII-40]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u198	Then a motion on budget strain on the track. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that on track maintenance there is a budget pressure of EUR 475 million in the period 2018-2028;]] [[Whereas the resolution of this budget pressure can lead to major delays on the rail network, for example through daytime work;]] [[Considering that the plan study Ring Utrecht A27 can save EUR 400 million by means of a smart solution within the "Bak van Amelisweerd";]] [[calls on the Government to choose a solution within the "Bak van Amelisweerd" and to invest the resources saved in the maintenance of rail,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Van Veldhoven, Smaling and Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XII-41]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u199	Finally, I shall table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the first Waste Fund (resulting from the first Packaging Framework Agreement 2007-2012) is expected to remain around 25 million unexploited budget and that this may be released in 2016, depending on the assessment of the final reporting of the Waste Fund;]] [[considers that these public funds should continue to be earmarked for waste and raw materials policy;]] [[calls on the Government to continue to use these funds in a different form in the event of release for the original purpose, namely waste and raw materials policy, as the challenges in this area remain high,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Veldhoven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XII-42]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u200	Mr. Chairman. I'll file the following motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas separation of plastic packaging waste from, inter alia, stations, hospitals and recreational parks can contribute to the national separation objectives;]] [[Calls on the Government, with the packaging industry, to agree that the compensation from the Waste Fund for the collection of plastic packaging will also be available for commercial waste and to agree with NS on the separate collection of at least paper and plastic at all intercity stations by 1 January 2017,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to financially support the project "Every fourth truck synchromodal" with an amount of €125,000 in 2016, 2017 and 2018, assuming that the provinces also support this project financially,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government, in the National Adaptation Strategy in consultation with the VNG and the Climate Alliance, to broaden the spatial adaptation incentive programme to include a climate adaptation incentive programme and, if necessary, to seek additional resources for this purpose,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to conclude a green deal with clothing groups on the application of recycled textiles in new clothing,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XII-43]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XII-44]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XII-45]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XII-46]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u201	Now for the final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government, during the EU Presidency, to present a proposal for the adaptation of the Ecodesign Directive in support of a circular economy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XII-47]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u202	I would like to thank the Minister very much for all the answers we have received. I support the motion of the PvdA and D66 on the circular economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u203	Thank you, Mr President. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the sulphur content of kerosene is not standardised but its reduction improves air quality;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate the possibilities of reducing sulphur content in aviation fuel, to seek European support for this and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas certain diesel vehicles exceed NO emission standards significantly more than previous test results have shown;]] [[calls on the Government to have all types of Euro 3, 4 and 5 diesel vehicles tested for their emissions on the road and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the energy agreement contains agreements on mobility and transport;]] [[Whereas the New Driving is part of the short-term measures contained in the Energy Agreement;]] [[calls on the Government to implement with urgency the agreement to hold a long-term campaign to encourage the desirable change in mobility culture by, among other things, informing the New Riks and the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the public authorities have an exemplary role and have their own sustainable procurement policies;]] [[whereas Volkswagen AG has admitted fraud;]] [[Calls on the Government not to purchase any further "scam" diesel under current contracts, unless that harms the functioning of the public service;]] [[Invites the Government to exclude "dirty" diesels from the ongoing or new procurement procedures for a public car fleet,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XII-48]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XII-49]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XII-50]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XII-51]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u204	Mr. Chairman. Yeah, and we're just gonna keep going. First of all, I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Minister and the official support, the staff, for the proper response, including for the written reply and the respectful way in which it is done. Thank you for that. I'd like to make one motion. I've made an extreme effort to prevent it, but it didn't quite work. Maybe I can still withdraw the motion after filing. Actually, I hope so. The motion concerns the Technical Advisory Committee on ammonia and livestock farming. The fact that the minister had to dig up something from a drawer somewhere and dig deep to find out what this is about already indicates that this is a kind of mole in the budget. It would have been taken out two years ago, but that didn't happen. Then we thought: then we should pay attention to this, all the more so because it causes a lot of irritation and prevents a lot of innovation in the agricultural sector. It is foreseen to achieve the intended improvement in 2018. You don't have to know so much about that to find out that it can really be done a lot sooner. Hence this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is a great deal of dissatisfaction in the field of work with the bureaucratic approach of the Technical Advisory Committee on Ammonia and Animal Welfare, which hinders the desired development of more sustainable housing systems;]] [[whereas Berenschot made recommendations in 2014 for the professionalisation and possible privatisation of the Advisory Committee, but little has been achieved in practice;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the sector and in line with Berenschot's opinion, to speed up further professionalisation and, if necessary, privatise the Technical Advisory Committee on Ammonia and Animal Welfare,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bishop and Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XII-52]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u205	I did not think about this myself in the first term, but I would like to add my voice to the further question put by Mrs Visser on the long-term maintenance locks Twentekanaal. I think that is a very relevant point for this environment and for shipping.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u206	Mr. Chairman. No motions on my part, I say in advance. As the number of speakers progressed, we saw fewer and fewer motions. Maybe that's okay. Maybe that's okay. Maybe that's okay. Maybe that's okay. I still want to do a few things. The first is to thank the Minister for the reply and the debate we have had with each other. A number of things have been clarified and commitments have been made. I think we can get on with that. The second thing I want to do is to say that I will continue to draw attention to the regional railway lines. I've talked about that before. Whether that leads to anything, we have to wait and see. If that is not the case, the MIRT could do it. Otherwise, we will be debating each other to see how we can find solutions to this. I am committed to this because I think that these regional lines are also feeders for the main rail network. One point I didn't mention at all is the Environment Act. However, I would like to congratulate the Minister on the fact that it is all on the right track with the decision-making and implementation. So I think that's gonna be okay. There's one more piece in there that I thought we'd already talked about. I honestly forgot that, so I'm gonna take it in the second term. One will feel it coming: that is the basic policy. We would have another discussion with each other about the possibilities that municipalities have with land policy and how we want to deal with each other in that respect. I would like to hear from the Minister at what time we can expect a proposal on whether we can discuss it with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u207	This brings us to the end of the second term of office. I'm suspending the meeting for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u208	Mr. Chairman. A number of questions have been asked. I'll answer those questions first. The answers are not entirely in the same order as the questions were asked. I hope that they will forgive me; I only had to organize everything in 15 minutes. I shall then deal with the motions and, finally, I shall deal with the amendments that have been tabled. Mr Smaling asked me whether I can confirm that I will make the most of my commitment to a good IC connection to and from Dordrecht. I'm talking to the region and NS about the possibilities. In consultation, we are looking for a solution which also involves the option of co-financing. The Chamber was informed of this on 21 October when it answered questions put by Mr Hoogland. We cannot anticipate the results for the 2017 timetable, but the aim is to reach as broad a decision as possible at the OV- en Spoortable in spring 2017. Do I want that ICU connection as much as Mr. Smaling? I can at least say that we are going to work for it, but it must be possible. Mr Helvert asked whether there could be a hotline for the transport of dangerous substances. There is a reporting obligation for companies in the event of an incident involving the transport of dangerous substances. The hotline for this is at the ILT. When the ILT receives a report, an inspector is sent there. It determines whether measures are necessary and whether the transport can proceed. The ILT now actively brings this hotline to the attention of the public. That is why there are more and more reports. So there's a hotline. Mrs Visser has asked whether it is true that there is a growth scheme at European level. I have already said that we are looking with ProRail, the ACM and the rail transport operators at the possibility of setting the rates for the use fee on a multiannual basis. I will also check whether there is indeed such a growth scheme at European level. I'll find out to see if there's anything else that can do with that, so that the 2016 peak in the tariffs can be average for example with 2017 and 2018. Mrs Visser also asked a question about the doors of Delden and Hengelo. She also asked if placing new doors is cheaper than renovating. I believe that the SGP was also interested in these locks. Placing a new door is more expensive than renovating an existing lock door. However, the installation of a new door has been completed more quickly, which means that there is less interference. This option is approximately 1 million more expensive. Given the cuts in management and maintenance, I am not in favour of choosing this option. However, I would like to challenge the contractor to limit the inconvenience as much as possible. Mrs Visser asked whether a 24-hour restriction was possible rather than a 16-hour restriction. Yeah, the contractor can work more hours a day, for example. In my opinion, this is not expected to save much time. The possibilities for working at night are limited because some materials need processing time. However, in the procurement process, the contractor will be challenged to minimise the inconvenience. I'm gonna say that again. Mrs Van Tongeren asked about the implementation of the transport part of the energy agreement, such as pps, and the amount of energy savings that this should bring. Under the Energy Agreement, mobility agreements have been made that go beyond most other sectors. Maximum CO emissions for the sector have been agreed by 2030 and the fact that from 2035 onwards all new passenger cars should be able to drive zero emission. The National Energy Exploratory shows that, on the basis of the policy adopted and planned, a savings in mobility and transport of 14 petajoules are achieved. With the Car Letter II measures, the agreed savings target for mobility in the energy agreement will be within reach from 15 to 20 petajoule. Additional agreements on the sustainable fuel mix for transport have also been made by private and public parties just before the summer. These include batteries, hydrogen and biofuels. I think this is an answer to your question as a result of public-private cooperation. Mrs Van Veldhoven asked about the problem at tunnel mouths. Is that part of the action plan? Air quality measurements only show persistent bottlenecks in Amsterdam and Rotterdam. The Action Plan will pay particular attention to this. In the case of tunnels elsewhere in the country, no specific standard crossings have been found, according to my information. Since tunnel mouths have very specific characteristics, road managers often investigate tunnels further. For example, specific tunnel research has recently been carried out in Utrecht. It has not shown that there was a bottleneck in the field of air quality. I think we should leave it at that for now. If Mrs Van Veldhoven has other information, we can discuss it at another time. I think I've answered the questions with this. I'm coming up on the motions now. I noticed that there are a lot of motions on matters on which I have already made commitments. Normally, I would say that a motion is superfluous. I won't ruin the party tonight, so I'll give you another substantive response. I'm doing it a little fast, if you'll forgive me. I shall begin with Mr Smaling's motion on item No. 13 about exploring options to merge NS and ProRail and turn it into a state-owned company. I advise against this motion. A merger of both companies has been explicitly investigated in recent years and discussed with the Chamber. They didn't choose that. The solution was sought in a tightening up of the control of NS and ProRail and in a better collaboration. The road has been started towards new concessions, a strengthening of shareholdership and a financial improvement notice for ProRail. I realize that there is a report from the Committee of Inquiry. We will study it and we will study it. I would like to say a few words about this. In the motion in part No. 14 calls on Mr Smaling to better reconcile ILT's tasks and budget. I am prepared to make an analysis of the state of play. The Committee of Inquiry's findings and recommendations are also reflected in a cabinet response, but I would like to address the ILT-wide issue. In the spring we will come back to the Chamber with a content. What are the tasks, what are the FTEs? Did that match well? I would advise against the motion because it states that tasks and budgets should be better aligned, whereas I would prefer to have a political debate with the Chamber first on whether there is a problem at all and, if so, what we would like to do about it. The motion in part No. Mr Smaling's 15th report deals with the problem of asbestos. I wasn't sure how to read this. The last part of the motion calls for rapid acceleration of parties such as Overijssel and Limburg to play a leading role, which must be achieved by better cooperation and by directing us together with other parties, so that the rehabilitation goals can also be achieved in 2024. If I may read the motion in this way, I see her as supporting our policy. We have now made 75 million available. This does not mean that this is an additional financial boost, but above all an effort to coordinate the various parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u209	I'm only responding to all three motions, starting with the third. Of course, you can't get a financial commitment through a motion. I think we are on the same page here. On the motion on the ILT: I myself feel that we are not so far apart. I'm a little cold on my roof. Suppose I change the motion so that it gets closer to the Minister's response, then it might still work. I could therefore change the operative part to: ask the government, the tasks of and the budget for the ILT to reconcile. That is what the Minister intends to do later this year or early next year, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u210	I think you should first note that you have a problem before sending someone on the road to reconcile the tasks and the budget. Suppose you find that the tasks and the budget in certain areas do not match. Then the question of whether you want to reconcile these matters is worth a political discussion. We have more wishes in all kinds of areas than we can live up to. So we could also see that in some areas we should be content with less commitment. After all, it has financial consequences when you say that you bring things into line with each other. That's why I suggest we do some research first. Mr Smaling might be able to hold his motion until that investigation is completed and then put it to the vote if he considers it politically desirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u211	I'll think about that. I'd like to make my first motion. I understand the Minister's betraying her. Yesterday, the Chamber was accused of barking, but not biting. I shall not bite now, but I hope we will be able to bite later this year when we discuss the Parliamentary survey on the Fyra. I'd be happy to put the motion back to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u212	At the request of Mr Smaling, I propose his motion (34300-XII, No. 13), as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 40/94 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the common organisation of the market in fruit and vegetables. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u213	I come to the motion for a resolution by Mr Fisher/Hoogland on part No. 16. This motion calls on the government to carry out an inventory and to make concrete proposals on how legislation and regulations and existing infrastructure can be designed in the future with regard to ITS. I see that motion as a policy support. I myself think that is very important, and I want to work very hard on this. The only thing I am somewhat opposed to is the wording 'including costs and deadlines'. As I said during the debate, I simply do not know how the world is developing in some respects. It is therefore difficult to take measures to this end. Let me consider this motion as a first step. I am going to work out such things as costs, deadlines, times and commitment on the basis of what we can already know. I think this is an "ongoing agenda" and this is going to take years, because more things are coming to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u214	Perhaps it would be good to give a more detailed explanation on that point. The motion is indeed meant to be. The government is not being asked to seek cover at all points right now, but rather to look at what needs to be done in the future and to submit it to the Chamber so that it can take a decision on it. The motion also calls on the government to include this aspect in the upcoming calls for tenders.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u215	If I don't have any obligations yet or I'm not in a procedure, I'd be happy to. I come to the motion for a resolution by Mr Fisher/Hoogland on part No. 17. This motion is about an international comparison of the regulations that airports face. I am happy to do so because I think it is important to compare the costs between the different airports. The Chamber was informed at the end of September about the establishment of the Schiphol Agenda for Action 2016-2025. It also addresses the issue of "level playing field." Given the initiatives that are under way, I do not want Actal to carry out a costly and comprehensive exercise, as is currently proposed. I want to keep room to see how we can shape that ourselves. Actal focuses mainly on Dutch regulations. This is, of course, also about international regulation. If I may interpret the motion in such a way that I can include this action in the action agenda Schiphol, then I see it as supporting policy. If the Chamber so wishes, I will come back to the exact form in which that will happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u216	I see Mrs Visser nodding, so you can interpret the motion in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u217	In the motion for a resolution by Mr Fisher/Hoogland on part No. 18 The government is invited to align the maximum daily and night speed on the A2 between Holendrecht and Maarssen in both directions, as soon as possible but at the latest as possible, with due regard to legal standards. The government is also invited to plan additional investments and to better indicate speed with matrix boards, for example, in anticipation of aligning the speed limit. The policy is aimed at 130 km/h, also on the A2. I indicated I'd like to wait for the court's ruling. I expect the 130 km/h variant to be possible, at least for that part. A permanent maximum speed of 130 km/h is currently under investigation. I believe that introduction in mid-2016 is feasible, provided that there are positive judgments from the judge. I also expect that the measures to be taken will be feasible within that period. If the Chamber gives me room for investment, I'll take that into account in my decision. I am not in favour of putting forward matrix boards in advance if we are already going to do some things in mid-2016. That costs 1.5 million. If you have those six to nine months standing, I think that's a bit of a shame. I consider the motion to support policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u218	The Minister expressly asked the Chamber to table a motion which would remove the obstacles to the Minister's decision to increase speed. That would relate to an earlier motion, De Rouwe. Is this the motion the minister meant? Does this motion remove the obstacle to investing in some sound screens to make that 130 km/h possible? If so, does that also apply to the A4? Has the barrier been removed for 130 km/h on the A4?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u219	As I read the motion, there is "planning the additional investments for this project" and no other part of it is included. I think there was just a discussion between you and Mrs Visser, but here a specific project is mentioned. I am working on all routes to see how we can get the speed to 130 km/h, up to the 77% that I thought was feasible in the Netherlands. I will certainly look at the A4 myself, but as I read the motion, it is aimed at the A2. The petitioner has to say something about that and not me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u220	It was a general obstacle to spending money to take technical measures to increase speed. The Minister specifically mentioned that. This is true on a number of routes, including the A4, which was also mentioned by the Minister. The question remains: has this general obstacle been removed?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u221	As I read the motion, it deals specifically with the A2. I will come to the Chamber in due course and state what else is possible. I can try that again. If I tell you on other routes and tell the Chamber that it would like to do so, then I can still see or check whether there are any obstacles there. But I can't rule on the rest right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u222	I am very pleased with the confirmation given by the Minister that this is specifically about this one project. After all, space in the Infrastructure Fund is already so tight. The VVD didn't give any cover on her motion. Where's the minister gonna get the money?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u223	I have to look at the costs at all; I have already said that. It is no longer a question of road safety measures, which often require a little more investment because, for example, you need to extend a turn-off. It's most likely about sound screens. These are often relatively limited investments. I just need to take a look at that. I told you, I'm coming back to the Chamber to tell you what needs to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u224	Could we get that information from the Minister before this motion is put to the vote? There was talk in the press of a sum of 15 million. Now we often take motions, but a motion in which it is not yet clear where a sum of 15 million comes from makes it difficult to assess them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u225	That's definitely not possible. Now I have to map out what it's all about. Again, I don't think it's going to be a big amount. I am also aware, however, that if I have to do something with this, I will come back to the Chamber and I will have to find a budget within my own budget. I can't get that from another ministry. The Chamber itself is always still there at the moment. This is her appeal in this motion to say: we are not doing it anymore. But I think I have heard several times in the Chamber that I am being called upon to bring the maximum speed on the A2 to 130 km/h as soon as possible. I'd like that myself. I think we can do this, too. We need to remove a few obstacles. They cost money. If that obstacle is no longer there from the Chamber, I think that's fine. Then I can just get to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u226	Indeed, a principle ruling on the A2. We are also looking forward to answering our previous questions about other routes; to get an idea of what that can mean and what it needs. The final part of the motion is due to the fine rain: 48 million a year. That is not for nothing, because people become confused as long as that speed has not been adjusted. Our call in the motion is to clarify so that people don't suddenly see a sign in the middle of the night. By the way, these signs were removed by the Public Prosecutor's Office along the Dutch highways. Whether by matrix boards or by something else, we call on the Minister to indicate that speed much better.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u227	I have done a great deal in recent times about this ambiguity, for example by providing speed information to the hectometer poles. I also said that I think it is rather expensive to do something for a few months, not for the long term, which should cost about EUR 1.5 million. Maybe we can put a temporary system of tilt plates along the road so it's better to do it. I'm gonna have to take a look at that. I am not enthusiastic about this part of the motion. This has to do with cost-effectiveness. I am pleased that the Chamber will also make possible the desire at government level to have 130 km/h as a standard and to roll out further. Then I come to the motion for a resolution, Mr Fisher, on part No. 19. This motion calls on the government to abolish the basis for municipal environmental areas in the traffic regulations. I know that these have been a thorn in the eye for a long time, but I have also tried to point out that the municipalities themselves are concerned whether they are setting up environmental zones or not. I made a traffic code, not to support them in it, but to prevent a different sign in every municipality, making it more unclear for the driver. That's why I'm deposing this motion. Nor am I a great believer in the effects of environmental zones. I do not believe, however, that this motion will mean that the environmental zones will no longer exist, but that this will increase the uncertainty a little.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u228	The Car Letter, which is also a cabinet letter, states that environmental zones are very heavy artillery and that they are no longer needed with this Car Letter. We are not asking to join municipal autonomy, but the Minister has recently provided a basis in the traffic regulations. Our question is related to that car letter. If it says that it is no longer necessary, why not also take away the basis of the traffic regulations? That's just national jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u229	That's not how I understood it. We have not created a basis for municipal environmental zones, but at the request of the Chamber we have created a sign which can be clearly demonstrated by each municipality. They can set up municipal environmental zones, with all the forms of signs they would like. That's how I always understood it. If I'm not good at that, I'll come back to that. For this reason, I do not believe that this will remove the environmental zone, but that the uncertainty will increase.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u230	It is a basis for imposing fines, and also only on Dutch plates. It's now 90 euros, but it's going to be 160 euros. When driving without a seatbelt in a car there is even a lower fine. The point is that this has provided the basis for imposing additional fines within the environmental zones. That is very strange, if you then impose an additional tax in the Car Letter with the vehicle tax. It can't be both. That is why we say: that basis must be removed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u231	Mrs Visser's speech is clear. She indicates that you have a kind of double tax base. I haven't experienced that myself. I leave the judgment to the Chamber, because the Chamber has once called on me to realize this signage. That gives everyone time to look into it and the Chamber to see if it wants a different approach in the majority than before. I know it was close at the time of the vote. I'm getting to the motion on part No. 20, in which Mr Van Helvert asks to investigate how (experience of) road safety can be promoted if citizens can propose locations which they believe should be monitored by the police. I cannot, of course, say that the police must carry out these speed checks, but that is not how I read this motion either. I read that Mr Van Helvert wants to have some sort of place where people can come with such initiatives. I know that Safe Traffic Netherlands has hotlines for citizens for unsafe points, unsafe thresholds and unsafe traffic situations. I think it is right to point out to the UN that it can also ask the citizens to pay attention to this, so that this kind of thing can also be reported to the UN. Eventually one can pass it on to the police, but I think he also understands that this is not an intervention for the Empire or for I and M. It's really up to the local police to figure out what to do with this. I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. Now the motion from the CDA to item No. 21 over the A1. The CDA is calling for short-term and medium-term measures for the A1 to lower this important traffic artery in the traffic peak 50. Of course, this is a very important road. We invest in a lot of roads. Every time we solve a bottleneck, there is another way at the top of the file top 50. That's the beauty of it: something disappears from it because it invests in it, but then there's another one on number one. So there's always a number one. I cannot say that I am going to push forward the short- and medium-term measures in this direction. This is simply part of the MIRT consultation, in which we weigh all priorities against each other. The A1 is very important to me. Investing in this road is very important to me too. There are important parts, such as the A1 in the Schiphol-Amsterdam-Almeredeel, or the A1 at the A27, or the Node Hoevelaken, or the A1 between Apeldoorn and Azelo. But to unpack the A1 in its entirety and to do the rest, ignores the other priorities we have in this country. I therefore advise against this motion. In the motion of the CDA to item No. 22 I am asked to show how traffic jams in the top 50 traffic jams will grow in the coming years with the currently foreseen investment volume. I also advise against this motion. I inform the Chamber annually via the file top 50 about the current state of affairs with the traffic jams. I periodically inform the Chamber on the basis of the most up-to-date models about the future bottlenecks in the NMCA. This is foreseen for next year, and also on the basis of the new WLO scenarios. I therefore advise against this motion. This means some kind of extra activity, while this information is already available in those other two studies. I come to the motion of the CDA in section No. 23 on Schiphol. The motion asks the government to develop a proactive plan. It is important that measures are taken quickly with Air France, as with the KLM. Both the French Government and the Dutch Government believe that cost reduction and productivity increase are extremely important. However, negotiating a new agreement is up to the management of Air France and the trade unions. Neither the French Government nor the Dutch Government are at the table. The company is primarily committed to developing a future strategy. It is of course also a listed company, for which a government cannot develop scenarios. We can strengthen the position of the company KLM by improving the conditions at the home port of Schiphol where possible. We are also going to do this through the Schiphol Agenda for Action. The government is very committed to this. So I advise against this motion. I'm getting to the motion on part No. 24. One supervisory authority in the EU for the RDE. In the AA on this point, I have already said that one supervisor is not a solution to prevent fraud. The independence of current supervisors is sufficiently secured. We're going to run tests according to European rules. They're getting tighter now. As far as I'm concerned, that's the most important thing. I would prefer there to be more and better cooperation between the different supervisors than a new body. That's why I don't recommend the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u232	Last week, the European Parliament said that it would be wise to set up a single independent supervisory authority. That has to do with the fact that things have gone very wrong. These are results that we do not want to achieve. It must be avoided that it is too attractive for countries, that there is too much pressure in a country with a car industry with a lobby, and that things go wrong there. Well, then it's okay if you have one independent supervisor who can see that. Unfortunately, things did go wrong on that point. In the field of agriculture, there is EFSA. Why can't this work?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u233	I have said before that it has not gone so far as the various review bodies have turned a blind eye. It went wrong because an individual car company has installed software to mislead the situation. Each country controls a number of car brands, often the car brands from its own country. The monitoring organisation must be independent. This also applies to our own supervisory bodies. These should not take out anything better for their own car brand than for other car brands. There has never been a complaint from car brands about the review of a car brand from another country. That's very telling. The market is incredibly competitive. If you have any idea that the review organisation of another company favours that party, then of course you are there as the chickens to draw the attention of the European Commission to that. I therefore believe that these organisations are truly independent in their work. That's one. Secondly, if there is a Real Driving Emissions test and car companies are no longer allowed to do all those different own tests with taped doors and the mirrors off, there is just one test. Then everyone can do it the same way. I think that too works well. I think it is important that there should be more exchanges between existing organisations on best practices. How are you supposed to run those tests? I don't think it's necessary to step on it with an extra organization. I know that the European Parliament is a fan of that, but I am not.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u234	I notice that it is very painful that this kind of thing comes to light from the United States. Apparently, it's necessary to guarantee independence. So far, we have not managed to achieve that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u235	I'll come to the motion in part No. 25, by Mrs Cegerek, on RIVM and air quality. Together with the seven major cities, an action plan has been drawn up to address the persistent bottlenecks. Air quality will also be monitored after the NSL. I already promised. I want to do that in the most efficient way. Which way that is, of course, depends on available techniques and innovations. I do not want to commit to the number of measuring points, but if I may read the motion in such a way that the measurements must be sufficient to continue to monitor air quality properly, I see the motion as supporting policy. I find one part exciting in the motion: where sufficient budget for RIVM is available. We think there's enough budget available now. I'm also assuming the current budget. In fact, we're assuming that it might even be a little more efficient. I think that's a good thing, too. I do not want this to be an open wish, as I say on other motions. If you ask an organization, there's always more money. So I'm doing it within the budget. I'll make sure they're properly monitored. I see the motion as a policy support. If there is ever, in the future, a bottleneck, then the Chamber can tell us. The motion in part No. 26 is about the government purchases of 60 billion circular. It is asked whether 10% of sustainable procurement can be circular. I understand that this is not 10% of the budget, but 10% of the activity. I am pleased about that, because that means that it will not be such an enormous administrative burden. We ourselves consider this to be important. I leave it to the Court to decide whether it wants to do so in this way. The Cegerek/Dijkstra motion in part No. 27 on the circular economy, I consider to support policy. I will include this point in a letter I will send to the Chamber for the AO Circular Economy. In that letter I will indicate the outlines of the intended overarching programme. The Cegerek/Dijkstra motion in part No. 28 concerns the creation of a knowledge base for raw materials that can serve to promote the circular economy. I see this motion as a policy support. I also refer to this point in the letter I will send to the Chamber for the AO Circular Economy. The motion Hoogland/Van Tongeren in part No. 29 is about the soot filter test. In the debate, I have already indicated that you cannot remove the filter illegally. The motion calls for this to be included in some kind of ban, including a ban on advertising. In its letter of 6 July, the Secretary of State announced that he would examine how to monitor this at the apk and the possibilities for doing so. I'd like some space to come back to this. I ask the author to hold this motion in order to ascertain what the consequences are and what is legally possible and what is not possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u236	I saw Mrs Van Tongeren nodding behind me, so we're holding the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u237	At the request of Mr Hoogland, I propose his motion (34300-XII, No. 29). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u238	The motion Hoogland in part No. 30 is about mileage counter fraud. I see this motion as a policy support. I'm committed to countering the mileage counter fraud. However, I would like to note that the option to indicate "unlogically" has been added when it comes to imports of cars already registered in the Netherlands and to import cars with a foreign apk-report in which the counter-position is higher than the counter-position in the vehicle. I will do this later, if there is that obligation and if there are bilateral agreements, also for the cars in which that can be done. I continue to advocate it in Brussels, but of course I depend on other countries. It says that there should be a mandatory exchange of mileage levels by 01-01-2018. That is what I advocate for every country with which we have been able to meet bilaterally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u239	That's good, but I have one more point. I know the Secretary of State is organizing hackatons to read out those cars. Suppose the RDW finds out via the computer that the mileage is different with an imported car. Is the Minister prepared to have it examined whether it can be indicated on a form or on the import documents?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u240	I'm sure I'm willing to do that. If you know something, but there's nothing you can do with it, it's frustrating. Nothing is more frustrating than that, even for our own people. I will certainly have that examined. In the motion Hoogland/Visser in part No. 31 the government is invited to give an impetus to the agenda of the Fietsersbond and to inform the Chamber about the implementation of this impulse prior to the MIRT notary consultation. I see this motion as a policy support. I'm working on local authorities in the framework of Tour de Force. In addition, I am working in twelve "Better Benutten" regions on measures that encourage the use of bicycles. I'm also working on bike highways. That's about $100 million. So I see this motion as a policy support. The motion Hoogland in part No. 32 is about electric cars and the apk. I see this motion as a policy support. Electric cars are now also on the road and must also undergo an apk. The proper functioning of tyres, lights and brakes does not depend on whether the car is electric or not. In the future, it will be considered in Europe whether it is necessary to impose additional requirements. In the Madlener motion in part No. 33 the government is asked to send a proposal to the Chamber to increase the maximum speed on the A2 between Amsterdam and Utrecht, and the A4 to 130 km/h as soon as possible. I see this as support for policy, because I also intend to steer it in many areas. I will inform the Chamber further if and when a speed increase on the A4 is possible. It must be done within the rules in force. I will also indicate what measures may be needed to achieve this. Research will be started on this. In Mr Madlener's motion to item No. 34 the government is invited to abolish the Better Benutten programme, as the General Court concludes that it produces insufficient demonstrable effects. I'd like to nuance that. The Court of Auditors has said that it is not yet in a position to assess the effects. This does not directly describe the programme as having no effect. I am not going to stop and will inform the Chamber next month about the state of play and the results of the Better Benutten programme. I trust that after that presentation Mr Madlener will be excited and that he will wish that he had never tabled this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u241	I will continue the motion pending the fantastic report of this minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u242	At the request of Mr Madlener, I propose his motion (34300-XII, No. 34). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u243	President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 35 on suspension of registration. The suspension of a license plate is intended for someone who doesn't use the car for a long time. The current model was drawn up in the 1990s after consultation with the permanent committee of the House of Representatives. The suspension rate shall be equal to three months of vehicle tax in order to have a threshold to suspend. That threshold was deliberately built in at the time. If extended, there is a lower rate. So if it's real for what it's meant for, the rate will also be lower. I think this is a systematic. Therefore, I advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u244	The Minister stated in the written reply that it was not only a question of building a threshold, but that it should also be a cost-covering amount. That contradicts each other. On the one hand, it is said that it must be a high amount of money to build in a threshold, otherwise it will be rewarding. On the other hand, you can question the cost level, which is the starting point for pricing. Is the Minister prepared to build in another threshold, for example once a year or something like that? Then we can really get to that cost-effectiveness. After all, it doesn't have to be that expensive. And then there's a threshold.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u245	I think this in itself is a good question from Mr Madlener. When I read the answers, I also thought: it is one or the other, it is cost-covering or a threshold. I have read that all rates of the RDW should in principle be cost-effective. But that's what you do about the deadline. Later you will see a lower rate. And a threshold in itself makes sense to prevent it from happening too often. Now Mr Madlener says something different than it says in the motion. He asks: are you willing to investigate another variant in which it is made unattractive, for example a variant where it happens once a year? I'm prepared to do that. However, I must oppose this motion because I have no other instrument. I'd be happy to see if any other instruments are possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u246	I will amend the motion and forward it to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u247	Since I don't know how the motion is modified, I'm gonna hold off on it for a while. Well, then I guess it'll turn out all by itself. Mr Madlener has a motion for a resolution on item No. 36 on the provincial increases. I have intensive consultation with the provinces on promoting road safety. The BDU funds are also intended for this purpose. The use of opcenten is a competence of the provinces themselves. I have no reason to see that there is more money to go to the provinces in this area. So I'm deceiving the motion. In the motion by Mrs Van Veldhoven and Mrs Cegerek to item No. 37 is asked to explore the conclusion of an integrated raw materials agreement and to explore where bottlenecks and ambitions lie and who would contribute what to realise the opportunities that lie ahead for the Netherlands. I consider the motion to support policy. I will take this into account in the overarching programme for the circular economy, the outlines of which are contained in the letter I mentioned earlier. In the Van Veldhoven/Van Helvert motion on piece No. 38 on the re-examination of the railways, the government is asked not to take irreversible steps with regard to the re-examination before it has been discussed with the Chamber. That motion is policy support. Of course, the Chamber has the last word. This is dealt with in the MIRT note-by-note meeting. I do think you should settle for a moment, and that's why I call it. If it is postponed to eternity, we can spend nothing. In the motion-Van Veldhoven c.s. in piece No. 39 the government is invited to base its involvement on identified hotspots and not just on the cities. This will be about the Air Quality National Cooperation Programme, the NSL. The action plan is aimed at solving hotspots and bottlenecks. Where standards are persistently and structurally not met, additional measures are considered. This is currently only the case in Amsterdam and Rotterdam. That is why I do not recommend the adoption of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u248	The motion actually calls for a ruling of principle. I think the Minister did some of that in her reply. As far as she's concerned, it doesn't just have to be about the cities. If there were hotspots and bottlenecks anywhere else, she wouldn't necessarily be against it. Then she said: I don't know all about it yet, so let me have a look at it. That's why I filed the motion. Now the Minister says: I withdraw my previous words and look only at the cities? Or does she still say that it must be about the problems, and where there are problems, will I see how we can assume our responsibility from the Empire? 'Cause that's what the motion is asking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u249	I am in an area where I am not active on a daily basis. As I look at it, we have said that although the NSL has ended and we no longer see bottlenecks around the highways, we still see a number of bottlenecks in urban areas. The Empire could say: it is farther up to those cities to look at it. However, we ourselves have a national interest in it, precisely because so much is happening at urban level, to see how we can contribute to a solution. That is why the Secretary of State has agreed with a number of cities to continue the NSL, to jointly consider how we can find solutions. We do not see any other problems at the moment. It may well be that in the future you will find bottlenecks on other points, but then too, the Empire does not say in advance: then I will also include them in a programme. Then too, like now, the question will be whether the Empire thinks it wants to interfere. There are reasons for that, aren't there? Or is it typically something local, for which a local solution has to be found? There is therefore no principle that we will always tackle all hotspots, but there is a statement that we think it is important to solve bottlenecks in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u250	Then I think that if she read the motion very carefully again, Minister could come to the judgment of'supporting policy'. Previously, we really had a national program. If you had a hotspot or a problem, you could knock on the door under that program. Now there are only individual agreements with cities and the framework is actually gone. There is also a reason for this, but that is why it is important for the Minister, for example in the context of this motion, to support the statement of principle that, if there is a real hotspot, this can be noticed. The consideration "is there really the need for the Empire to be involved, or can this be fine locally?" is of course always up to the cabinet. Of course, I give that freedom to the Minister. It is not intended that the Empire should do it everywhere, but it should not only be limited to the cities.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u251	Two things. Firstly, the Secretary of State has chosen to continue the programme and consciously chose these cities, perhaps because no other bottlenecks were seen, but perhaps also for other reasons. So I do not want to open that up to all sorts of other things. Secondly, Mrs Van Veldhoven says that the Empire does not have to participate immediately if a hotspot is spotted; the Empire may then make the choice to be involved or not. We can do that, because hotspots are already being spotted. We all have measuring points, so if there is a bottleneck somewhere, we can see that. I see the motion in part No. 39 as a motion that will open the door in the future to all kinds of issues that may not be at all of the Kingdom. That's why I don't recommend the motion. Furthermore, I think it would be best to discuss this point at the time when the further programme is being discussed. Perhaps the authors of the motion will then be able to tell us where they think there are still problems. We have been talking for a while about the tunnel mouths; do we have any problems there or not? I assume that the Secretary of State has deliberately chosen to do so only in the cities. In the Van Veldhuizen/Agnes Mulder motion in part No. 40 the government is invited to carry out research, together with the VNG, the IPO and the Union of Water Boards, on sustainable procurement and on the implementation of a sustainable procurement check, to identify opportunities for both the government in question and the innovative business. I think there is already a lot going on in this area. The option mentioned in the motion can be explored with IPO, VNG and waterboards, but that is what they must want. The requested in the motion should also not duplicate the design of the benchmark for socially responsible purchases, in order to avoid unnecessary administrative burdens. That is why I shall leave the vote on the motion for a resolution on item No. 40 to the Room. In the motion-Van Veldhoven c.s. in piece No. 41 the government is invited to choose a solution within the "Bak van Amelisweerd," which could save 400 million, which could be used to maintain the railway. I do not recommend this motion, not only because I find a slide between the modalities undesirable, but also because we have already discussed the PAH at Utrecht and because the Chamber has decided to do it in the way we have designed it now. In the Van Veldhoven motion on piece No. 42 The Government is invited to use these funds for other waste and raw materials policies in the event of the discharge of funds from the Waste Fund. I would ask the authors of the motion to hold it. The Waste Fund was established to implement the Packaging Framework Agreement, which expired in 2012. The Waste Fund is almost done with its work. The board will send us a draft final report with the final findings on the spending of funds in the fund. We expect this report to be sent to us in mid-November. It is my intention to send the report, with my reaction, to the Chamber. I have taken note of the appeal to the government to keep the remaining resources available. I would ask Mrs Van Veldhoven to hold her motion until I have sent the Chamber my response to the report.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u252	That seems to me to be a real request, especially since short-term reporting can be expected. I'll hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u253	At the request of Mrs Van Veldhoven, I propose her motion (34300-XII, No. 42). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u254	In the motion-Dik-Faber in part No. 43 The Government is invited to agree with the packaging industry that the compensation from the Waste Fund for the collection of plastic packaging will also be available for commercial waste and to agree with NS on the separate collection of at least paper and plastic at all intercity stations. I would advise against this motion, because the Waste Fund is not intended for commercial waste. As part of the green deal for waste separation at stations, we agree on separate collection. I believe that the debate on how best to separate waste at stations can best be conducted in this context.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u255	The point is that there are now opportunities for separate collection in many places, including stations, but also in hospitals and recreational parks, for example, because it is not financially convenient. The green deal concluded with NS is also difficult because the finances are still a problem. In line with the polluter pays principle, it is not illogical for businesses to contribute through the Waste Fund to the cost of disposing of waste. It's in the motion. I hope that after this explanatory statement the Minister will reconsider her assessment of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u256	I'm just looking, because I think I've also seen this question come across in the written questions. It is not up to the Empire to distribute the budgets of the Waste Fund and the Waste Fund is not intended for commercial waste either. There's a green deal station. I think we should talk about how you could finance this in that green part and what you could do on it. I must at least discourage this motion. Then I come to the motion for a resolution by Mr Dik-Faber on part No. 44. It asks the government to financially support the project "Every fourth truck synchromodal" with an amount of €125,000 in 2016, 2017 and 2018, assuming that the provinces also support it. I welcome the objective of that project, but will not be able to support it in this general form. Such a contribution amounts to a general subsidy and, as you know, in line with government policy, I stopped subsidies for the various information offices in 2012. However, I see a good connection with the MIRT studies Freight Corridor East and South Netherlands. I am prepared to discuss with the Inland Navigation Information Office whether it is possible to have a more limited, targeted customised task carried out under the umbrella of the MIRT studies Freight Corridor East and South Netherlands. As it is written here, I would advise against the motion, but you will hear what I would like to do in the same area. Then I come to the motion for a resolution by Mr Dik-Faber on part No. 45 calling on the government to broaden the National Adaptation Strategy, in consultation with the VNG and the Climate Alliance, to a climate adaptation incentive programme and, if necessary, to seek additional resources for this purpose. The spatial adaptation programme focuses on the awareness of provinces and municipalities. This is the purpose of the incentive arrangement. For the time being, I believe there is no reason to say that the approach in the scheme is inadequate. I therefore advise against this motion. The motion by Mr Dik-Faber at section 46 asks the government to conclude a green deal with clothing groups on the application of recycled textiles in new clothing. I am prepared to explore with the sector whether a green deal for the re-use of clothing is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u257	May I ask you to make a clear assessment of the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u258	Judgement of Chamber, I say, because I am prepared to do so, but it is a motion by Mrs Dik-Faber and I do not know what the rest of the Chamber thinks. In her motion in part No. 47 Ms Dik Faber asked the government to come forward with a proposal during the EU Presidency to amend the Ecodesign Directive in support of the circular economy. I learn a lot in two days about all kinds of terms. The Netherlands, together with Belgium and Germany, is committed to broadening the Ecodesign Directive so that more products are designed sustainably. I see this motion as a policy support. In the Van Tongeren motion in part No. 48 The government is invited to investigate ways of further reducing the sulphur content of aviation fuel, to seek support for it at European level and to inform the Court of Justice about it. As I indicated in the first report, measures are being taken to determine the chemical composition of kerosene internationally. By letter dated 25 March 2015, the Secretary of State informed the Chamber that, on the initiative of my Ministry, the Environmental Committee of the European Civil Aviation Conference (ACAC) also discussed the sulphur content of aviation fuel with Member States and industry. In the European Environment Committee, there is little support for reducing the sulphur content of aviation fuel, as the international success of such a measure is unlikely. Therefore, it is now considered that there are more likely traces such as the reduction of fuel consumption and the reduction of fine dust emissions by technological measures at source, the aircraft engine, and the use of biofuels with a lower sulphur content. I advise against this motion. I come to the Van Tongeren motion on part No. 49. It calls on the government to test all types of diesel vehicles Euro 3, 4, 5 on the road for their emissions and to inform the Chamber accordingly. I advise against this motion. In the past, TNO could only measure Euro 4 diesel on the roller bank, as no mobile measuring equipment was available yet. These measurements were then carried out under realistic driving conditions representative of the road situation. The Euro 5 diesel cars were tested both on the roller bench under realistic driving conditions and on the road, but I have already mentioned this. It also states that there are only small differences between the two types of TNO testing, which shows that the test on the roller bench such as TNO, which performs for diesel cars, is also representative of the actual emissions on the road.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u259	I tried very hard to hold my breath, but this is exactly what the whole Dieselsjemel story of Volkswagen is all about: you can't put the car one-on-one from the roller bank to the road. This is now given as an argument not to have to look anymore. We do not know at all whether Euro 3 and 4 also contain fraud software. It is precisely the realistic test that is intended to establish this. That is why I tabled this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u260	I have already said in the debate that I am not technically so deep within it that I know whether this still affects it. In any event, TNO now indicates that it does not give a better understanding as far as it is concerned. I also said that, should that influence prove to be there, I cannot answer that question technically now, assuming that TNO takes this into account in all its tests, both on the roller bench and on the road. If new insights play a role, they can also be used. So I advise against this motion. Then I come to the motion on part No. Mrs Tongeren's 50 calls on the government to implement with urgency the agreement to hold a long-term campaign to stimulate the desirable changes in mobility culture, including Het Nieuwe Rijden, and to inform the Chamber about this. You may of course ask yourself what the desirable change in mobility culture is, because it will differ between one Member of Parliament and the other. Here's what I'm gonna say. The SER agreement has agreed that market players will define a next step for Het Nieuwe Rijden. That makes sense, because The New Driving leads to fuel savings and it provides the car user with money. The RAI, the BOVAG, the VNA and the ANWB are working that out right now. So the government isn't gonna do that campaign, it's gonna do the other parties. If I may read the motion in this way, I consider her to support policy. If Mrs Van Tongeren wants us to start a government campaign again now, I must discourage her.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u261	Let me get this straight: I saw Mrs. Van Tongeren nodding. This means that the Minister can interpret the motion in such a way that it supports the policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u262	Yes. That text is not the interpretation of the House of Representatives, but the literal text contained in the energy agreement. If we once again agree that it is indeed going to happen as the energy agreement stands, I am already much more satisfied. I would like to thank the Minister for leaving this motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u263	Let me give you a clear explanation. Of course, all the agreements have been worked out in the energy agreement. It has been agreed that not the government is going to do that campaign, but that the other parties are going to do that. This is another text from before it was worked out. That's why I'm so clear about what's going on. In the motion in part No. 51 is asked to exclude dirty diesels from ongoing or new procurement procedures. I'm dissuading the motion. On 6 October, the Minister for Housing and National Service sent a letter on this matter to the Chamber. It's Pon signing up for tenders, not Volkswagen. Legally, there's no way to exclude Pon from calls for tenders, and that's why I'm not recommending the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u264	Pon's been charged with official bribery. On those grounds, that contract was terminated prematurely. There is now a new call for tenders to be published on 1 July 2016. It is indeed possible to exclude Volkswagen from the tender because Volkswagen admitted fraud. I can also deliver the article numbers. So it's both possible. This would also be consistent with how the government intends to implement sustainable procurement. So it's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u265	If an organisation itself does something that isn't right, you can exclude that organisation from the call for tenders. It wasn't Pon at the shuffle diesels, because Mrs Van Tongeren's case is about something else. Pon cannot therefore be excluded for the current activities. However, Mrs Van Tongeren is talking about future tenders. I believe that the government should also be clear about what it wants to buy and how it intends to do it. I understand that Pon is going to recall all the diesels and that by the end of 2016 they want this software removed from all cars. In this way we would say in advance: these cars are no longer allowed to participate, even if they have become "normal" cars again. So I'm just dissuading this motion. I also think that she should be in the hands of the Minister for Housing and National Service. It has already been discussed and the Minister has already sent a letter to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u266	I see Mrs Van Tongeren wants to respond to this again. You are not going to convince each other on this point, Mrs Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u267	Sustainable procurement policy was governed by the Secretary of State and is now governed by the Minister. I'll try this on Security and Justice, too. Everyone here refers to the other. It says, "Shuffle diesels." That means that diesel cars in which there is no more cheating are allowed. I would like to amend the text of the motion to make it clearer. I am very sorry that the government does not say clearly that it wants to enforce the law in the Netherlands and...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u268	Thank you. This is enough, Mrs Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u269	I say again that I understand that there are simply no legal possibilities for this. I'm getting to the motion on part No. 52 by Mr Bishop and Mrs Dik-Faber, the motion which Mr Bishop would like to withdraw. Maybe he does, maybe he doesn't. I aim to accelerate professionalisation. Let me say that I would like to accommodate Mr Bishop in this by doing so in 2017. However, I have a 'but' which makes me afraid to promise this to Mr Bishop; I never want to make empty promises. I do not know whether there is a need for regulatory change. If regulation needs to be amended, it may not enter into force until 1 January 2018. I do not know what Mr Bishop wants to do with this. In any case, I will do everything I can to speed it up as far as possible. I only feel limited by the need for a change in the rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u270	What's the verdict on the motion, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u271	I'll leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u272	I hope she can count on sufficient support. Perhaps the Minister could explain in writing what is actually possible on this point. It's clear that we share the intention, but how do we proceed?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u273	I think I can. I'm not in that deep. I'm actually saying we need to see how fast we can do it. I think it's part of the AO habitat. I don't really know what it's covered by. Maybe this could be included in a collector's note somewhere. It must state how fast it can be and whether or not we see obstacles to doing it before 2018.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u274	I would like to come back to the motion on item No. 35, which means I want to lower the price of temporarily suspending a license plate. These are of course people who only drive in summer in a second car and in winter who want to have a car in the garage. I understand it shouldn't pay to suspend your car every vacation. There must therefore be a threshold, but that does not have to be a financial threshold. The Minister thought that was logical, too. I would therefore like to amend my motion. The operative part would then be worded as follows: That would leave the Minister the room to just take a good look at that. I hope that the Minister will be able to leave the vote on the motion in that form to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u275	The Madlener motion (No ) has been amended to read as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the RDW charges €73 to €120 for suspending a registration;]] [[considers that the suspension of a registration number is nothing more than a simple administrative act;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how the cost of suspending a registration number can be significantly reduced in price,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She gets no, was no. 35 ().
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u276	Judgment Room. I come to the amendments. That's not very many, so we're approaching the end. The first amendment is the amendment to item No. 7 by Mr Madlener. This is about extra money for traffic flow and road safety on the road network. I would advise against this amendment. From the Empire I have a responsibility to take measures to improve traffic flow and road safety on the national road network. The road safety guidelines are used for construction and maintenance of national roads. I have budget available in the Infrastructure Fund for the implementation of the More Secure Package 3. At the busiest spots of the national road network there is also traffic management: signals above the road that prevent rear-end collisions and thus make an important contribution to safety. I've got a whole story here. The Better Benutten programme also includes structural adjustments to the underlying road network. The responsibility for road safety and traffic flow lies with the provincial and municipal road managers. I do have intensive consultations with them on this. Every now and then, I return to the Chamber, for example, the number of seriously injured. Soon, another letter will be sent to the Chamber. The proposed coverage Article 13 RO has implications for administratively established agreements with the region on the cleaning of contaminated soil according to the covenant soil and subsoil. The agreement is that all emergency sites should be dealt with by 2020. Mr Madlener asks me to put more resources into road safety, but other parties are asking me to put more resources into rail or bicycle paths. I make the choice as set out in the 2016 budget. That is why I do not recommend the amendment. I come to the amendment to item No. 8 by Mrs Van Veldhoven. I would advise against this amendment. This calls for a contribution from the investment funds...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u277	For the sake of clarity, we are now talking about the amendment to item No. 12 (34300-XII) over €480,000. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u278	Yes. I am now going to explain why I reject the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u279	As a result of the Minister's debate and commitment to carry out a scan, it seems logical to me that we should wait for the scan before we allocate any further funds to the ILT. I thank the Minister for that commitment. There was also a motion tabled by Mr Smaling which I would sign with him. That seems to me to be the first step. From there we continue. For now, I withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u280	The Van Veldhoven/Smaling amendment (Doc. 34300-XII, No 12) has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u281	I come to the amendment to item No. 10 by Mrs Dik-Faber. I reject this amendment for the reason I have already given. A motion has also been tabled on this subject. I have already said that I welcome the objective of the project. It's about trucks. In this general form, I would not support it. We stopped the subsidy for various information offices in 2012. As I already have the requested budget available on Article 18, an amendment is unnecessary and I can use the budget on Article 18 to see if I can do something in the context of the MIRT study. I just said that in the debate on the motion. I therefore advise against this amendment. I come to Mrs Dik-Faber's amendment on speed bike routes (34300-A, No 11). I would advise against this amendment. I stress the importance of cycling. In the context of Tour de Force I am working on this and the Cyclists Association can bring in its ideas for stimulating bicycle use. The construction of fast bike routes is already supported by me by contributions to the programme Better Benutten. In reply to Mr Hoogland's question, I said earlier that I will report to the next MIRT in spring on the package of measures for Better Benutten, including cycling measures. The Christian Union is asking me to shift resources from our parts to fast bicycle routes. In other choices, I have already said that I do not make that slide between the modalities. I keep the distribution as it is in the 2016 budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u282	A motion of the two coalition parties on this same bicycle network was discussed earlier. That motion says we're going to give an impulse to that network. The Minister left the ruling on that motion to the Chamber. I think that is quite right and I support her, but of course I cannot do that without an extra budget. The Minister actually says that she is okay with it and that she is leaving the opinion on this motion to the Chamber, but where is she going to get the money from? This amendment regulates the money. I would like to think about a different coverage, but whether it comes from length or width, there will still have to be extra money if we want to give an impetus to the network.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u283	As far as I am concerned, this can also happen within Better Benutten. Within the programmes of Better Benutten that have not yet been completed, there is also room for this kind of thing. This means that we have to ask for this and that we have to organise it with the municipalities and regions that play a role. It may also include existing budgets. Within your budgets, you can shift your focus to the use of the bike. However, Mrs Dik-Faber is taking the money away from somewhere where we find it undesirable. That is why we do not recommend this amendment. I'm getting all kinds of advice, but I don't know which amendments they're dealing with. So I'm looking at my officials, but I see they're talking. So I'm gonna keep going. I come to Mrs Dik-Faber's amendment on rail (34300-A, No. 9). I would advise against this amendment. The Christian Union is asking me to put more resources on track. Other parties are asking me to put more resources into roads, as I have just said. I believe that the package that has now been adopted is balanced. I also meet the commitments we have made within the coalition on this issue. That is all I really want to say at the moment. The following amendment is also by Mrs Dik-Faber (34300-XII, No. 11). It concerns the coverage of the start-up costs of a test plant for the sorting of textile fibres. I would advise against this amendment. The State has several schemes for innovative enterprises which this initiator can use if he meets the criteria set. The Rijksdienst voor Ondernemend Nederland offers an overview of these schemes. I come to Mrs Dik-Faber's amendment on socially responsible purchases (34300-A, No. 10). I would advise against this amendment. I would like to talk to the Chamber about a plan of approach for socially responsible purchasing. That is a joint plan of five departments. The activities in the plan are covered within the budget of the departments concerned. As a result, the proposed amendment is not necessary. Mrs Dik-Faber has asked about the budgets for sustainable procurement over the past three years. I will look into that, and I will answer the question of how it is done.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u284	Can I assume that this has also discouraged the coverage of the same amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u285	Yes, that is the amendment with No 34000-XII, No. 9. I'm assuming that this will go in one go, but it's a good thing you're asking, Mr. President. I come to the Van Tongeren amendment (34000-XII, No. 6). That calls for a subsidy for The New Driving. I would advise against this amendment. The Nieuwe Rijden leads to considerable fuel savings, is safer, is mandatory part of driving exams, is a fixed module with truck drivers etc. We agreed in the SER agreement that market players will define the next step for The New Driving. It also makes sense because Het Nieuwe Rijden directly leads to fuel savings and thus provides the car user with money. I do not recommend the amendment in view of the commitment already made by the government and the commitments made in the SER agreement. I come to the Houwers amendment (34000-A, No. 14), which regulates the allocation of ERTMS budget to regional lines. I would advise against this amendment. It sounds repeating, because I've been avoiding them all so far. Mr Houwers argued that ERTMS could be timed and wanted to free up its budget for regional projects. It is a priority of this cabinet and a European priority. ERTMS is important for realising the ambitions of the Long Term Track Agenda. That is why it has been explicitly excluded from the review. This amendment would reduce the budget for the ERTMS programme. This puts the long-term rail agenda targets at risk, which is undesirable. That is why I do not recommend the amendment. There's one more motion I'd like to come back to. I seem to have dissuaded them when I didn't mean to. It concerns the motion by Mr Dik-Faber in part No. 44, which is about.It's a bit technical.It's financial support in 2016, 2017 and 2018 of the project Each fourth truck synchromodal. I see the motion as supporting policy because it seeks to bring the goods from road to water. I will not do it in the form of a general subsidy, as I have already said, but in the form of a connection with the MIRT investigation and through the Inland Navigation Information Office. I was more negative to Mrs. Dik-Faber than I should have been. This brings me to the end of the debate on all the motions, amendments and questions. I would like to thank the Chamber very much for its input. It's late. The final parts are therefore a little more boring than the debate itself, but I hope for a successful outcome of the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-29-tweedekamer-12.u286	Thank you very much. I think it is appropriate to give a compliment on behalf of the entire Chamber for having dealt with the whole package in such a short time. I thank all my colleagues for their attention and input. The votes on the motions will be next week and the votes on the budget and the amendments will take place in December.
