ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-11.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Health, Welfare and Sport, as well as all the other people present in the Chamber. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-11.u2	Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about caring for seriously ill children. That's something you hope won't happen to anyone, a seriously ill child. All the more important is that we do everything we can to ensure that the care there is is excellent and well-connected. This is what my colleague Nine Kooiman said during the debate on 2 April. Excellent, this care is not taken care of. In fact, three different funding systems are now operating. According to the Secretary of State, you have to look through it and offer customization. How is it possible that customization is offered if there are three different systems, three different money jars, three different counters and three different languages? That's why I'm filing a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that care for seriously ill children is fragmented under three different forms of funding;]] [[noting that these three different forms of funding lead to a great deal of bureaucracy, uncertainty and inadequate tailor-made work for seriously ill children;]] [[considers it undesirable to drag children seriously ill under three different laws, three different funding schemes and three different points of contact;]] [[calls on the Government to include all forms of care for children aged between 0 and 18 who have a medical basis in the Long-Term Care Act,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Leijten and Mr Kooiman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29247-203]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-11.u3	The Secretary of State said in the debate that he is taking the side of parents when it comes to the best care for the children who are seriously ill. Meanwhile, he looks away from the fact that the health insurance companies apply far too low rates in purchasing this care. They keep their hand on the cut and that's inexplicable. A price discussion about the child's back is not only undesirable, but simply unacceptable. That's why I'm filing a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that health insurers do not apply a discount on the budget for intensive child care,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Leijten and Mr Kooiman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29247-204]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-11.u4	Mr. Chairman. When I think back to the AO we had together, I also think about the discussion on the adequacy of tariffs. The Secretary of State said that people who consider that the rate is not sufficient can contact their health insurance provider and then the SKGZ (Stichting Complaints and Disputes Zorgverzekeringsverzekering). He also said he's talking to health insurance companies. My group believes that there should still be a kind of third way between these two. I have a motion on this which will shortly be tabled by the D66 Group, because I think it is very important that this discussion should now end. There are stories from the different laws of people who say that they really get a discount on tariffs, that they just aren't enough. We would like to see an end to this debate and uncertainty. Mrs Bergkamp will say all of this in a moment. I would like to make a motion myself on palliative care for children. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is a discussion on the financing of palliative care for seriously ill children, including on the financing of transport and residence within the Zvw;]] [[noting that the 2016 funding provided for structural agreements on financing;]] [[Whereas palliative care is of great importance to children with a life-threatening or life-threatening illness and to the family;]] [[Whereas children's hospices and, in particular, those in need of care and their families should not be affected by uncertainty surrounding funding during this transitional year;]] [[Calls on the Government to clarify the financing for this transitional year and the performance arrangements 2016 by June at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Bergkamp and Mr Otwin van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29247-205]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-11.u5	Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. As Mrs Dik-Faber said, there is some discussion about what is now adequate. That is why I am tabling a motion, partly on behalf of Mrs Dik-Faber of the Christian Union and Mr Van der Staaij of the SGP. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that after amendment Bergkamp c.s. (33741, No. 93) has not yet become clear when a personalised budget is sufficient to purchase the customer's desired care and support;]] [[considers that this should be clarified for all concerned;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with Per Recht, VNG and the NZa, to develop quantitatively and qualitatively when a pgb is sufficient in the Zvw, Wmo, Wlz and Youth Act and to inform the Chamber by 1 September 2015,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bergkamp, Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29247-206]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-11.u6	There was also a second discussion in the fine general discussion we had, namely on the role of the care coordinator and the involvement of parents. I think that we have reached a good compromise with this motion in order, on the one hand, to give some protection to the parents who are concerned about extra rules, but on the other hand to give the care coordinator the opportunity to play his important role. I shall read out the motion, which I will also table with Mr Otwin van Dijk. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a care coordinator is always assigned to the family under the Medical Child Care System;]] [[considers that the care coordinator can be of added value to ensure that the child is properly cared for and support the family;]] [[believes that there is "fear" among some parents that this will result in an additional window, additional accountability and/or loss of control over the family;]] [[calls on the government to use the following principles in the format and content of the care coordinator:]] [[the care coordinator should contribute concretely to responsible, safe and qualitative care;]] [[This "instrument" should not result in additional or unnecessary bureaucracy or regulatory pressure on parents looking at the care chain, or loss of their own direction over the family;]] [[in practical terms, the care coordinator will make active use of the existing knowledge and skills of parents;]] [[invites the government to include these principles in the evaluation of the care coordinator, to include parents and/or parent organisations in the evaluation, and to inform the Chamber about this one year after implementation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bergkamp and Mr Otwin van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29247-207]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-11.u7	No, Mr. Chairman. I have one more question about the previous motion. I had to let her work on me after she was read. If it's up to Mrs Bergkamp, we get a definition of the adequacy of the pgb. I think that would be very useful. Does she agree with the SP that until the time when there are health insurance companies, they simply should not apply a discount on last year's budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-11.u8	The aim of the motion is to clarify the amendment we tabled on adequacy, which has also been adopted. Another discussion is, of course, the question of whether there is sufficient budget available. I think the SP is getting ahead of that. We have agreed that the health insurance companies are in the lead to organise this system in a good way. We have not yet received any objective information from the Secretary of State showing that this is going to go wrong. If that is the case, the SP has us at her side to have a discussion on it. At the moment, however, we do not have any factual information from the Ministry showing that there is something really going on there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-11.u9	So about the notifications of budget cuts for Intensive Child Care that we just get, implemented by the insurers, D66 says: okay, let it go?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-11.u10	I'm not saying that. I have said that the SP makes a nice turn of events there that we want objective information from the Ministry on this matter. We also receive emails, also from people who are very satisfied. Should the Ministry, on the basis of the motion of the SP, indicate that alarm bells should go off, we will of course look at them as D66. However, I would first like to look at the objective information on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-11.u11	This has put an end to the Chamber's term of office. We wait until the Secretary of State has the texts of all motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-11.u12	I give the floor to the Secretary of State for his response to the motions tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-11.u13	Mr. Chairman. In the motion in part No. 203 is asked to accommodate all forms of care for children between 0 and 18 years of age in the Long-Term Care Act. I note that we have had a lot of debates on this, in particular on what children with, for example, a medical care question are eligible for. In some respects, we agreed at the eleventh hour on the question of what legislation it could take place under, by the way, in consultation with the parents and the sector itself. For that reason, I advise against this motion. In the motion in part No. 204 is requested not to apply a discount to the Intensive Child Care budget. I think that is very general. Insurers have a duty of care which requires them to ensure that good care is provided. That does not mean that there could never be discounts. We have asked insurers to provide customised services where necessary, including for children with Intensive Child Care. I have not received any signals so far that they do not intend to do so, which does not mean that there is never a discount. I will, of course, keep a close eye on that. Here too, there is a duty of care, in addition to the remedies and remedies provided for in the law. That's why I'm dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-11.u14	I really don't think I can explain this. The Secretary of State sits around the table about every week with the health insurance companies about everything. Now there is a, fortunately small, group of children and parents who need Intensive Child Care. Surely it is best for them to agree with the men's health insurance companies that they should not be cut down on them? Those parents take care of them 24 hours a day and 7 days a week. They have a lot of other troubles about that. Do they really have to go to all kinds of appeal committees? You can say, "Dear health insurance, I know you have to do it with less money, but don't touch this group." Why can't the Secretary of State make that call?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-11.u15	I am already and will remain in consultation with the health insurance companies, in order to ensure, especially for this group of parents with an Intensive Child Care system, that the best possible tailor-made work can be done and that it is not automatically reduced. The insurers have indicated that they will. I also note that there are provisions for discussing matters with each other. That does not mean that there will never be a discount, but there is great attention for this group of children. That is why I have asked for the attention of health insurers for this group and I will continue to do so. I'll keep an eye on that, too. So far, I have not had any signs that this is not happening properly. Again, this does not mean that there will never be a discount; we will always have such a discount within that whole law. However, there is greater attention from health insurers to this group of parents with children and this attention will have to remain there. I am also in favour of this, so I will continue to bring this to the attention of the health insurance companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-11.u16	With this explanation, the Secretary of State can also simply say that this motion supports the policy. It is about the generic discount. The Secretary of State knows very well how it works. The people in the neighborhood nursing get them, too. In fact, we need to cut an X figure and, in any case, we are going through it, on all the indications that there are. We don't want that. If less care is needed, we are all cheering. Then we say: of course there is a discount on the budget. But then it is justified in substance; it does not come from austerity policy. What I want to hear from the Secretary of State is: yes, I'm making a lot of cuts in health care, but we don't have kids.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-11.u17	In the Health Insurance Act, we have dealt with the budgets for this kind of care, among other things. For this there is a macro-task, not a micro-task. We've asked for extra attention from the health insurance companies. We have told them to watch out for Intensive Child Care, to cherish it and to ensure that these parents continue to receive the tailor-made work they need. I have asked for particular attention to be paid to this in the setting of tariffs. The health insurance companies have said that they will comply with that. I'll keep an eye on them at that point. But we can't say about one part right now that we're never gonna cut that short. The possibilities are very limited; I agree with Mrs Leijten van de SP on this. However, we cannot say about one part that will never be reduced. I've asked the health insurance companies to pay attention to this, and I will continue to do so. I'll keep my eye on this. That is why I cannot support this motion in a general sense. In the third motion, in part No. 205, the Government is invited to clarify the financing for the transitional year and performance arrangements in 2016 by June at the latest. This concerns, in particular, palliative care and children's hospital services. I have tried to clarify this as much as possible in the debate. We are going to do two things: firstly, we are going to make agreements on how to declare in the short term now that these achievements are not yet there; secondly, we are going to decide how to do it in 2016. I therefore have no objection to this motion. I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. In the fourth motion, in part No. 206, the government is asked to consult with Per Balance, the VNG and the Healthcare Authority to assess when a pgb is sufficient. I think the proposers have forgotten the health insurance companies, but I'm not sure. I understand this motion, but I also try to understand the intention and also what we are working towards. In the Wmo, for example, it is arranged that we can ask the municipalities for customization, so that there is an appropriate provision. In the Health Insurance Act, we have arranged for a rate to be set so that care obligations can be met. In other laws, we have drawn up the same kind of quality standards. The question of adequacy will therefore vary for individuals. So I have some difficulty in asking a number of agencies, which are not actually about buying care but can look at it, to set a standard for what is sufficient. I think it is precisely the art of continuing to deliver tailor-made products. Both in the Health Insurance Act and in the Wmo, this is highly appropriate, for example in relation to the pgbs. To be honest, I have some difficulty asking a few parties to develop a general standard of adequacy, while I am almost certain that in practice it will not fit well with what individuals want.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-11.u18	The parties are struggling with the question of what is "sufficient." I notice that in municipalities. Everyone's dealing with it in a different way. However, we have legally agreed that the personal budget should be sufficient. I think it is very useful to look with a number of parties, such as Per Balance, the VNG and the NZa, at what is a good definition or to make some kind of manual for it, because the parties are struggling with this concept. If the Secretary of State says that he also wants to invite the health insurance companies, that is fine with me, of course, but at least these three parties are important. I think it's very good to see what happens to that pgb from a distance. There are different definitions and impressions. That's the background to this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-11.u19	The tariffs have been introduced, the laws come into force. This means that both insurers and municipalities have a duty of care, and therefore have to provide appropriate provisions, with all the adequacy requirements laid down in the law. I am quite prepared, after some time and in consultation with these parties, to look at how this is going in practice, what we are learning from it and what it all means. However, I would like to make sure that this does not lead to a kind of standard that should apply to everyone. That's not good. It would also be contrary to the intent of the law. If I may read the motion in such a way that I am going to look with these parties at how things are going in practice and what bottlenecks and solutions can exist, I would like to do so, but I would like to say that this will not, as far as I am concerned, lead to a fixed standard. That would be a violation of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-11.u20	We're not talking about a fixed standard. We support the form chosen, namely tailor-made work on an individual level. Municipalities and health insurers are free to do so. However, we are interested in how the legal provision on adequacy is working in practice. With the explanation I'm giving and the Secretary of State, I think we should be able to find each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-11.u21	If we use this explanation, I will leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. In the fifth motion, in part No. 207, a number of requirements, or perhaps non-requirements, are imposed on care coordination. Can I understand the motion in such a way that the proposers say that it is a good thing that a care coordinator is assigned, but that this care coordinator should not sit on the parent's seat in such a way as to determine, as it were, what is good for them? That's what he'd do if he missed his goal. We are asked to include these principles in the evaluation, in consultation with parents and parents' organisations, and to inform the Chamber after one year. I believe I can see from the body language that this is the intention of the motion. If I may direct this motion in this way, I'll leave it to the Chamber to decide.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-11.u22	This motion is intended as the Secretary of State interprets it. We do not doubt the usefulness of the care coordinator. I must say that, as a result of the general consultation, I have received more information from people about its value. However, we do not want this to lead to some sort of bureaucratic system for parents, with unnecessary rules. I think that this motion strikes a kind of balance between what may be necessary and what is unnecessary. We think that this should be a good way of getting out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-11.u23	Perhaps for the sake of understanding: sometimes the contribution of the care coordinator is useful to protect parents from overload. That also seems to me to be a useful function. You may sometimes go against the views of the parents, but it is good if, as it were, a professional judgement is made.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-11.u24	I'll share that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-11.u25	I may have gotten out of my chair a little late, but I still have a question about the fourth motion. My question has to do with the interrupting debate with Mrs Bergkamp. If I have understood correctly, the Secretary of State said that the present operative part could not really be done, because it would impose a financial standard that would be too uniform in quantitative and qualitative terms, which would ignore the requirement of customisation. The Secretary of State interprets the motion in such a way that, if adopted, he sends an inventory of bottlenecks to the Chamber. Is that how you want me to interpret it? That is a very broad interpretation. Soon we will adopt this motion and we will have to come back to it later, because it is said that the Secretary of State would make a quantitative and qualitative inventory of what the norm should be. I wouldn't want to go through that. That way, we'd really be spinning in circles.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-11.u26	Mr Rutte interprets me well. I also understand from the author that it is not the intention to develop a standard. This would also be contrary to what is in the law. However, it is intended to find out how the concept of adequacy takes place in practice. We could then conclude on that basis whether that provision actually works in the law and whether it should lead to adjustments. It must be clear that this does not lead to a fixed standard, which would again be contrary to the requirement of customization laid down in various laws.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-11.u27	So just an inventory of what it's like now, including any bottlenecks; that's all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-11.u28	Mr President, I find it strange what is happening here, and also that you allow a motion to be interpreted in such a way that it is about a standard, whereas nowhere in that motion is the word "standard." If it is possible to work out quantitatively and qualitatively when a pgb is sufficient, the Secretary of State simply complies with an amendment adopted and thus with the law. He just said he wants to do that. That's more than just an inventory. If he doesn't make it past inventory, we'll find out. I know this is not my motion, but I think it's really crazy how a operative is changed here on the basis of a suggestion, when that word isn't even in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-11.u29	Perhaps it is a good thing that I gave my opinion at least in my interpretation and that I found that the authors share that view. This should not therefore lead to a standard, but we must consider what is happening in practice, which will give us more insight into the implementation of the legal criterion "adequacy'. That seems to me to be a good thing. I believe that the authors have confirmed that this must be the interpretation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-11.u30	I am also a little surprised by this little interruption debate with the VVD about this. I share Mrs Leijten's point. There's no "standard" in the motion, and that's not the way it's meant to be. I think we have interpreted the motion as it is intended. I think we just got out, too. It's not a bottlenecks analysis; the motion is more than that. I think the motion is meant like the explanation we gave earlier. It's not just a problem analysis.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-11.u31	I might try a little too much to bring the parties together. In this way, as Mr Rutte said, if we gain more insight into the concept of adequacy in practice, we can learn from it and possibly take action if we had a different view. So we can see what happens in practice with the criterion of adequacy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-11.u32	The vote on the motions tabled will take place next Tuesday.
