ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. I have four points I would like to make. Let me start with a procedural point that's kind of in my throat. Last week we were also here and it was also covered by the Re-use of Public Sector Information Act: the Minister is in the process of highlighting a number of elements of the Open Government Initiative Act, which Mrs Voortman is working so hard on. In the Re-use of Public Sector Information Act there was still something to be said for the implementation period that applies from the Union, but in this legislative proposal on the penalty payment, that understanding is much less with my group. It is good practice in this Parliament that the government is reluctant to take initiative laws and at least does not cross them. But that's exactly what's happening here. I must quote former Prime Minister Balkenende in this regard. He said that the essence of an own-initiative proposal is that first the Chamber is called upon and that the role of the cabinet is reserved. That's what he said in 2007. Does the Minister agree? Can he explain the relationship between the government and the Chamber in this respect? Why didn't the Minister first try to speed up the progress of the Open Government Act, the Woo, in consultation with the initiators? Isn't that the royal, courteous, parliamentary and chic road? I told you, this is a bone in our throats. My group is not taking this lightly. My second point concerns content. As messy as the trial goes, so messy is the content of the law. There is a lack of coherence. You cannot simply abolish the penalty payment scheme for the WOB without changing the context. Then you solve a problem with the government possibly superficially, but in reality you only create new problems again. I'll give you two. Firstly, the position of citizens vis-à-vis the government will deteriorate if there is no more good and simple means of enforcing rights. This is an obstacle to the citizens, but of course it is also an obstacle to journalism, which seeks to find out the truth. That's her job, too. Secondly, I would say: listen carefully to the ordinary Dutch. They are stuck in reluctant governments, which make abundant use of black tips, Tipp-Ex and improper exceptions and rejections. This is ultimately at the expense of public confidence in the government, and that is precisely a responsibility for which this minister has also been hired. My group would like to see a modernisation of the existing Public Administration Act. Of course, we would prefer to see this happen with Mrs Voortman's own-initiative proposal, to which my group has also contributed. You need to look at things in context. There's got to be a register. Public sector organisations should ensure that they disclose their information at the front. That leads to a culture change and you have to take the time. That's a system approach and not picking one thing out. The third point concerns costs. In the context of access to information, my group asked for the registry rights in the written round. A new means of enforcing a decision is the direct appeal to the administrative judge. For that, if it is up to the government, registry fees must be paid, which are high: about €167 at a time. I would just like to repeat it to the Labour Party, because its spokesman will of course say the same: there are plenty of people who cannot raise or prefinance this amount. Even if they get it back later, this is a bit weird mechanism. We have asked about this in the correspondence. In response to the questions whether you could postpone those costs or, if better for the courts, compensate in advance, came only as an answer that it does not fit into the system. If the citizen is benevolent, he can be compensated afterwards. Period. My group does not think that is an answer. The Minister thus opens up the right to information only to those who can take the risk of losing the registry rights and those who can advance them. The conclusion of this third point is that a new high financial barrier is actually being created for the right to information that every citizen, every journalist in this country has. My group cannot cooperate in raising this threshold. My fourth and final point is actually the most important. You always have to ask yourself, in every legislative proposal, what is the problem to be solved with it? If the Lower House doesn't ask that question, the Upper House will. Yes, Mr. Chairman, I see you're completely... no, of course I can't say that. Let me start again: what problem should this be solved? Then, in correspondence, the Minister refers to three investigations: an investigation by Research for Policy into the extensive and improper WOB requests, the Monitor Law penalty payment and the evaluation of three acceleration instruments from the AWB. This should make it clear that the problem is enormous. I quote from one of the reports: "The questioning of the extent to which improper requests occur is difficult. Indeed, there may be a large difference between administrative bodies in the perception of what is or is not wrong." Thus, the fact is that all these studies are based on perception, opinion and surveys rather than counting and polling. Where's the problem? Where are the numbers? This is nowhere to be found in the report. The report only creates a huge problem on the basis of perceptions, ideas and suggestions. If you look through it, you can see that there's actually no problem at all. Where there is a problem, perhaps Mr Van Raak will say something about it, because I am not talking about my own municipality of Dordrecht, you will see that it has been solved very well. So my main conclusion is that there's no problem. This is a limited legislative proposal, which we cannot deal with separately because you need to see it in a whole context. Moreover, a financial threshold restricts public access to management.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-3.u3	I have a question for Mr Schouw. If there is no problem with the Penalty and Appeal Act when not deciding in time, why was it explicitly chosen to separate the Open Government Act from that Penalty Act? The explanatory statement does say something about abuse.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-3.u4	Yeah, there's abuse; we know that. But we do not know the nature and extent of that. Like I said, it's all about perception. I want to see the first evidence, based on count and stairs, that we've quantified the abuse. The preparation of this debate will also have significance for Mrs Voortman's and me's legislative proposals. So that's what we have to look at very closely together. If we go this way, I see Mrs. Fokke nodding, we're going the wrong way. We are about to hear it from the Minister, but my proposal would be to suspend after the first period and to speed up the process of the Open Government Act in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-3.u5	Mr. Chairman. It is a special figure that we are talking about today's cabinet bill. Last week, when the Re-use of Public Sector Information Act was discussed, it was rightly noted that the Penalty Law, like the Re-use Act, is part of the Open Government Act, i.e. the Initiative Act of Mr Schouw and myself. In the written round, the Minister was asked what made his own amendment to the WOB so urgent that it could not wait until after the examination of the Parliament's own initiative law, as in the traffic between Chamber and government is deemed to be decent. The Minister cannot give a clear answer to that. He insists that tackling abuse of the WOB is so urgent that a few weeks' delay justifies passing the initiative from the Chamber. To underline this, the Minister is scattering figures of what it would achieve in terms of savings. Between 8 million and 14 million, he says. However, this concerns all periodic penalty payments, including the many periodic penalty payments granted because administrative bodies do not overcome WOB requests. But in many cases, the problem is not that a penalty payment should be paid for it. The problem is that governments react so late, sometimes out of unwillingness, and sometimes out of inability because they do not fulfil their legal obligation to archive. This problem must therefore be tackled first. Concrete figures on how many cases of abuse are actually involved are not known, as the Minister admits. So this proposal does not solve an urgent problem. It seems to me that the cabinet is not waiting for more transparency in the public administration, because despite all the fine words of the minister, he is merely trying to take away the tools of WOB applicants, rather than strengthening the position of citizens who are asking for information. By submitting his own separate bill, the Minister breaks the carefully constructed balance between tackling abuse and strengthening the position of real WOB applicants. In doing so, the cabinet seems to side with the old administrative regents, who are not waiting for more transparency obligations for the public administration. Those are drivers who think citizens are asking for information, but they find it difficult. GroenLinks regrets that. Why this choice? Why does the Minister not opt for the harmony and balance sheet of the Open Government Act, which we, as proposers, have discussed extensively with him? Why do WOB applicants take away a means of coercion without simultaneously strengthening their position in other ways? I would like to receive a response to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-3.u6	Mr. Chairman. When I get answers from the Minister to my written questions, I often think: if only I had made a WOB request. Because the constitutional duty of the government to inform Members of Parliament often runs counter to the right of every citizen to request information. Researchers, journalists and other citizens receive a lot of information through requests, solving many problems and addressing abuses. The citizens are not there for the government, the government is there for the citizens. Information doesn't belong to the government. It belongs to all of us. That information must be easily accessible. Requests for information must be dealt with quickly and effectively. In order to promote that, we have introduced the penalty payment. If administrative bodies do not provide information within a reasonable period of time, they will be fined. The Netherlands would, of course, not be the Netherlands again if there were no people taking advantage of it. Like the dubious cottage milker Mustafa Karasahin, who for many years used the municipality of Dordrecht as a milk cow and made hundreds of impossible requests per month, which the pawnshop boss delivered many tons and cost the municipality many tons. Now the Minister says that for around EUR 8 to 14 million a year the WOB is being abused. At the same time, the Minister cannot indicate how many abusers there are. How many people are we talking about? Are there hundreds of them, are there dozens? I believe that every party in this Chamber wants to prevent abuse, but also that no party unnecessarily wants to complicate the work of researchers and journalists. The Minister wants to abolish the periodic penalty payments, but with this a stick disappears to encourage administrative bodies to provide the information in time. Often these WOB requests are of course politically sensitive. It's often about problems and abuses. Especially when it comes to requests from journalists, it will often occur that administrative bodies and government organisations prefer not to deliver, rather deliver, perhaps not deliver completely, or rather deliver only when the storm has fallen a little bit and citizens' attention has passed a little. In the opinion of the SP, abolishing the penalty payment gives governments and government organisations too many opportunities to keep displeasure information under their hats for too long. I believe that abuse of WOB requests can best be addressed by making WOB requests redundant, by making information public as much as possible, for example by making it available online and by making it searchable digitally. In other European countries this is often much better organised than here. Can the Minister tell us how he's going to promote that? An important reason why administrative bodies do not provide information on time is simply because they do not have the internal archiving in order. I find it very remarkable that some governments sometimes need so much time to provide very simple information. With the bill, the Minister does not tackle the abuse but the use of the WOB. The abolition of the penalty payment affects not only those who want to abuse but all citizens who want to get information. We're dealing with a specific problem, with a relatively small group of people taking advantage. The Minister wants to solve this with a general, generic measure that also affects all other people, researchers and journalists. The Minister's proposal is also somewhat naive. If a public organisation says that it cannot comply with an application within a reasonable period of time, the administrative body must consult the applicant on what is a reasonable period of time. If a journalist wants information about fraud, then he must discuss with the relevant organisation what is a reasonable period of time. In doing so, he must indicate what his intentions are and why he should be given that information. I think there may be a lot of reasons for a government organization not to put it on top of the pile. If they do not come out among themselves, the applicant can still go to court, but that costs money, nowadays a lot of money. The court may also order that the Registry fees and the costs of the proceedings are not reimbursed. This law thus creates barriers for researchers, journalists and citizens, and allows public authorities not to provide information within a reasonable period of time. That's not because the WOB doesn't work well, it works fine, but because some people take advantage. Therefore, the SP cannot agree to this law in this form. We need to find a better way to deal with abuse, take on people who commit abuse. I would like to see the Minister explore the possibilities for this, for example, to abolish the penalty payment specifically for those who commit abuse. Mr Schouw mentioned that an abuser from Dordrecht had been dealt with through the courts, but that was not entirely watertight. Isn't there any way to improve that? Can't we give the judge more opportunities to deal with abusers as individuals? I can also imagine that an administrative body which receives a request which it can never reasonably comply with within the time limit will submit it to the court. That way the fine can disappear. What measures specifically aimed at abusers has the Minister himself considered during this legislative process? What were the reasons for opting for a general measure? The SP wants to tackle abuse of the WOB as quickly as possible, but not at the expense of good citizens and journalists and researchers who simply want to do their job. I therefore ask the Minister to come up with an alternative, specifically aimed at abusers. I would also ask the Minister to do this in conjunction with Mrs Voortman's and Mr Schouw's own-initiative proposal on the open government. That proposal is already in the Lower House. I think it would be much better to settle that in one big law and the Open Government Act would be very good for that. Mrs Keijzer has come up with an alternative on my behalf and on behalf of a number of others. I can see that Mrs Fokke has also come up with an alternative. I think it is right for the Minister to state in his response how we can deal with abuse while maintaining the right to obtain information.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-3.u7	Mr. Chairman. This debate is going on for 20 minutes and I think the most important point has been made. The most important question before us is: what is the problem that needs to be addressed with this legislative amendment? I have very little idea how big that problem is. What's the matter with you anyway? This change in the law means that the position of citizens is getting worse. The right to information, the cornerstone of democracy, is being undermined and a threshold is being created to make use of that law. What's the problem? Is that the government or are those the citizens? We don't really know much about the abuse. In the explanatory memorandum we read that a large number of WOB requests are received by fax or e-mail from the same administrative body. I have just conducted a small survey in this Chamber, but only a few have seen a fax machine in the last 15 years. I did not ask Mr Van Raak to do that, but he is now shaking no. There is still a fax machine in the Chamber building, as it turns out, but I do not know if anything will ever come out of it. Most people haven't seen a fax machine in the last 15 years, although I understand that the fax machines are mooing with false WOB requests. Wouldn't the information contained in the explanatory memorandum be a little out of date? I've read it harder. We can establish that everyone is a victim. There are a few abusers, but the position of all citizens is now weakened. Why don't we look at some incremental and practical improvements of the WOB? Why not have a second term or a slightly longer term? Why not set up a register for abusers? After all, the Ministry of the Interior is the coordinating department. If the same people always come up with false requests from different municipalities, whether by fax or not, it must be coordinated in such a way that we know this. Make sure the archiving gets better. Why isn't work on such incremental improvements? There is a nice amendment by Mrs Keijzer. I'm very curious to know what the Minister says about that. In my view, it affects the change in the law quite a bit. You could even say it's destructive. I am very curious to know what the Minister thinks of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-3.u8	Mr. Chairman. Public disclosure of public sector information is a prerequisite for a well-functioning rule of law. That's why we've had the Public Administration Act for 35 years, the WOB. The disclosure of information from the government is a great asset, but in practice the WOB does not always function well. If the authorities do not provide the requested information or do not deliver it in time, the applicant shall be entitled to a penalty payment. This can give an applicant €1,260 if, for example, the administrative board does not provide its information on time. The introduction of the penalty payment in 2009 seemed like a nice stick behind the door to encourage the government to do its job in time. In practice, however, it appears that this stick is being abused. In recent years, it has become increasingly clear that the WOB makes applications which have nothing to do with the right to public sector information. However, they have everything to do with wanting to earn over taxpayers' backs from a government agency that does not provide information in time. That's not using it. It's taking advantage of the WOB.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-3.u9	At the heart of this debate is the question: what is the problem? I hear the spokesperson of the VVD saying that there is massive abuse of the penalty clause. That's the problem we need to solve. I have mentioned, like the Minister, a number of reports, but it is not in them. What information does Mr Veldman have on the massive abuse of the penalty payment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-3.u10	I have just listened carefully to Mr Schouw's contribution and I am surprised where D66 stands. I recall that the motion tabled last year by Mrs Fokke and my colleague, Mr Taverne, was supported by D66. In this motion, the Minister was called upon to deal with the abuse. At that time, Mr Schouw apparently felt that there was abuse. Now I hear him saying he doesn't see this. At the same time, I see that he has included in the initiative proposal he has submitted together with Mrs Voortman the abolition of the penalty payment in the disclosure of information. Is it one or the other now? I do not quite follow Mr Schouw.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-3.u11	This is not entirely an answer to my question, but that's okay. It's a second question I'd like to answer. There were suspicions. That's what all the good reports show. At a time like this, you assume that the Minister is looking very closely at the nature and extent of the problem. That didn't happen. I hope and expect the VVD spokesperson to be so fair to acknowledge that. After all, the Minister himself writes that he does not know the nature and extent of the problem. The abolition of the penalty payment is contained in our initiative proposal, because it is embedded in a much wider context of, among other things, an information register. You can't just take out the kitchen door without looking at the whole house. I repeat my question: what quantitative data does the VVD group have to show the nature and extent of the misuse of the penalty payment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-3.u12	I think Mr Schouw also knows that it is not always possible to establish one-on-one when it is abuse. There are requests that you can assume on the scale that there is abuse, but which can also simply be a very large demand. If the question "can you indicate how many zebra paths have joined or disappeared in our congregation in recent years?" in 393 municipalities, you may have the suspicion that there is abuse. There could be a serious research question in that; that could just happen. The assumptions shall be made on the basis of the register kept by the VNG, the reporting point set up by it for suspicions of abuse. There are examples which Mr Schouw will also say are genuine abuses. You might want to quantify that. That is what the Minister has done, where there is a suspicion that there are abuses in 20% to 25% of the cases, of improper requests. The cost of handling them amounts to EUR 14 million. So every year we spend EUR 14 million of tax money that did not need to be spent. In my opinion, we must do something about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-3.u13	There are no exact data. We always count and die. For example, we think it is important to count the number of burglaries and robberies, but in this case the lower abdomen of the VVD seems to prevail. I'm not okay with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-3.u14	Mr Veldman claims that the amount of 14 million is evidence of abuse, but that amount includes all the periodic penalty payments that have been granted. A penalty payment is also provided if the government defaults, for example because it does not want to provide information, or cannot provide information in time because it does not have its archives in order. What does Mr Veldman base on the fact that this amount would be entirely the result of abuse?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-3.u15	I agree with Mrs Voortman that there is also a task for the government itself, namely to ensure that files and archives are in order. I will go into this in more detail immediately. However, we can see with each other that requests are being made which have nothing to do with the disclosure of information. That is what we can do. Surely it should not be the case that improper requests are rewarded with taxpayers' money? Improper requests should not be rewarded with a penalty payment of €1,260, while the sole purpose of the applicant is to collect money? That's not supposed to happen, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-3.u16	I fully agree that this cannot be the intention. However, this legislative proposal is all about the same thing. That's the problem. If we say that we want to tackle the abuse, we must tackle the real abusers. This can already be done through the courts, as Mr Van Raak has said very well. The University of Groningen has done extensive research into the abuse of the WOB. This shows that the number of periodic penalty payments granted is not so bad. I therefore ask Mr Veldman once again on what facts he bases the argument that there would be mass abuse.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-3.u17	I base myself on the information provided by the Minister. I base myself on the information on which Mrs Voortman probably based herself when submitting the initiative proposal Open Government Act, in which she, together with Mr Schouw, proposes to remove the law on periodic penalty payments and appeals. I also see Mrs Voortman making a moving move on this point. Perhaps we will get a letter of amendment before the Open Government Act is dealt with and the penalty payment will remain there. However, I note a double story with the spokesmen of GroenLinks and D66. I'm surprised.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-3.u18	Mrs. GroenLinks... excuse me, Mrs. Voortman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-3.u19	"Mrs. GroenLinks" also has something, Mr. Chairman. In our legislative proposal, there is a balanced approach. We are also doing something to make the information more transparent. I think this approach is very important. This is not the case in the present legislative proposal, and it is also claimed that there is an urgent problem. That is especially the point for me. I do not think that the claim that there would be an emergency problem is correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-3.u20	I agree with Mrs Voortman that there can be some improvement in the behaviour of the public authorities. I am referring to file-making and archival-building. However, a change in culture does not force rules. Changing a rule in the law doesn't mean that departments or town halls in the country are dealt with differently. Culture will not change as a result. That calls for something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-3.u21	I hear Mr Veldman saying that he is based on information from the Minister. This would show a huge amount of periodic penalty payments. In the note following the report, the Minister replied to a question from the CDA Group that the annual penalty payments were one to one forfeited periodic penalty payments per ministry. In my view, this means that the number of periodic penalty payments we are talking about is minimal. Mr Veldman said just now that it concerns situations where the government does not do what it has to do, namely to inform the citizen. Why doesn't the VVD stand behind that civilian?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-3.u22	Mrs Keijzer takes one thing out of the report, namely that which happens in a number of departments. However, we have twelve provinces and 393 municipalities in this country. If Mrs Keijzer were to go to the VNG, which has itself opened a hotline for municipalities to report suspected improper requests, she would come across things that she will also be alarmed about. You may ask yourself what the added value of these requests is. You can weigh all that up and you can talk about it with each other, but if you systematically see that in different forms, you may have the suspicion of abuse.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-3.u23	In the same documents, the Minister writes that according to the Monitor Act penalty payment it appears that 6% of the municipalities have paid a penalty payment. You can honestly assume that the 6% is not all cases of citizens frustrating a government. Again, why doesn't the VVD now support those citizens who are fighting against a government that is very often not very generous in providing information?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-3.u24	Anyone who makes a request for public access to a government, whatever government it is, must be helped in a good way. Where that is not going well right now, it requires, above all, a change of culture and not so much a change of rules. Let's work on that together. Let's ask the minister together what he's going to do about it, instead of just slipping rules and creating some sort of sham reality in which people get helped faster. Are these people gonna be helped faster with that penalty payment on it? I don't think that's the case. After all, I often hear Mrs Keijzer and others say that they are not satisfied with the way things are going now, while we do have a penalty payment. Apparently it doesn't work. Let us quickly remove the penalty payment if it does not work and does not actually contribute to the faster provision of information. After all, we see that it is being abused. We also see that taxpayers' money goes to people who make improper requests. We have to do that together. Let's ask this minister together what he's going to do to make sure that municipalities, provinces and departments move a little faster when there's an application.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-3.u25	In those situations, a penalty payment is a great stick behind the door for all those citizens who fight against a government that is not spouty with information. I am really sorry to note that Mr Veldman is not putting the centre of gravity there. I will quote some illustrious VVD predecessors in my term; perhaps that convinces Mr Veldman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-3.u26	I don't hear another question, but I'm going to listen to Mrs Keijzer in a moment. I'm gonna go back to the reason why I want to deal with that abuse. As I see it, 21% of the total number of WOB requests is suspected of abuse. So that cost us a decent ditch with money. The damage caused by this type of request, also in order to get it dealt with in time, amounts to about EUR 14 million. It is therefore time to put a stop to this. Everyone knows the examples: in applications hidden WOB requests, many writers sending dozens of letters a month, three to four times sent almost identical requests that turn out to be not quite the same, and extremely large but actually useless requests, which mainly take a lot of time. In short, these requests have nothing to do with an information question, but everything to do with the improper collection of that penalty payment. Last year the Labour Party and the VVD asked the Minister to put an end to this. That motion was widely supported in the Chamber. The Minister responds to that call from the bill we're discussing today. As far as I am concerned, that bill could have ended up in the Chamber a little faster. As the Minister himself points out in the bill, every week that the Law on penalty payments for the WOB enters into force earlier, saves from €150,000 to €270,000. The VVD will therefore wholeheartedly support this law, because the sooner this change of law comes into force, the better. My enthusiasm for tackling this abuse does not mean that I have no regard for those who do not agree with it and for those who say that it will be so easy for the government not to comply with a WOB request in time. I'd like to say a few things about that. I think the stick behind the door is still there. If the government fails, there is the possibility to appeal directly to the court. The administrative court may, by means of an accelerated procedure, examine whether the government has actually failed and may order that same authority to pay a higher penalty payment if it has actually failed. My mom used to tell me to force strange eyes. A conviction by the administrative judge, with the risk of a higher penalty payment than the current one, will in practice make more sense in order to comply with a WOB request in good time. Mr. Chairman. Another point that I would like to mention in connection with the timely provision of information I have already announced is the creation of files and archives. I cannot escape the impression that the timely provision of information does not always have to do with unwillingness, but often with impotence. Anyone who makes a tour of the municipal accounting offices can only conclude that file and archive formation in many municipalities is a child who is under-represented. As a historian, I know only too well that you have nothing to gain from an archive where it is reportedly everything but where you can't find anything because you don't see the forest through the trees. Those who do not have their information system in order can of course never deliver on time without art and flying. There is still much to improve here. Does the Minister share this observation? What measures does he intend to take to ensure that every government body is in order? Recently, a number of administrators of municipalities, water boards and provinces have warned about the consequences of the poor digital file and archive formation. The VVD Group has asked written questions on this, but I do not think that the answer to this question is optimistic. I therefore repeat one of the questions. What consequences does the Minister foresee for the disclosure of governance due to the poor digital file and archive formation? What steps is the Minister going to take to do something concrete about this? How does he prevent the emergence of digital dementia, as outlined by these drivers? Of course, everyone is free to submit a WOB request as they wish to submit it. Form free makes it easy to reach. However, I can imagine that we can be of assistance to the applicants with a standard form. This also makes it immediately clear to each administrative body that this is a WOB request. Is the Minister prepared to consult, inter alia, the IPO and the VNG on the development of such a form? The VVD supports this bill. Misuse of the WOB must be addressed and that is best done by removing the penalty payment from the WOB. This will prevent improper requests and thus allow for full attention to be paid to the timely provision of information on serious requests. As far as I am concerned, the organization of the information system in the various administrations is inextricably linked to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-3.u27	I was wondering if Mr Veldman had Fokke and Taverne's motion in hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-3.u28	I don't have it for me, but I'm sure you're going to read me that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-3.u29	There is a little more in that motion than Mr Veldman suggests. It seems to be a debate on suggestion; facts do not count. However, I still have a fact. What is in that motion is interesting: "considering that the penalty payment makes an effective contribution to the timely decision by administrative bodies." That's part of that motion, too. So the motion does not say: we must get rid of the penalty payment. Indeed, the motion says that "the penalty payment makes an effective contribution to the timely decision by administrative bodies." At the same time, it also states that "abuse, misuse and use should be avoided for the sole purpose of obtaining financial benefit'. The Minister is then invited to come forward with a palette of measures. Surely that is something else than Mr Veldman just suggested? Does Mr Veldman agree that it is slightly different from what he has just suggested?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-3.u30	I note from the motion that a broad majority of the Chamber wants the Minister to do something about the abuse of the WOB, which is possible because it has a penalty payment on it. Apart from all the criticism of the way in which the government deals with the disclosure of information, sometimes rightly and sometimes unjustly, I also hear in a broad sense: it is nice that you get a penalty payment, but that is not helpful; we are waiting for that information. People want information and not a penalty. If you want to tackle the abuse, you should also ask yourself whether it is better to remove the penalty payment, since in practice many people say that they are not waiting for a penalty payment but for information. That is what the Minister is proposing and that proposal will support the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-3.u31	Just so you know, that's not what the motion says. I repeat it one more time, and I hope that Mr Veldman has really put it between his ears: 'in the view that the penalty payment makes an effective contribution to the timely decision by administrative bodies'.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-3.u32	The VVD now makes the analysis that dealing with abuse is a good thing to remove the penalty payment, because the abuse takes too many forms, rising to 14 million. That is taxpayers' money that we can all use better. The VVD will therefore wholeheartedly support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-3.u33	That 14 million has not yet been substantiated by Mr Veldman. He just indicated that WOB applicants are not waiting for a penalty payment but for information. Does Mr Veldman not think that the focus should therefore be on how to help people who request information as quickly as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-3.u34	I certainly agree with Mrs Voortman. That is why I asked the Minister what he was going to do about the poor filing and archiving of municipalities, provinces and other governments, both digitally and in paper form. It often fails to do so. If one does not have one's information system in order and then gets a request to visualize something or to get something out of the table, it may indeed take weeks for all papers to be collected. We have to do something about this mess with each other. I would like to ask Mrs Voortman what he is going to do about it so that the information can be provided in good time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-3.u35	For this purpose, let proposals be made in the Own-initiative Act Act Open Government of GroenLinks and D66. Surely it would be much more logical for the Chamber to decide to deal with that bill, which is balanced, quickly than to take one bite out of it, with a lot of question marks, by the way. If Mr Veldman also thinks that it is about obtaining information and that governments have a duty to do so, should he support us in ensuring that this is done quickly in a balanced way?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-3.u36	I think I've already answered that question. The ill-ordering of files and archives in municipalities and other governments is independent of the shifting of rules. There is already an obligation for municipalities to have their archives in order. That obligation already exists. Scrolling with rules, adding and changing rules is not going to make reality any different. I want to do something about that reality. This requires a cultural change, a different way of working, a different sense of standard with regard to the way in which files and archives are handled. I ask the Minister to do something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-3.u37	I would almost ask Mr Veldman whether he also thinks that the tax agreement should go to the Chamber, but that is not the issue here today. I therefore ask him another question. Mr Veldman says that the penalty payment should be abolished, because it now costs 14 million a year, which is a waste of taxpayers' money. Has Mr Veldman made an assessment of what it would cost if all those people who are now getting a penalty were to appeal directly?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-3.u38	At the moment when people go directly to court, the judge can make an independent judgment as to whether it is an actual or improper request. That's the nice thing. Where governments do not respond in good time and have to pay a penalty payment, a judge may say: this is an improper request; thank you for coming to me, but we are not going to reward you for this. Because people can go to the administrative judge, it is fortunate that municipalities can run a step faster in the case of actual requests. Precisely because the wrong requests may not be there anymore, there will be time and space to pay more attention to all these valid, decent requests.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-3.u39	Administrative judges are always reluctant not to sit on the seat of the government body. The only thing they'll test is if there's a hidden WOB request somewhere in the pieces. Think of the discussion on the case where a footnote on page 26 asks for further documents. So what Mr Veldman says about the intention of the direct profession will not happen in practice. That is why I am asking again the question that I have just asked: how much does it cost if all these people have to appeal directly? Haven't you lost much more than the €1,260 it now costs per situation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-3.u40	Both Mrs Emperor and I cannot make that assessment, because we do not know how many people will end up in the administrative court. The two of us want governments to provide their information on time. Let us now work with each other: ensure that, if a request comes in, governments deliver within the four-week period or within the recovery period that comes after it. That's what we want with each other, isn't it? It's not about someone who doesn't get his information delivered on time getting money from the government, is it? That's not what this person's waiting for, is it? He's waiting for information. Let us now work on this with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-3.u41	In my view, there is no problem with the WOB, nor with the periodic penalty payments. Mr Schouw is, of course, quite right to say that the motion tabled by the VVD, which is the basis of this bill, states that the VVD believes that the penalty payment makes an effective contribution to the timely decision by administrative bodies. However, I hear Mr Veldman now say that he is so pleased with this bill and with the abolition of the penalty payment because it does not contribute to the timely decision by an administrative body. Can Mr Veldman explain where that turn comes from, what that turn is based on? What else does he think of the amendment tabled by Mrs Keijzer together with a number of other members of this Chamber to maintain that penalty payment for the WED requests, in line with the motion of the VVD and the PvdA, and to look for alternatives aimed more at the abusers?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-3.u42	I have just answered that first question. I have recently put my ear to various people and they say that the penalty payment may be a stick behind the door, but that there is still no information in the end. So it doesn't yield anything, except maybe that €1,260. However, a serious applicant is not waiting for that. If you want to do something about the abuse, and that is what the minister was called for in that motion, then you must dare to take the step to deal with the abuse by removing that penalty payment. My secondary question to the Minister is then: do something about the situations in which time passes are not good and files and archives are not in order. I asked written questions about this, but I found the answer to it too inadequate. That is why I repeated today: Minister, do something about it, make sure we don't get a black hole from the first fifteen years of digitalisation in this century, make sure we solve this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-3.u43	Your response to Mrs Keijzer's amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-3.u44	Mrs Keijzer's amendment aims to maintain the penalty payment. I disagree. It is also chosen to work with a mandatory standard form. I'm not for that. That raises an extra threshold. People should be free in the way in which they want information to be provided when submitting a request to the government. If this is standardized, if thresholds are set and if a form is to be used, people will not be made easier. I don't think that's a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-3.u45	What problem is the VVD solving? Is the VVD solving the problem that the penalty payment is not working properly in the WOB? Or is the VVD solving the problem that a small group of people are taking advantage of the penalty payment in the WOB? That is quite important for the solution. If the VVD says "the WOB doesn't work because there's a penalty payment in it, it doesn't make sense and it makes sure that the WOB doesn't work properly," I disagree with that, but then I can imagine that the VVD supports the Minister's proposal. However, if the VVD says "there is a small group of people who abuse the penalty payment in the WOB," then the VVD Group must come up with a proposal to tackle that group of abusers. There is, of course, no reason to address citizens, journalists or researchers who want to exercise their democratic rights or do their job.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-3.u46	That's another question, with the same content. So I'm going to repeat what I just said. The VVD wants the abuse that is now under way to be dealt with. A solution to that is to remove the penalty payment. Is that bad? I think that's okay because in practice it turns out that people who submit serious requests and do not get their information on time have not been helped with that penalty payment. After all, they still do not have that information. That's what they say. There are still governments that are reacting too late. There are even journalists who say: such a municipality pays the penalty. Then what's in it for us? Then it's not gonna do us any good, is it? Then you have to dare take the step to say: in tackling the abuse we take the penalty off. At the same time, I ask the Minister to do something about training or the slow delivery of information.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-3.u47	I note that we have a problem with a number of people. How big that group is, I don't know. That's what the Minister's gonna say later. I think it's a couple of dozens. They cost the municipality a lot of effort and money. I also note that the Minister and the VVD have come up with a solution to restrict access to the WOB for everyone. I don't see how that's proportional. I don't think that's proportionate. I also note that the VVD now feels very differently about that fine than it did when it tabled the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-3.u48	I note that Mr Van Raak is now making a great deal of progress in drawing conclusions. This bill does not restrict access to information, to public sector information. That process still works the same way. If you want something, you make a request, as far as I'm concerned, form-free. When it comes to information that can become public, the government has time to deliver. Nothing's gonna change that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-3.u49	Mrs Keijzer made an important contribution to this debate through her amendment. I understand that the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats says that we do not feel much in favour of this amendment, but we do not see it as destructive. Is that how I see it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-3.u50	I am not in favour of the amendment, because it brings out the substance of the legislative proposal. We want to deal with the abuse. The bill does that by removing the penalty payment. The VVD agrees.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-3.u51	I hear representatives of political parties, when they are opposed to an amendment, yelling here sometimes: it is destructive! Well, that sounds like war language. I'm not hearing that right now. I'm glad. That means that we can treat it nicely.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-3.u52	I'm not much for using big words. We just need to name what it's all about. That's what the VVD wants to do. With this bill we see that happening in a good way. This bill assumes that we will remove the penalty payment. Mrs Keijzer tabled an amendment to maintain the penalty payment. I disagree. I don't need big words for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-3.u53	Mr. Chairman. Attention to active openness and faster decision-making is and remains necessary, we hear a lot from government circles. But don't pin me on it, the government seems to say with this bill. The Minister used great words: the bill aims to collect periodic penalty payments, to target abuse of the WOB, which undermines good governance and the quality of service, to abuse aimed at frustrating the governing body or resulting from an obsessive pursuit of openness. Do these words fit in with the administrative problem addressed by this bill? The CDA Group is very concerned about this. Unfortunately, we are also aware of the phenomenon of public authorities who train and are not prepared to disclose public information on their own. The examples are numerous. For now, I will confine myself to a number of examples at a rich level. Last Tuesday, my colleague Omtzigt stood before a minister who seems to have made it a personal mission not to inform the Chamber. And this was just about a billion euros or something. The implementation of the new Police Act is surrounded by shadowiness. The negative reports on the implementation of the right of draw by the Social Insurance Bank come only after a very long time of questions and only partly press to the Chamber and so shortly before the debate that no one can read them anymore. This week, it was announced that there could be fraud with state subsidies of up to EUR 6 billion. The report on this matter that's in the Public Prosecutor's Office doesn't get the Chamber. In that we are supported by the PvdA and the VVD, let me add. We will get a note from the government in which she responds to the news about it. The last temporary topper, the highest new entry is the tax agreement. This concerns "only" all Dutch and can have great consequences, but the Minister does not think it is important enough to make it public. No need, he says with the well-known grin from ear to ear. Against these kinds of governments, the citizen must have a stick behind the door. Lex Oomkes wrote a beautiful article in Trouw this week about public access to government, the starting point of public access. I will immediately review some of the quotes. The government pays lip service to the openness of administration and seems to have more to do with plush than with publicity. In traffic with the Chamber, this cabinet prefers to give as limited an explanation as possible of its obligation to provide information. It is not uncommon for journalists to use the Public Administration Act, and experience is not uncommon for them to be unheard of. They strike a government which, contrary to established case law, seems to make it a personal mission on its Dijsselbloems not to give any openness. The government should take note of what I have just said, but perhaps my words are not enough. That is why I would like to mention a few authoritative words from illustrious predecessors. Thorbecke said in 1854, "My lords, it was other times." I think that when the Minister is asked for information, the Minister should not seek excuses or excuses. The minister shouldn't duck, he should respond. In my view, he should not remain below what is required. On the contrary, in the event that his clarification is not considered sufficient, he must offer more. Karel Polak, Minister for Justice in the De Jong Cabinet, also a VVD member, see in 1979: Ministers cannot suffice to provide information. They must question, explain and defend their policies. A ministerial responsibility which merely requires answers to the questions put by Members of Parliament is too lean. Why is Polak saying this? The ministerial responsibility is to a large extent preventive. Knowing that any policy action, any administrative act, indifferent to its importance, can and must be held accountable in public, prevents unadvised and improper action. It also prevents laxity and carelessness among ministers and officials. Why am I discussing this here? Because public access means providing information to the Chamber on the one hand and to the citizens on the other. It has to do with each other. The attitude which is being worked on in this area leaves a lot to be desired. The CDA Group does not call for disclosure of everything. You can't and you don't have to. The Public Administration Act rightly has exceptions, but as far as I am concerned, the way in which the government is currently dealing with the principle of public access and the obligation of constitutional information to the Chamber and the Public Administration Act is far from the words of not the least predecessors of current directors. I'd like to get a response from this minister. Against governments that do not take these recommendations seriously, you can at least give the citizen a stick behind the door. That's what this bill is about. Due to the abuse of the Public Administration Act, changes need to be made. That's the story. If you read the proposal correctly, there are two ways of abuse. Firstly, there are people and companies who have a earning model to the periodic penalty payments linked to the Public Administration Act. Secondly, there are people who, for all kinds of reasons, frustrate the government body in question with but continue to submit requests. In the note following the report, the Minister states that there is no overall overview of the number of WOB requests resulting in a penalty payment. The ministries are each year concerned with one to one forfeited periodic penalty payments per ministry. In the Monitor Wet Penalty and Occupation we read that 6% of the municipalities have paid a penalty payment for WOB requests. However, the Minister warns us that the number of periodic penalty payments paid does not in itself indicate the extent of the problem of abuse. Organisations should also make every effort to reach the decision-making deadline in cases of alleged abuse. And that, in view of the limited number of periodic penalty payments, it is possible to say something more about the use of administrative bodies than about the extent of the penalty payment problem. The CDA Group welcomes the use of the administrative bodies, but you can also appreciate them differently and say that the Penalty and Occupation Act is apparently a good stick behind the door for all those governing bodies. So they do their utmost to give people the information they are asking for and what they are entitled to in time. I would like a response from the Minister to this view on the fact that so few periodic penalty payments are forfeited. In the run-up to this bill, a number of suggestions have been raised to combat abuse. For example, the Council proposed for the case-law that applicants should use a standard form for WOB applications. That seems to us to be a good idea, especially for the companies that have a earning model based on submitting hidden WOB requests and then collecting the penalty payment. With a form you avoid WOB requests that are hidden in application letters or footnotes. However, the Minister has a fundamental objection to this. A standard form is not in line with the principle of the WOB. The WOB is intended to provide a low-threshold provision for the provision of information, and thus the WOB request is form-free. If this government were to apply this principle more widely within the government, a lot of forms could disappear! In addition to an objection in principle, the Minister also raises a practical objection in the explanatory memorandum. A prescribed form may restrict access to information due to a possible lack of digital or physical availability of the form. Then I wonder how that relates to reluctant governments that are now refusing to provide information. If you allow all administrative bodies to use a required form, it is a technical complex, says the Minister. Forms can run out and websites can be unreachable. That's why he doesn't want a form. The Minister hasn't convinced me yet. That is why I have tabled an amendment to include the use of a standard form in the law. Abuse of the WOB by camouflaged WOB requests, on which the periodic penalty payments are then cashed, is simply end of practice. That won't happen again. Didn't you use the form? Then you're not eligible for the penalty. I would like to get a response to this amendment, which is somewhat opposition-based. With regard to the second variant of abuse, namely citizens who wish to frustrate a particular government body and submit endless requests, case law has now been formed. It is therefore clear what a public body should do in this situation. Why, then, is this bill if both forms of abuse are easy to solve, without putting your benevolent critical citizens on the ground like that? The Public Administration Act was not created to make it easier for the government. The Public Administration Act is there to give citizens an instrument to follow the government critically. That can be uncomfortable for the government, and that's a good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-3.u54	Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about disconnecting the WOB and the Penalty Act. In fact, there is a very different and much bigger problem behind it. Most applicants for a WOB request do not want a penalty payment at all, but simply the requested information. It is therefore a good thing that Mr Voortman and Mr Schouw have tabled an initiative legislative proposal which is precisely about the open government. After all, as my colleague Astrid Oosenbrug pointed out during the debate on the initiative proposal, the WOB runs on its last legs. Last week, during another debate, we understood that the initiative legislative proposal is likely to be put back to plenary again soon in order to be dealt with further. The PvdA supports the request that the Woo be dealt with quickly. Before that, however, there is a whole other problem. Given the freedom of form of the WOB, malicious people can easily abuse the Penalty Act. That's exactly what's happening. There are differences of opinion about the extent of the abuse, but the essence remains that the link between the Public Administration Act and the Penalty Act opens a door for evildoers to collect tax money very easily. We shouldn't want that. The PvdA therefore considers it a good thing to stop this abuse. In our view, however, this should not lead the good to suffer from evil. Many people are quite rightly appealing to the WOB. As has already been said, they want to obtain the information requested from the administrative body rather than a periodic penalty payment. The Labour Party believes, however, that the present bill is very much written from the point of view of the abuser. It does not do justice to all other people. It would therefore like to bring back the balance sheet in the legislative proposal a little bit more.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-3.u55	When we were talking to Mr Veldman, we found that the abuse is very low in absolute numbers, percentages and the number of people to whom this applies. I now turn to the other side of the discussion. How do we ensure that people get that information quickly? We are dealing here with the information of the government. I have given a number of examples such as the Tax Agreement and the documents on the implementation of the Police Act and the drawing right of the Social Insurance Bank. I mentioned the discussion about traffic fines to foreigners. If we are going to table motions in which we are asking for these documents to be published, will the Labour Party support them? Then today we are really taking steps towards openness.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-3.u56	I understand very well that Mrs Keijzer wants to have another discussion, but she has also heard Mrs Oosenbrug's contribution to the first term of the Open Government Act. We are in principle very positive about the Open Government Act. We can talk about something else today, but I think we will get to the heart of Mr Schouw and Mrs Voortman's remark that we need to talk about the legislative proposal that is on the agenda today. Today we are not talking about the Open Government Act, but about the abuse of the Penalty Law in the context of the WOB. Mrs Keijzer can bring forward very interesting discussions, but I do not think they are justified in the context of this legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-3.u57	That is strange, because Mrs Fokke has just asked how to ensure that the government provides more information and is more open. I would like to give some examples and ask her if she is prepared to vote in favour of motions aimed at making those documents public. That is indeed the issue, because if the government does not give that information to the Chamber, journalists then submit WOB requests and they end up in a swamp. The penalty is the only stick behind the door. I therefore ask once again whether Mrs Fokke is prepared to support the CDA group in her request to receive these documents. I've listed a lot of them and everyone who's listening to them now has one on the retina. I'd just like to say yes or no. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-3.u58	I understand that Mrs Keijzer wants answers to questions that are not on the agenda today. On 9 December, the first period of treatment of the Act was open government. The Labour Party is positive about that. I think the CDA is much more critical of the Open Government Act. Let us assess legislative proposals on their merits. It's not about the open government today. The Labour Party is for openness and transparency, that is true, but we are talking today about the link between the Penalty Act and the WOB. This is the subject of today's debate. We can make the debate very broad, but that is not on today's agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-3.u59	It is on the agenda, because why are we talking about this today? We are talking about this because citizens, journalists, do not get the information that the government should give. That's what this is about. Both Mrs Keijzer and Mr Veldman ask each time: how do we get a government to actually give the information? I'm making a concrete proposal. We are tabling a motion, together with Mrs Fokke, if necessary, to ensure that all those documents which are currently being shadowy, which are not provided or blacked out, simply go into society. Is Mrs. Fokke willing to do that? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-3.u60	As Mrs Keijzer knows, the WOB is subject to conditions and public authorities must comply with them. I think that's what's happening. It is exactly as Mrs Keijzer said: openness, but there are ifs and buts to the Public Administration Act. Again, we are not talking today about the Publicity Act. I have already said that I would like to deal with Mr Schouw's own-initiative proposal and Mrs Voortman's proposal as soon as possible, but today it is about the fact that people seem to have discovered a trap between the Public Administration Act and the Abuse Act. We need to find a solution to that today. We all agree that there should be no abuse, but we do disagree on the way in which you should resolve it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-3.u61	First of all, I would like to thank Mrs Fokke, also on behalf of Mrs Voortman, for her warm words on the legislative initiative. There is a discussion about the nature and extent of this bill. I'm just trying to taste the urgency, the bloodshed, to take it ahead of the wider law. On this initiative law, the Labour Party also says that it finds him interesting and that it would like to think along with it. Wouldn't it be wiser to deal with the wider law here a little earlier and let this law follow?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-3.u62	The VVD and the Labour Party have filed a motion at the budget treatment, but the linking of the Penalty Law to the WOB is not something new. In 2011, a CDA Minister consulted a bill, because soon after the WOB was linked to the Penalty Act, it was said: something is not working here. So I think this matter is urgent. However, I am struggling with the following, and I think we have the same struggle. Of course you can say that the Open Government Act and the problem we are dealing with today are somewhat related. But honesty also commands me to say that the Open Government Act was on its way almost two years before it was dealt with in plenary session in its first term. The law now before us has a much faster lead time. That's why I'm thinking, you can do one thing and you can't stop the other. But I understand Mr Schouw's struggle, because I feel it too. Only this problem is very urgent and you have to want to solve it. In addition, you should all talk about how we see the open government in 2015 and beyond.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-3.u63	My pain is also a little in the fact that we agreed with each other at procedural meetings of various committees that we would let the initiative law go ahead with this law, but that the outcome of that agreement is the other way round. I invite Mrs Fokke once again to make it very clear what the bloodshed, the superurgency, is for the Labour Party to deal with this now. Why can't we deal with the wider law in a few weeks, or maybe by September at the latest? What exactly is the urgency?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-3.u64	There's definitely a problem. Evil will take advantage of the linking of the WOB to the Penalty Act and submit very strange requests. If you read the letter from the Attorney General and see how much the number of requests has increased, you can't say there's nothing going on. You can let that pass, but you can also say: we have to close this hatch. I think we're there ourselves. I also think it is my responsibility as a member of the PvdA Chamber. Shall I be very honest? I am well aware of the fact that the Penalty Act has ever resulted from an initiative bill proposed by one of my predecessors, Mr Wolfsen. In practice, it works very well in some laws. The motion-Fokke/Taverne was not a limited motion that was only aimed at the WOB. It was a general motion, with which it was said: look at the overall playing field to which the Penalty Act applies. So there are laws where this works just fine. But we've found that the Penalty Act on a particular component, the WOB, is not working. At least evildoers can take advantage of it. That is very sad for the people who are making justified requests. The government has to solve that as soon as possible and close that hatch. That is exactly what the Labour Party would like to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-3.u65	Mrs Fokke's motion has now been tabled more than a year and a half ago. Now we are talking about this bill, while we have already dealt with the first term of the Open Government Act. What is the bloodshed in, as Mr Schouw called it, that this must be dealt with for a few weeks for the treatment of the Open Government Act? Explain that. What's with the emergency?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-3.u66	I think that at that time we all said that the abuse had to be looked at. It's urgent. It is not for nothing that in 2011 a bill from the then CDA Minister was in consultation. Now, with this proposal, you just have to speed up. Mrs Voortman can say that this bill is going to crash hopelessly in the First Chamber, but I think that if the Open Government Act is beyond the Second Chamber Mrs Voortman knows how the First Chamber works; we once stood there together he has not been treated one-two-three in the First Chamber. I would like to give the following to Mrs Voortman. She also sees the problem of the link between the Open Government Act and the Penalty Act. I don't think the decoupling of the Penalty Law was initially in the Open Government Act either. When signals came from the press and the VNG that something was going on, the Open Government Act introduced the release of the penalty payment. So Mrs Voortman herself sees that it is urgent. So let's do one thing, but let's not let the other. So it's fine that we're standing here today. That is good, but we must do it with urgency. In view of last week's debate on this issue, I had actually expected that the Open Government Act would not be dealt with in plenary this week. I am therefore in favour of keeping pace with both laws, because one does not rule out the other. As long as you don't have the Open Government Act, it's fine to close a hatch in the WOB. The Open Government Act must become a successor to the WOB.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-3.u67	I haven't indicated at all that I think this bill will end in the First Chamber. However, I believe that Mrs Fokke's fear is probably not entirely unjustified. This point is included in our balanced Open Government Act following extensive talks with this minister. What is at issue here is whether this is an emergency issue, which requires us to cut this off here and now, right now. I have still not received an answer from Mrs Fokke. What facts are there that this problem is so urgent that it should be incorporated into a separate law?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-3.u68	We can have a philosophical discussion here about how many there are. But if you look around the Netherlands and see all the consultation letters from the police and the College of Attorneys General, which are also included in this bill, and if you are going to talk to municipalities and the Union of Water Councils, then you cannot insist that nothing is going on. If you look at the numbers in the college letter, in some years we are not talking about a doubling but a fivefold increase since the WOB is linked to the Penalty Act. Then you cannot insist that the problem is not urgent and that nothing has to happen. Well, there's got to be a balance. It is not going in the right direction if a legislative proposal is mainly directed towards the abusers. There are a lot of people who submit legitimate WOB requests. That is what I will come up with in my amendment. I want more balance in this bill. That balance is not in the balance right now. Last week, when the Re-use of Public Sector Information Act was discussed, a deadline for the provision of information was mentioned. I can imagine that the deadline proposed by the amendment will also apply to the WED. This would mean going back from eight to six weeks. Can the Minister state his views on this? In addition, the PvdA considers that only the appeal of the direct action, with many additional conditions in the WOB to prevent abuse, raises an excessive threshold. People need to move directly to court, leading to unnecessarily high costs and legalisation of the process. The Labour Party is therefore in favour of simply opening the possibility of objection again in the WOB. That is why we have tabled an amendment on this subject. As far as the PvdA is concerned, we leave people the choice. Let them decide whether they object or whether they prefer to appeal directly. Because on the subject before us we like to keep our finger on the pulse under the motto "how do the rules we lay down here in Parliament work in practice?', the PvdA would like an evaluation to be carried out. That is also included in the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-3.u69	I believe that this is the amendment to item No. Nine is... nine is... nine is... nine is... nine is... nine is... nine is... nine is... nine This makes it possible for people to raise objections before they go to court. Doesn't that just mean waiting any longer?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-3.u70	No. You can do different things. In the country it is said: if the bill is not there, please return the objection. That works fine in itself within the framework of the Public Administration Act and I am sensitive to that. People say it used to just function. For 2009 we had an objection procedure in the Public Administration Act and that is fine. Now it might be a bit legal, but that's my old branch of sport. In addition to submitting objections, you can go to court and enforce it more quickly. In fact, if you really want information, you may end up getting what you want faster through the objection procedure than through the direct appeal. It is precisely in the context of this legislative proposal and in the context of the WOB that many thresholds are incorporated into the direct profession. So it's just a question of getting your information faster. In the end, we want people to get their information quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-3.u71	Yes, we want that, but that will mean, in practice, that if the amendment is adopted, you will object to the same government in the event of a refusal. Then you get a hearing and an opinion from an appeal committee and then the government says: we don't do it anyway. Then you're de facto months away, aren't you? That's not gonna make any sense, is it? This doesn't speed up the process of obtaining information that people are entitled to, does it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-3.u72	The way I think it goes too far today to give a course on the Open Government Act that is not currently in place I would not like to give a course on the General Administrative Law Act. The hink-step-jump that makes you that you should have a hearing anyway, doesn't add up. If you, as the petitioner, believe that a hearing is not necessary because the case is clear, and you just want to have that information, then you can waive a hearing. In the objection, that can go very quickly. If you don't trust the government agency, you can do two things. You can appeal directly, which makes my amendment possible, but you can also go to court pending the objection. Your amendment raises a very fundamental threshold in the WOB and gnaws at the WOB far more than the amendment I have tabled. Leave people the choice and keep the speed in. This can be done through direct appeal if not all the clocks and spoons in the bill are actually implemented, but this can also be done through objection. We want the decision to be made as soon as possible, even if it doesn't come in the first place.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-3.u73	This brings to an end the first term of office. There was a little more debate than we had anticipated beforehand, so it also took a little longer. As a result, it is not possible to give the Minister's answer today. We have another debate to start at 1 p.m. on the spot, so we will schedule the Minister's reply as soon as possible in the first period.
