ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-4.u1	Mr. Chairman. Today, for the first time, there was violence between a NATO ally and Russia over Syria. It is also the first time since the 1950s that a NATO Member State has taken down a Russian aircraft. The Turkish Government claims that the aircraft flew over Turkey and that it was shot with an F-16 after repeated warnings, while Russia claims that the aircraft flew over Syria and that it was shot down by anti-aircraft guns on the ground. In any case, it is certain that escalation is imminent and that the tension is rising. This is a very worrying incident, which could have serious consequences if we do not keep our heads down. Turkey has already reached out to the UN and NATO. I ask the Minister what facts the cabinet has. Is it true, for example, that the Russian pilot has been warned several times before? Is it true that the plane flew over Turkish territory? Turkey has requested an urgent NATO session today. Is that application covered by Article 4? What happened this morning is not the first incident between Turkey and Russia. It characterizes the chaos and disorder and underlines that the coalition is not united in the fight against ISIS. In particular, it underlines the absolute need for a broad-based political and military plan. That is why I have a question about Minister Hennis' visit to Washington. It was announced as a JSF visit, but it turned out to be a concrete request from the United States to contribute militaryly over Syria. It was a remarkable request because the United States also knows that the coalition does not agree on this. Such a request is usually made to the Minister of Foreign Affairs and not to the Minister of Defence. Can this minister indicate whether today's events change the cabinet position? And what was the answer that the Cabinet gave to the United States?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. I thank Mr Sjoerdsma for his questions on whatever the cabinet sees as a very serious incident. We too have seen the messages. According to Turkey, the aircraft has been alerted ten times in five minutes. Russia in turn claims that the plane was taken down over Syria. The Dutch cabinet does not have any further facts at the moment. This afternoon, at the request of Turkey, NATO ambassadors will speak about it. Mr Sjoerdsma said the same thing. This does not happen under an Article 4 procedure; it is called an emergency consultation. If there are new facts as a result of this consultation, then, of course, they can be discussed tomorrow in general consultation with NATO with my colleague Mr Koenders. With regard to the second part of Mr Sjoerdsma's question, I repeat what Minister Hennis said this morning. The US considers it desirable that the allies in the anti-ISIS coalition should act as unanimously as possible against ISIS. The Cabinet feels the same way. We are already a very active partner in that struggle. Mr Sjoerdsma knows that too. We contribute to the diplomatic process and provide civilian and humanitarian support, but also contribute to the military aspects. Again, Mr Hennis reported this morning what the United States thinks. We agree with that. It is desirable to work together as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-4.u3	I thank the Minister for her answers. It states that the cabinet does not yet have any further facts as to what exactly happened this morning over Syrian or Turkish territory. I saw President Putin, who, apart from the facts that are known here, spoke in firm terms. He said that Russia was stabbed in the back by Turkey with a knife. He said that if the NATO alliance continues to support Turkey, the NATO alliance will actually support ISIS. I'm asking the Minister how she feels about that. I do not see in those words the de-escalation that we need, the reduction of tension. What further does this incident mean for the prospect of a political strategy and a united coalition? I ask this because, of course, it is not just about this incident. Turkey and Russia all claim to attack ISIS, but in the Turkish case it is mainly the Kurds and in the case of Russia it is mainly the moderate opposition. What does this mean for this political strategy? With regard to the NATO meeting, the Minister says that it is not an Article 4 meeting. Of course, it is not the first time Turkey has called NATO together. On July 28th of this year it did so. Has Turkey requested concrete assistance in the run-up to this meeting? If so, what is this assistance? Does the cabinet have a position on that yet? The Minister is right to say that there will be a general discussion tomorrow in which we can have further discussions. Can I ask the Minister, given the seriousness of the matter, to ensure in any case that we have a report on the NATO meeting this afternoon prior to the general consultation? The Minister says: we agree with the United States that we must work together. No one will be surprised. I note, however, that Minister Hennis receives requests wherever she goes and that this does not apply to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I hope that the cabinet will continue to speak with one voice on this point too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-4.u4	As far as the latter is concerned, of course. There's no need to say that. I would like to say to Mr Sjoerdsma that it is important for everyone to keep a cool head. For this reason, I do not go into statements from any government leader, which I have had to hear from the press or from Mr Sjoerdsma, who, moreover, is generally a reliable source. I didn't get to see those messages myself. It is important to de-escalate, it is also important to wait for that meeting this afternoon. I will forward Mr Sjoerdsma's request for further information to my colleague prior to the AO. I can imagine that he would be happy to accept that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-4.u5	In view of the clock, I can say that an additional demand is allowed for all groups. Instead of two, three questions can be asked today. However, you may also confine yourself to one question, Mr Van Bommel.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-4.u6	The incident, the taking down of the Russian plane, once again shows what kind of wasp nest there is over Syria. The Netherlands should not want to make another contribution to this by responding to the Americans' request to bomb there as well. But that is not what my question is about, because we will have a debate on it later. My question concerns Turkey's attitude. It is clear that the Russians support the government in Syria and the Turks oppose it. There is therefore a contradiction between Russia and Turkey. Now that the Turks have taken down a Russian plane, an escalation of a conflict in Syria is threatening a conflict between a NATO ally and Russia because of the possible violation of Turkish airspace. Now Dutch airspace is sometimes violated by airplanes from Russia, but they are accompanied neatly to the border of the Dutch airspace.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-4.u7	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-4.u8	In other words, we don't shoot it right out of the sky. My question to the Minister is to make an urgent request from the Netherlands at the NATO meeting today to Turkey to exercise restraint in the event of airspace violations. Otherwise there will be a much greater conflict, which may involve the whole of NATO. And nobody's gonna wish that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-4.u9	The discussion this afternoon is of course also intended to get the facts straight and to hear from the various people present how they view the incident. Of course, the Netherlands is calling to keep a cool head. This seems to me to be extremely sensible in general terms, but certainly in this situation. So that's what we'll do. I just said that to Mr Sjoerdsma. This afternoon, I am sure, we will be able to say the same at the NATO meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-4.u10	Support for this minister's cool head. I do think that would be wise in the event of a serious incident like this. I would also like to point out that it is wise not only to sit down in NATO, but also with the Russians and therefore with the UN. My question concerns the objectives of the various partners in the international coalition. Can the Minister confirm that the troops that were attacked by the Russians are actually a division of the Free Syrian Army? In other words, are we dealing here with a typical example of part of the resistance against Assad supported by the West, not only by Turkey but also by the Netherlands and the United States, where the Russians are still bombing at the same time? I ask this because it shows how contradictory the commitment of the various parties is still.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-4.u11	As I said just now in reply to Mr Sjoerdsma's question, the facts must first be clarified. We do not have that at our disposal. I just reported what we know. We hope, of course, to hear more at the NATO meeting this afternoon. There will undoubtedly be more insight into the answer to the question put by Mr Servaes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-4.u12	The Minister just spoke about the need for a united coalition strategy. Let me project that to the cabinet itself. The Secretary of Defense has already stated on several occasions that she does not want to wait until September to intervene in Syria. She is now coming back from Washington with the message that more needs to be done; the Netherlands is being called upon. The Foreign Minister has not yet been able to take a decision, but to do so only after there is a political strategy. Where is the cabinet now? Keeping your head cool is nice, but that's not enough, because there are big problems. England is raising the defence budget considerably, the Americans are appealing to us, and possibly the Turks, Mr Sjoerdsma was just talking about it, but our Patriots are in the barn for maintenance and will not be operational for the next one and a half years. What's the cabinet going to decide now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-4.u13	Last week, the cabinet discussed with the Chamber in detail and also sent a letter to the Chamber stating that the cabinet does not consider the time to decide on the possible extension of the Dutch commitment in Syria at this time. That's it. Not only do I say that, but the other members of the cabinet also say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-4.u14	Once again, it becomes clear that it is very important to know when there will be elections in Syria again with a prior campaign, but that it may be even more important to check first which air campaign is being conducted there, especially after this morning's incident with Russians and Turks. These are two countries that have started to operate on their own and are not bound by a coalition strategy. Does the Minister with the VVD Group think that a military strategy should be put in place very quickly? Can it indicate how the American request should be placed in it? Has it been a formal request, were we merely pulsed and which rulers were questioned about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-4.u15	Those are many questions arising from the incident which took place this morning and of which we do not yet know the facts. To be honest, I do not think it would be wise to have the broader debate on the basis of that incident, with all the lack of information we have on this issue. Tomorrow, Mr Koenders will be available for an AO NATO. In this he will undoubtedly report on what has been discussed this afternoon. This morning, Minister Hennis said, on the occasion of her visit, that the United States has indicated that it is desirable for us to step up together and act as unitedly as possible against ISIS. The cabinet feels the same way; that's not news. That's all there is to it right now. There is no doubt that it will come back to this at a later date. Again, we wrote a letter about this last week. That's where the government is now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-4.u16	I can imagine something that this Minister is unable to say at this point and at this moment. I would like to add my voice to the questioner's question, Mr Sjoerdsma. I would add that I expect that the letter that we will receive from NATO ambassadors this afternoon will contain the answers to the questions I have just asked. What does it mean to operate jointly? When will we see this military strategy? How does it relate to the letter sent by the Netherlands last week, for example on "deconflict"? And what is the nature of the request?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-4.u17	I will be happy to pass that request on to my colleague Mr Koenders. I'm sure he'll answer those questions as best he can right now. Then there is an opportunity to debate this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-4.u18	"De-escalation" is the key word. It is not just about the international relations that have been very sharply strengthened this morning, but also about the civilian population in northern Syria. I do not think these events are separate from what we saw last weekend. Russian fighters have also targeted civilian targets in northern Syria, with a lot of deaths, especially among the Turkmen population. We have notified oral questions on this subject which have not been granted by you, Mr President. What measures can be taken internationally to protect the civilian population in Syria, the Turkmen who are in a vulnerable position, as we rightly protected the Jezidis in Sinjar last summer when they were attacked by ISIS?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-4.u19	I think it is important to mention that the Russian ambassador to Ankara has been summoned by the Turkish authorities. The discussion on this particular subject is therefore also taking place there. I repeat here an earlier appeal from the cabinet to Russia to focus on the fight against ISIS and on a political solution to the conflict. In this context, I would like to explore what more we can do to protect any population that is the victim of violence in the region.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-4.u20	I see this as a commitment. I would like to see a letter to the Chamber return to this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-4.u21	I have a number of requests from the Chamber. I'll pass it on to Mr Koenders. I can imagine that this will also be discussed briefly, because it will be discussed in various bodies.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-4.u22	Mr Van Bommel, a brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-4.u23	Now that the Minister for Development himself refers to statements made by the Minister of Defence, I would like to ask a question about this, because it is not customary to discuss requests from allies if there is no agreement on this. Otherwise, you will also raise the expectation that you will agree to that. So the question is: has a request been made to the Minister of Defence for Dutch assistance in bombing over Syria, or has this only been discussed in the spirit of wish? Has a request been made or a wish made?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-4.u24	It is very annoying; I am repeating myself, but I am going to do it anyway, because I would like to answer Mr Van Bommel. The United States strongly agrees with the government that the allies in the anti-ISIS coalition are united against ISIS as much as possible. Again, so does the Cabinet. That's what I just said. Mr Van Bommel also heard Minister Hennis say that this morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-4.u25	Mr Sjoerdsma, an additional question on your own questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-4.u26	I have a question because I do have sympathy for Mr Van Bommel's question. So let me reverse the question: no request has been made by the United States?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-4.u27	I'd like to say it again. Mr Sjoerdsma heard it on the radio this morning. I repeat it to my colleague Hennis: it is desirable, as the US has once again said, that the anti-ISIS coalition should act as unitedly as possible. Again, sorry for the repeat.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-4.u28	Thank you for your answers and for coming to the Chamber.
