ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u1	Mr. Chairman. The message from the CPB was "sitting down costs 500 million." Staying here costs money. Yeah, I think so. Opportunities for children cost money, but opportunities for children are extremely important. The Secretary of State's reaction was, in short: staying seated is out of time, staying seated is old-fashioned and we're going to do something about it, with summer schools, switching classes, dinghy courses and so on. This in itself has our warm support, but it is true that far too little money is available for this. In 2015 9 million, structurally thanks to the budget agreement 25 million. Education is full of perverse incentives that are not intended to serve children's interests. That's what's going on here. A teacher should be able to determine whether it is good for a child to sit or stay a year longer. Let me give you a few examples. In the upper secondary education system you can see that many students remain in the pre-graduate class. In my group's view, this is the direct consequence of the incentive for schools to be paid for their exam results. Does the Secretary of State want to respond to that? What bothers me even more is that I get a lot of reports that primary school teachers are being pressured to send pupils born in October, November or December to third grade early, just because it delivers money. Can the Secretary of State respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. An interesting report has been published by the CPB, which partly confirms what a part of this Chamber and many parties in education already feel: sitting down is not always the most effective and motivating way to ensure that children obtain their final diploma in a good way. That is one of the reasons why we have said in the sector agreements, with the extra money that the cabinet makes available, partly thanks to the extra resources also from D66 in the autumn agreement, that we want to see if we can do these summer schools in a different way, in order to ensure that children do not have to do over a whole year, but can do it in part. Mr Van Meenen's question is whether staying in the penultimate year of exams is a result of taking final examinations. I'd like to turn it around. It is sometimes also a consequence of the fact that it is rather late to find out that pupils have fallen behind in learning and that they may not pass the final exam. Because apart from what the inspection is looking at, we want all the kids to just leave school with a diploma. Then the question is: is 4 havo or 5 vwo the right time? No, I would much prefer it to be recognised much earlier and that something preventive has already been done to overcome children's educational disadvantages. Then I come to the second question. Is the inspection looking at schools that keep children in kindergarten longer? What the inspection does is to look at the moment children switch from group 2 to group 3, to see if it is an individual assessment per pupil. There should not be any kind of generic measure. Each child should be checked to see if it is ready to go to group 3. If weird patterns come out there, for example, when a school only lets a lot of children go to third grade much later, then that is a reason for a conversation and not otherwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u3	I think the Secretary of State packed something bad in a nice sauce. He talks about schools giving children longer children, but children born in October, November or December usually go to third grade a year later. It used to be, and it should still be the starting point. At the moment, the starting point is reversed. Schools should be accountable if they do not allow children born in those months to go to third grade early. I would like to ask the Secretary of State if such an order has been given to the inspection to ask for that responsibility from schools and, if so, if he is prepared to withdraw that order immediately. My second question is this. Of course, it is good to bet on summer schools, but if there is profit to be gained from avoiding sitting where it is unnecessary, can he guarantee here and now that this is not a cut-off? Is he also willing to look into the reasons why staying in the pre-graduate year is so high? He's assuming that might be good for students, but I'd like to ask him to really investigate. It's a pattern that's been emerging in recent years, and I'd like to test my assumption that this is mainly because schools are afraid to be paid for their final exam results.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u4	It is not the case that children born in October, November or December should accelerate the inspection to Group 3. In 1985 these laws and regulations were abandoned. However, schools are looked at when children make the transition from group 2 to 3. If those are highly deviant patterns, then that's a reason for having a conversation with the inspection. Then there may be good reasons, but it is up to the school to tell us why that is different, but it is not as automatic and precise as Mr Van Meenen describes here. I'm certainly willing to look into the reasons for staying. It's not the only investigation we're doing. This week, an interdepartmental policy study is starting to look at effective learning routes, and this seems to me to be an excellent question to include.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u5	The Secretary of State did not accept my third comment with an answer. Can he guarantee here and now that his fight against staying in no way has the intention of being a austerity? For example, if profits can be made in a responsible way, they must be able to be used for strengthening summer schools and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u6	There is no question at all of cutting back on education. In fact, there's almost a billion extra to education. That money is being used for summer schools, so Mr Van Meenen asks me a rather hypothetical question about future profits. We have made agreements with secondary education and with primary education which reduces the number of sitting-holders. That seems to me to be an excellent ambition.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u7	Staying here isn't funny. If you can prevent that, you should definitely do it. I find the Secretary of State's economic spectacles very worrying on this point. He literally says: we already knew that sitting around is an old-fashioned and expensive way to keep students around. Is the Secretary of State really such a cold accountant who only sees the students as a cost, or does he also want to get the maximum out of students, where he wants to take the double if necessary? Is that serious to him, or is he still holding on to his economic look?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u8	I would advise Mr Van Dijk to listen to my full reaction. In this full response I have also indicated that staying in education for a lot of children is often not the most motivating way of catching up with education. I'm not the only one who thinks that either. This is widely felt in education, and that is precisely the reason why we should make agreements with education in order to reduce both primary and secondary education. I'm excited about the summer schools. Why would you let a child do a whole year again, including the courses for which he has enough, if you could rethink him in the summer months on the one subject he's lagging behind?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u9	The answer to that question could be: because it might be optimal for the educational development of that child. However, I do not want to talk about this. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that it is too one-sided to mention an amount of 500 million as a cost for staying in prison? Is he prepared to give up a social cost-benefit analysis on this in order to have a good and balanced view of the consequences of staying in the shorter and longer term? In this way, not only the costs but also the benefits for children, the educational dimension among others, are involved. In this way, attention will also be paid to this in the longer term. Is the Secretary of State prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u10	Of course, the CPB is only one angle. So I think Mr Bishop is right that the CPB takes a limited look at this. However, the task of the CPB is to look mainly at the economic side. In doing so, it partly takes into account the social costs and benefits. On the educational side, I also agree with Mr Bishop. I didn't say sitting around is bad for all the students either. However, I have noticed that the number of sitting-backs in the Netherlands is many times higher than in many countries around us, and that the question is asked widely in education: is this always the best route? It depends, indeed, on this assessment lies with the school and the lecturer, which is the best course per child. For some children this will mean a year to be repeated, but it can be said to other children: we are going to try to catch up in the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u11	The Secretary of State has in me a supporter in the fight against staying seated. I don't think we're gonna do students justice if we let them do it over a whole year while they're already controlling part of the curriculum. Especially now that the Secretary of State with the CPB notes that sitting around costs a lot of money, I ask him if he is prepared to go into the summer schools pilots, so that all those students who can handle it with a little bit of extra effort by doing something in the summer schools can go to the next school year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u12	I have a feeling that I can reassure Mr Rog completely. What has once started small with the pilot summer schools can now be rolled out thanks to the agreements made and the extra money made available in the previous budget, both on primary and secondary education. There are lucrative amounts available for this. They add up to 20 million; you can do a lot for that. It is not for nothing that we have agreed specifically with the primary education system to reduce the number of seated persons. This also gives the schools the motivation and incentive to show tangible results.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-4.u13	Thank you for your answers. I had already thanked you for coming to the Chamber, but I will repeat that once more.
