ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u1	In the first term of the Chamber, we were able to listen to the contributions of the various members. Now, after a well-deserved lunch, we're going to listen to the Secretary of State for her answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. I will indicate how I intend to shape my response. First of all, I would like to say a few introductory words and to respond very briefly to some people's request to look back on the process. Secondly, I will deal with the question of the possible introduction of animal rights. The third theme is, of course, grazing. Fourthly, I will deal with the problems and cycles. Finally, I come to the famous block "other," always good for a variety of themes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u3	We always like that. My proposal would be to limit the questioning to after the cubes; that is five. I am not setting a ceiling on the number of interruptions for the time being, but if things get out of hand and there is a risk of night work going on, Mr Klaver was talking about it in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u4	Today we are talking about the AMvB land-based growth dairy farming. As the Chamber knows, the framework for this is the law on responsible growth in dairy farming, which came into force on 1 January, thanks to the Chamber. On the basis of that law, dairy farmers who expand their production must meet conditions ensuring that this extension of dairy farming takes place within the environmental boundary conditions laid down in the Nitrates Directive. Those conditions are that an increase in the manure production......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... It could also be a combination. This, of course, ensured, in the context of the Nitrates Directive, that the growth in dairy farming could not take place unbridledly but responsibly. However, during the handling of this law, the House discussed in detail the broader ambitions many of the Members have for the sector and for the sustainable future of dairy farming; I share those ambitions. These ambitions relate to issues such as land-boundness, grazing and animal welfare. Groundboundness is not a condition of the Nitrates Directive. However, the debate in both Chambers has shown that it is a social condition. Land-based dairy farmers can provide their own fodder to a significant extent, they have sufficient opportunities to feed their livestock and they have sufficient outlets for their own manure in the case of a farm plot of sufficient size. It is good to note here that it is not only my ambition but also that of the sector that dairy farming not only retains the land-based character for the future, but also strengthens it wherever possible. That is why completely groundless growth in dairy farming is an undesirable development, as has been emphasised in the Chamber today. The present AMvB therefore ensures that the expansion of dairy farming takes place at least partially ground-bound. The implementation of this AMvB has also been discussed with representatives of the sector: LTO, NZO, NajK and NMV. Civil society organisations, Nature & Environment and Environmental Defense were also invited. On the basis of that consultation, I conclude that there is support. Some of the organisations have also sent a letter to the Chamber, in which they have indicated that they support the present proposal. There may not be that kind of support for everyone. Of course, you always have organizations that think differently. I will go into the action groups, on Wake-up Animal, and on CLM, which is, of course, linked to the report. On that basis, of course, there is also criticism. We need to discuss this with each other, but at the same time I think there is a proposal on the table that could count on broad support. This does not mean that the work has been done. After all, it was agreed that further consultations should be held on the development of the AMvB in the context of the preparation of its implementation. I will come back to that in a moment. We also agreed that we should continue to talk about how we can strengthen regional loops and stimulate grazing. Those are subjects that come back separately. Mr Smaling, and I think Mr Klaver, asked how I looked back at the process. I have noted that land-based farming is at least a subject that concerns many people. It is also the broad view that we want to maintain that ground-boundness. But although many, also politically, parties feel that it is a social prerequisite to continue to grow and produce, there is not much unity of thought about how to ensure that. There are differences of opinion, both within the sector and in society and in the Chamber. For this reason, I have needed time to hear from all parties, both from the Chamber and from the sector and from the nature and environmental organisations. I believe that there is now a proposal that is ultimately not only workable, as has been said, but also does what the Chamber asks, namely to strengthen the land-based nature of dairy farming. It is also a proposal which, in any case, can count on the support of the people concerned. It is also important to make it a success. Mr Geurts asked me whether it would be reasonable to impose additional obligations on farmers who have already invested. However, we must note that this is the inevitable consequence of the broad desire for ground-based growth in this Chamber and its regulation. I think this is reasonable, because land-based development is needed for a forward-looking dairy farming for which there is social support. That is what all the parties here have clearly said. But if you do that, that also means making demands on certain companies. At a time when a company cannot meet the requirements, this does not necessarily mean that the requirement is unreasonable whether the company is a problem in advance. But more about that in a moment, because I will go into more detail about the problems. Mrs Dikkers said: we have now actually organised it in such a way that the responsibility for manure takes place afterwards. Would that not have been better organised in advance, in retrospect? That is what the Chamber itself has assessed extensively and finally decided. Pre-responsibility was part of the original legislation on compulsory manure treatment. That was decided in the idea of manure placement agreements. That part has, by the way, come up with a great deal of criticism because it would not be workable. In consultation with the Chamber, that part was removed from the bill for that reason. After all, it would lead to a very difficult implementation practice for entrepreneurs. Mr Geurts asked if I understood that the picture could arise that growth was allowed to happen first but not anymore. Isn't that a situation where you promote unpredictability for farmers? It is also good to note that unbridled growth, even after the expiry of the manure quotas, has never been mentioned. Indeed, the phosphate production ceiling from the derogation has been known for a very long time. After all, the Responsible Growth Act also limits unbridled growth. Dairy farmers had to dispose of land or process manure in any case. Those two elements were in the game from the beginning, you might say. The latter is now subject to further restrictions. Mrs Dik-Faber asked where we stand in three to five years' time with this AMvB. What perspective does the AMvB offer? In the end, it is a question of ensuring responsible growth in dairy farming. On the one hand, with the legislative proposal, we are trying to offer entrepreneurs in the dairy sector opportunities to grow. At the same time, we do so within the environmental limits. That's the perspective. We see a lot of demand for high-quality dairy products worldwide. I agree with Mr Graus that we not only have fantastic farmers, but also excellent products. You can also see that there is a lot of demand for that. At the same time, we notice that we live in a country with a lot of economic activity and a lot of pressure on the environmental boundary conditions, and that we need to shape this in a way that also fits the problems of phosphate, ammonia and so on. That's exactly the balance we're looking for. I think that's right. We will be discussing the phosphate ceiling in detail in a moment. However, we do not have a system that controls it. It is therefore important that we realise this. This is a responsibility which we are quite right to place on the industry itself. With the transport track, with innovation, they have a lot of opportunities to literally earn space in that growth. Mrs Dik-Faber asked how we would ensure that the growth of the most intensive companies is not at the expense of family businesses. All descriptions already show that Dutch dairy farming is an agricultural sector which is predominantly run as a family farm. I think that's something that should be in the forefront. You can also see that 75% of the sector can already be classified as land-based. The Chamber has been sent the record showing that. Mr Smaling has already referred to it and he is also the one who asked for this to be done in the written round. On the contrary, the present AMvB limits the unbridled growth of dairy farms because it increases as it increases. That's why a staffed system was chosen. The more intense you are, the more land you need to buy. The advantage of the stable system is that you are not only doing something about the largest phosphate surpluses, but that we are also doing something about the middle group. Mr Graus does not really allow me to use the word surplus, but that is a term that we use. I can see why he's saying it, but still. Also in the middle group something is happening now, as opposed to proposals that previously circulated. Earlier, nothing would actually happen there. That group could have grown, so to speak, only through manure processing. I think that the staff does exactly what is needed: the companies that are most intensive must also buy most of the land. You build that up, as it were. That's what you do in a reasonable manner. The balancing is of course also that you have to look at, for example, the effect that you have on the land prices. I will say something about this at the end of my speech, because the land price is going to rise. This affects not only dairy farming but also arable farming. We want to make growth possible, but we want to do so fairly. Then you come up with a proposition like this. This is a proposal in which, in my opinion, there is sufficient reason to support it. There is also criticism, as several Members have pointed out. That criticism is also different from tone. The Centre for Agriculture and the Environment carried out a study on behalf of Wakker Dier. The results did not come until this morning, so it is quite difficult for me to have to respond to such a story now. Usually it is useful to have a good look at the underlying data. I have had to respond to a story by CLM before, and then we found out that we were using other figures. So I find it rather difficult, I say quite honestly. In any case, as the main line, we can see that not only in the dairy sector but also in the other livestock sectors, there is a phenomenon that the permit capacity is higher, and sometimes even significantly larger, than the current size of the sector. Before economic operators actually decide to use that additional licence space in a business plan to be drawn up, many aspects are addressed. What about funding, for example? There is, of course, a new balancing factor in the game with the coming of the law on 1 January and certainly also when the Chamber decides to allow the AMvB to continue. Entrepreneurs will therefore have to take this into account. In other words, the present AMvB, which strengthens ground-boundness and the possibilities for grazing, which we want to promote, are all factors that will play a role in balancing. I trust that dairy farmers will consciously deal with the use of the available permit capacity. If this does not happen, all kinds of situations will arise when we reach the phosphate ceiling, because that is a hard upper limit. That is what we are going to talk about in the next block. So in all these investigations, someone will have to take into account that the ceiling is normal and that we will not let that exceed. I wonder if that actually got a place in this investigation. I don't know yet, because I have to do it with what I read at first. Mrs Ouwehand said that the ground that counts for groundboundness can be anywhere and that you can do other things with it. For the Fertilisers Act it is indeed not important where land is located. The AMvB doesn't change that. Nor is it necessary for the objective of the law itself, which is to improve, for example, the quality of soil and surface water. However, if your ambition is to increase grazing, it is clearly important to be very careful where the soil is located. If we want to agree that we are going to stimulate regional loops, this is, of course, also an element that does indeed play a role in the discussion. My final point in this large block is the question by Mr Smaling and Mr Klaver about a motion adopted in the First Chamber. It says that the whole story that is now regulated by law and AMvB is actually preferred to be regulated by law. The gentlemen asked me how I look at that. Actually, the undertone was a little bit: Secretary of State, you do what the First Chamber wants, don't you? We have found that we want to regulate the ground-boundness. Moreover, both Chambers have asked me to give farmers clarity as soon as possible. So let us determine in this AMvB what rules will apply. In doing so, we are giving the farmers the necessary clarity, because they are really waiting for that. I believe I may appear in the First Chamber on Tuesday. I would then, of course, like to have a conversation with the First Chamber about this. If the Chamber asks for something and says in a majority that it must, I believe that it is indeed the case. If the First Chamber says it should all be regulated in a law and she stays with it, that's a given for me. Then I'll put that into procedure. If you'll allow me, Mr President, I'd like to explain why I wouldn't think that was the ideal route myself. Well, I guess I have that right. It might be good to discuss this with each other during this debate. I say to Mr Klaver that it is impossible to complete a legislative proposal before 1 January. Mr Klaver asked me to explain why. I will only submit a legislative proposal once the AMvB is completed and I know exactly what there is support for, including in this house. So I have to wait until this procedure is completed anyway, because I can prepare anything, but that seems relevant to me. Nor do I intend to table a legislative proposal that is different from the outcome of the debate in the Chambers. In other words, the Chamber has influence through this discussion. The First Chamber is also discussing the AMvB with me. If a legislative proposal is to be passed, this means that I will include the outcome of what comes out here one-on-one in a legal text. The Council of State has to consult the Council of State through the Council of Ministers and the Section. The proposal must then be passed by the Second and First Chambers. We must also take into account the Referendum Act. That's new. I must honestly say that we have not realised this much earlier either. We must therefore take account of a time limit. I would point out to Mr Klaver that the Referendum Act did not exist in 2014. Because of this law, it is impossible to follow the same treatment schedule as last year. If the AMvB is not interrupted by the Lower House, the Council of State will also advise on it. Then my open question is: what is the substantive added value of a law, knowing that I will translate the proposal of the two chambers one-on-one into that law? You can have very fundamental views on this matter procedurally. I also exchanged that with the members of the First Chamber. I understand that, too, but I do not see the added value in terms of content. I would add that I need the capacity in the Ministry for a number of things that the Chamber considers important, namely what to do when the phosphate ceiling approaches. We are indeed preparing a legislative proposal and there is a lot of energy in it. The Chamber has asked me several questions about this; I will deal with that in a moment. I would like to concentrate on a good implementation of what is now in the AMvB. That won't be easy. People will claim, on the basis of the law alone, that they are a bottleneck. We will also have technical questions. I will make a proposal later on on how we can handle it wisely. We also need to concentrate on the subject of grazing and the further promotion of regional loops. Therefore, from my driver responsibility, I look at what it yields against the capacity I have to use for it. In this regard, I ask myself the question: why should we do this? I would like to say that I agree with you when the First Chamber insists. However, this will mean that the bill cannot enter into force before 1 January 2016. Because we work with calendar years, it will be 1 January 2017. If the First Chamber decides what I really do not hope to stop, we will lose the reference year. This means that the law applies, but also that we have lost the reference year in order to enforce land-based growth beyond the law. To those who are thinking about stopping, I am not sure if that is a sensible line, because they end up empty-handed at the time. End of block, Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u5	What the Secretary of State is trying to do now is to repeat the policies of the past few decades. "There are problems; it is difficult; entrepreneurs are entitled to clarity; if we do not do this now, things will get worse." We just played that game a little too long. If this AMvB really were to provide a solution, including for the problems that have been predicted not only in today's CLM report but already before, one could say: it is a nice compromise and the problems are over. By concluding an agreement between the two government parties that do not want to get rid of it, the Secretary of State thus deprives the Chamber of its instruments to exercise its responsibility as co-legislator for this situation. If there were nothing to worry about, the Party for the Animals would have no objection. But there is a lot going on: we foresee a lot of problems. And I can't go along with the Secretary of State's argument that it wouldn't work in time. The referendum law will come into force, but you can also hold the referendum if the law is already in force. So she can let go of that line. We can act quickly; we have seen that before. Why not use the opportunity to solve the problems we already see with the Chambers as co-legislator?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u6	I do object to Mrs Ouwehand's reasoning, because I am not taking away anything from the Chamber. It is really always up to the Chamber to make its own choices. Given my experience in this house, I'm the last one to want to impose anything on the Chamber. I'm just explaining what the consequences are. That's my role, to tell you how it's gonna work out and what one or the other means. The Chamber must decide at the end of the day what it takes responsibility for, just as I do. I am standing here, I have made a proposal and I have already said, as Mr Dijkgraaf pointed out, that if amendments were to result from a majority of the Chamber, I would accept them. I've shown that willingness. I have now repeated here that the House gets the bill the moment the First Chamber says: all is well and well, but we still want a bill. That will be exactly the same proposal as the outcome of this debate. However, I cannot break iron with my hands. The Chamber can ask me a lot, but we have to respect deadlines that I cannot go beyond. This means that a bill will be made at that time. This will start on 1 January 2017. It may be that the AMvB simply enters into force, but if it were to be interrupted, the Chamber would discuss with me a further year on a bill that has actually already entered into force. So let's do it again. If the House suddenly feels otherwise, this is new uncertainty for the sector in particular. I hope not, because I am not going to present anything other than the outcome of this debate. That's my right too; that's how it works. I'm just sketching the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u7	The Secretary of State is right that she doesn't take anything from the Chamber on her own. That is why I also said that the government parties, which have jointly concluded this agreement, agree. With that, the majority of the House has been cut off. So it is also very easy for the Secretary of State to say: if the Chamber wants something else, I am going to do it. Yes, but this compromise has already been devised between the Labour Party and the VVD in the back rooms. My objection is that it narrows down the door that allows the Chamber to take full responsibility for legislation that is actually coming into force. Of course, the Secretary of State only makes one proposal, the majority agrees and that is a fact for the rest of the Chamber. But it is irresponsible, because there are uncertainties in the air and this Chamber wants to avoid problems, and it cannot do so now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u8	Again, I have indicated that I will put a legislative proposal into procedure if necessary; I will just do so. So that's not what the discussion is about. I just think that it is also my right to explain what added value I foresee or not. But if, for reasons of principle, Mrs Ouwehand asks me to re-table the whole story that comes from this debate, but then as a complete legislative proposal rather than as a legislative proposal with an AMvB, I will just do so. The fact that parties have certain views is of course always the case. It's called democracy, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u9	Yeah, that's democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u10	Was signed... My party does indeed have fundamental reasons for doing so. That is also what I indicated in the debate on the dairy law. I don't think you should take care of something that big per AMvB. I have some problems with the Secretary of State's argument that she states that a law cannot enter into force until 1 January 2017. I'm gonna do a quick math. It will be tight, but as with the dairy law, we could have passed the law before 1 January 2016 in the States General. The introduction date can simply be arranged, for example per AMvB. It could be two months later. So I do not understand why the deadlines are being pushed forward. That was my first point. The second point on which I have a question concerns what Mrs Ouwehand has put forward, namely the referendum law. Even if a law has already entered into, that eight-week period can still be observed. If anyone wants a referendum on it, it will.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u11	Once again, you are making a few assumptions here, but I do not think you can make them clear. This legislation is based on calendar years. We've had problems with each other many times, but it's a fact that I can't help either. That is how the system works. This means, for example, that a law cannot enter into force two months after the start of a calendar year. I can predict that if you did, you'd get a special opinion from the Council of State on it, which is: don't do it. So the operative part is, so to speak, already predictable. Firstly, we have to take that into account. Secondly, I would like to point out that I can only table a legislative proposal if I also have an idea of what it should look like. For that, I need this treatment in both chambers. That's fair, I think. Then we go on to say that with legislation we always go through the whole step-by-step plan. Even this AMvB, which is already being discussed here, is unlikely to come back from the Council of State before October. You have to realize that. So you'd have to have a bill with you. You have to deal with this in both Chambers during that period, and you have to take into account the agreements made with each other regarding the eight-week deadline for a referendum law. That's just the way it is. I can't help it. I didn't make it up like that. This is how it works. I'm just trying to outline another route that I think could be workable if you want to get on the path of the bill. So let's not go catch each other in a mock discussion. If you want that law, he'll get there. Then he goes in from 2017 and it is very wise not to stop the AMvB, otherwise you have nothing in that intermediate period.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u12	I find it interesting how the Secretary of State has tried to say a few times that this is a sham discussion and that she merely outlines how the procedures are going. She does not have the exclusive right to those procedures.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u13	Exactly, that's the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u14	We end up making them with each other. The question of those calendar years does not exist exclusively in its policy area. Not so long ago we saw that coming along when it was about rewards. They are also viewed per calendar year. Yet that law came into effect later. The Council of State didn't have a hard time with that. Nor has it caused any legal problems. Of course it is all more difficult, but in the end it is possible to let him enter a little later in that year. This brings with it problems and is not the most chic, but if the political will is there, then it is possible in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u15	Once again, I also had extensive discussions with my lawyers on this subject with the present AMvB. My impatience was great. The sooner he could get in, the better. I have chosen, for many important and sensible reasons, to let him go in by 2016 and to let him have the scope for 2015. That has been done very precisely, for all these reasons of care, also in the direction of the companies involved. It wasn't just done. I have to say here that it is important that we remain very precise. As far as I am concerned, the discussion is not about whether I would be prepared to introduce law or not. I told you, I'm just gonna do that when the First Chamber and your room are in there. That's easy. That's how it works. At the same time, I would like to take your Chamber into account in what that means and how it will work. I also think it is fair to say this now and not later, because we would, of course, have misunderstandings about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u16	In the introduction, the Secretary of State addressed the main thrust of the proposal now before us. She turned that down against proposals that emerged in the Chamber debate at the end of last year. I would very much like to see the Secretary of State also address the principle of solidarity in this general introduction. It would be a good idea for the sector to apply that principle. If I see what's ahead, there's no ceiling anywhere. Companies with a surplus of 50 kilos must meet the same requirements as holdings with 150 kilos of surplus. Now it is: first come, first served. That's very worrying for me. How can we ensure that solidarity in the chosen system is maintained? Is there a role for the government or does the Secretary of State expect everything from the sector and is that real?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u17	First of all, of course, I am very pleased with the concept. I also understand exactly why Mrs Dik-Faber is introducing it. I think she is right that it will also be of great importance for the future. At the same time, we are also trying to introduce this solidarity with the proposal that is now before us, because we are also asking the most of those who are growing the most. But this proposal does not require anything from the people who are growing, but just a little less hard. I drew that equation. Let's call it a cross street. For example, if we were to take a phosphate limit of 50 kilos, which Mrs Dik-Faber will know, that would mean that the upper top layer, about 11%, I say that out of my head, but that's about right, I thought it might grow, but only in soil. The almost 90% of dairy farmers underneath can in theory also grow completely through manure processing. Then I ask: is that solidarity? We have really tried to set up a system with a rod, where you also keep the extensive companies, with up to 20 kilos of phosphate, out of the AMvB in fact. So if you say that we are doing too little for that group, I would like to publicly contradict anyone who says that. I think that with the threshold we have introduced, we are meeting the very group of people in this system who work most extensively. The AMvB does not apply to them; we have tried to do so. Then there will be a completely different problem, which I shall be discussing with the Chamber in the next block. What happens if the limit of the phosphate production ceiling is approached? But even with a hard upper limit in an AMvB you don't send on that story. If you are a good investor and have a very large company and a lot of money, then of course you can buy or rent that land anyway. Even then, you can grow very fast if you have the financial means to do so. It just remains difficult, whatever choice you would make in the AMvB. This does not explicitly send on the phosphate ceiling. That's a dilemma we all run into. That really requires a brake from the sector. In a way, we can help a great deal to achieve this solidarity, but we can never force it to do so at 100%.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u18	My question remains as to why the Secretary of State did not choose not to set a ceiling next to the staggered system, which I can well understand is being introduced now. That ceiling's just not in there, like I already sketched. Companies with a surplus of 50 kilos or 150 kilos per hectare are subject to exactly the same rules. Shouldn't there have been another sample in there? Shouldn't there have been another ceiling in there? I'd like to get a response to that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u19	We have, of course, also looked at the balance in the proposal and at the question of what it ultimately means, for example, for the effect on the land price. That too is very difficult to predict. So, of course, we made a choice in that sense. Every choice you make has a form of arbitraryity in it, that's inevitable. We know that the number of companies with such a high phosphate surplus as you mentioned earlier is really very small. The large group is really underneath that, so it is perhaps just one percent or probably even less of the total number of more than 20,000 dairy farmers involved. You always have to look at where the system has to do the most where it is most needed. I believe that we have achieved a balanced proposal. It is up to your Chamber; it is up to you to consider whether you agree. I'm coming to animal rights. Many of the groups present, which I would like to support, are of course not seeking to introduce animal rights into dairy farming. I also understand very well why, for example in pig farming and the poultry sector, you can see that these animal rights have set a ceiling on the number of animals that may be in the country, but that this has not stopped the intensification of the sector. So I understand very well that people say that this is not necessarily an effective tool for social purposes. Unfortunately, I would add that this is the most effective instrument for the Nitrates Directive. The derogation decision mentions a hard ceiling, 172,9 million kilos. In order to obtain that derogation from the Nitrates Directive, the Netherlands has therefore also had to establish that if that ceiling is reached, a so-called ring will be laid around the sector. It seems to me to be a good thing, because I also understand that the Chamber is not ready with me in this debate, to send a letter to the Chamber, not only on the basis of those figures but also on the basis of the new provisional figures for phosphate production in May. Someone said there are alternatives. I've really weighed that one. Then I'll have to show you why I wouldn't choose that. The Chamber can then again tell me why it thinks it is a bad proposal. I think we should have the debate together in this way. I've made it clear from the start that I really need to do something when we reach that ceiling. This is very unfortunate, but it does mean that production rights must be introduced. Animal rights are then really the most obvious. Why? The moment you introduce a phosphate right, you should also link it to animals. You're missing the feed trail again. So it does not yield anything in substance, because it is actually a disguised form of an animal right. It may sound more sympathetic, but it actually comes down to the same thing. So I would simply like to make this proposal. We're not gonna get out of this together today anyway. The Chamber asks me what the alternatives are and how they would or would not do their job. I'd like to take a look at what I've been thinking about. In it, I will take the possible alternatives that will circulate to show what I choose. We can have that conversation at another time. That seems to me to be a fair approach to the questions and concerns that exist in the Chamber on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u20	Was this the cube?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u21	No, Mr. Chairman. Mr Smaling asked if we would monitor phosphate production and when we would reach the ceiling. As I said, we are indeed monitoring it. The most recent figure dates from January. The provisional production in 2014 was estimated by the CBS at 168 million kilos. I just mentioned the ceiling, 172,9 million kilos. I expect the new provisional figures, which will be final in the autumn, very soon. Mr Geurts asked me if the Commission is asking for production rights. The European Commission asks the Netherlands to comply with the phosphate production ceiling as a condition for maintaining the derogation. I want to, but I don't just want to, because the Chamber wants to. If the ceiling is exceeded, we have to do something to stabilize the number of animals. A ring must then be placed around it, and it is obvious, unfortunately, to allow that to be animal rights. Mrs. Dikkers asked how we can prevent anticipating behavior. I've written to the Chamber before that we'll take care of that. I can do that in the context of the introduction of a system, but also by looking at the moment when we allow it to go into it. I just don't think it's wise to anticipate very much today what it's going to look like. It would therefore be my proposal to discuss this at another time on the basis of the latest figures. We then have a more real picture and we can then determine more precisely whether or not that moment is close. That seems to me to be a more timely and better opportunity. Mr President, that was the end of this block.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u22	I thank the Secretary of State for these answers. What disappoints me is that the Secretary of State has apparently already made her choice. The Secretary of State also says that she will send a letter about the advantages and disadvantages of all alternatives. At least that's how I interpret it. If the Secretary of State has already made her choice, she has made that assessment on the basis of the advantages and disadvantages of those alternatives. That letter must therefore be able to come to the Chamber very quickly, as it seems that this information is already available. Is the Secretary of State prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u23	Yeah, you can. I said: at the moment when the new figures appear. That's May. We are now living at the end of April and "extremely fast" would mean "in May." I hope that will satisfy your request.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u24	When it comes to the beginning of May, it saves a lot, as the summer recess is almost there. We've got to hurry. If I've heard the Secretary of State correctly, all the information is already there. Besides, of course, it's not about nothing. At the same time, I understand what the Secretary of State is saying. I would like an answer to my question as to whether it could be in early May. I would also like to hear confirmation that all possible alternatives will emerge in that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u25	I say two things about this. First of all, I do not know if it can be at the beginning of May. It also has to do with the fact that we really have a few things to do at the moment. I don't know exactly when those numbers will come. They will have to be there first, I think, if I wanted to inform the Chamber about this. I'd like it to depend on that. Secondly, here's what I'm saying. We have, of course, looked at a number of things ourselves, but there will always be people who will come up with a new alternative. However, not every alternative is real. You can also say: we just do it retroactively. We have already sent such proposals to the Chamber, such as the grazing livestock units. However, these are very significant interventions for existing companies. Here too, the concept of "alternative" will bring about some form of subjectivity, so to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u26	We are in the response under the heading "animal rights' in achieving the phosphate ceiling. I welcome the clear explanation given by the Secretary of State: this law and the AMvB do not control phosphate production. Then we have that clear to all parties. I still miss the answer given by the Secretary of State, and I am very concerned about that, the point I raised at the end of my first term: the reason why the phosphate ceiling is hanging over us like a dark cloud is that Brussels is frustrating our innovation. As far as my group is concerned, innovation is at the top of my agenda, but I also hope that there will be a number of groups. We must pay attention to this before we simply surrender to animal rights or any other form.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u27	I think there are two different things going on. Yes, our innovation is frustrated. That's right. I agree with Mrs Lodders. I would like to say a few words about this at the end. I very much agree that it is not good to explain, I shall say very diplomatically, that we should not regain phosphate and not use our mineral concentrate as an alternative to fertilizer, while there is so much misery in feeding fertilizer from elsewhere, from other parts of the world. I think we are broadly in agreement on this. That is something else other than the suggestion that this will prevent us from reaching the phosphate ceiling. I think that has a slightly different background. We need to make sure that a possible second derogation, namely for mineral concentrate, is in place with a great deal of force. I'm working on that, too. I have also replied extensively to the questions raised by the House. That is absolutely necessary, but it has not simply eliminated the conditions for this derogation. I'd like to add one more thing. At the time, the debate on obtaining a derogation also caused a great deal of emotion in the Netherlands: in the sector, in the Chamber and in a lot of other people. I have to say that to this day my German colleague and my Belgian colleague have not even been able to secure that derogation. In that respect, I count my blessings every day, as far as I am permitted.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u28	That's the Secretary of State's right. We too are very pleased that this derogation has been brought in. However, I would remind you that the phosphate ceiling was set ten years ago. Over the past ten years, there have been a lot of developments and innovation has progressed with leaps and bounds. Brussels is frustrated that we can use the end products. Thus, in the run-up to the last derogation period, the Netherlands as a Member State should have used this even more firmly. I appreciate the Secretary of State's strong arm. I see the effort. I also see the answer. But, of course, it's as crooked as the creature can be that we can't anticipate something that was set up ten years ago. Look what happened to the chicken dung. It is almost 100% out of the market and so there is no phosphate left in the country, to put it briefly. It is only one objective of Brussels: to keep a grip on the number of animals in the Netherlands. I believe that we, the Netherlands, have an interest in the growth of the sector and in its economic position, but I think that this is even more important in terms of food security in the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u29	But we always say from the cabinet that this must be done within the environmental limits. This is not just about phosphate, but also about a number of other issues that are of course also on the agenda. We agree on this, I think it is important that, looking at how we are now reacting to the possibilities of recovering phosphate and how we are dealing with a subject such as mineral concentrate, this is very difficult to digest from the point of view of recycling. Mrs Lodders also rightly points out that this creates unnecessary additional environmental pressure, mostly elsewhere in the world. Believe me, that is one of the things that I am putting forward in Brussels too, because this is very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u30	I'm sorry, but I had to smile for a second when Mrs Lodder said the VVD was concerned about food security in the world. I would ask the Secretary of State to confirm what Mrs Lodder is constantly saying: this AMvB does not send on phosphate. The Secretary of State just said that a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u31	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u32	Behind that comma, of course, we still have to be at risk of breaking through the phosphate ceiling. It seems clear to me that Mrs Lodders understands today that it is a real scenario that these animal rights are coming. I'm trying to help the Secretary of State, because I can see the adversaries when those animal rights get there. That is my first question: can the Secretary of State clearly state what she expects on that point, so that Mrs Lodder does not have to pretend that she did not see it coming? I have one more question. I am very curious to see what role the social goals have in the consideration of the Secretary of State in drawing up the letter of alternatives to animal rights. After all, she said that animal rights do nothing for the social purposes, but for the nitrates directive, which would allow you to retain the derogation. Does this mean that her consideration is based solely on that? How hard does it weigh for the Secretary of State who has social goals of circulars, land-boundness, animal welfare and food security in the world? Can we make that clear?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u33	I do not think we can do the whole next debate right now. I hope that will not be necessary, as I have always said. However, I have not ruled that out from the outset either. I've always been clear about what's going on. I have always said that it seems very awful to me when that has to happen. However, in such a situation, when we reach that ceiling, I think it is inevitable that we should take a very firm measure. That's just what has always been said, and that's what I'm sticking with. I would also like to explain why I come to that conclusion. I would also like to look with you at what alternatives you might have considered and why, in my case, you may or may not not choose the alternatives. I'm open about that; that's no secret. These other objectives are also important, but when it comes to achieving and maintaining derogations, it will have to be at least regulated that we maintain the objectives of the nitrates directive. I'm assuming this will weigh in with everyone. Just as those social goals are important to me, a very large part of society and the Chamber, so is that situation. That doesn't change for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u34	Okay, so the conclusion is that the ability of the Netherlands to pollute more than is technically justified by nitrate policy is the most important thing for the Secretary of State. This derogation simply means that we are allowed to do more than has actually been agreed. If we do anything in dairy farming, the most important thing for the Secretary of State is to maintain that exemption and its social goals are to keep dairy farming more extensive, more land-based, more grazing and loops. That's what I hear her say.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u35	No, I do not think that is fair, because all these subjects are also on the agenda today. On each of these subjects I show where my ambitions lie. If I may refer to the subject of grazing, my ambition is not small. It may not be enough in your view, but I do not see a standstill on this subject, however difficult it may be. I want to move forward, not just now, but also next year and the following year. That is my ambition, on which there should be no misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u36	As far as the PVV is concerned, Brussels can take advantage of the Nitrates Directive. But unfortunately we don't have a majority here, so from there I have to act best for a second. As far as animal rights are concerned, I think the wording of Mr Geurts is better: production rights. The PVV is in the process of incorporating these rights into the Constitution. Here we must talk about production rights. The Secretary of State says he's gonna come up with a response. When's that? We want to receive this response together with the alternatives on 18 May, right after the May recess, so that we can have a debate on this by the last week of May at the latest. It may be possible for the Registry to take account of the fact that this is dealt with well before the summer recess and that it is not done in between, as is always the case with this type of subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u37	That is what you need to include in the regulation of work.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u38	The Secretary of State is here now. That is why I ask her to send that letter to the Chamber immediately after the May recess. She can just promise that. I want to know what the alternatives are. For example, we do not want to go to animal rights. I would like to discuss this with the sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u39	I just don't know when those numbers will come. I just don't have that date right now. I guess we should check that out. These figures seem to me to be relevant, because I just want to give them to you. We should then just find out now and let you know briefly in writing when we expect to have those figures, after which you will receive the letter. I can do this now to keep the atmosphere good. I would like to say that this happens naturally, but I just don't know when those figures will come. I just need to know. I think those figures are coming in May, so we're really going to recess or no recess recess isn't a holiday, I've always learned to work on that letter. You can count on it. I just don't dare say that that letter is there at some point, because I need to know when I'm gonna get those numbers. I'll check it for you, and I'll give it to you in writing. We can certainly find out within a few days; you will receive a letter about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u40	I was just shocked by the answer given by the Secretary of State when she talked about the phosphate ceiling and said: then we will move on to production rights. There are alternatives. In 2008-2010, the sectors also threatened to reach the phosphate ceiling. They have taken action, after which we have not had that threat for seven years without the introduction of production rights for dairy cows. Isn't it better to write down the alternatives and not go straight to dairy production rights?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u41	Again, everyone here has their own responsibility. One of the alternatives is that they have their feed track in order. I can give you that alternative now. You know that, don't you? But then you'll have to send it with each other. If you don't, you're gonna get to a ceiling real fast. That's a wonderful alternative, for which I'm signing. But it has to be done. Again, it's not like I'd like to do this, not at all. For a lot of reasons, I do not think that this is an ideal system at all, where I am thinking of investments which, as far as I am concerned, are more sustainable than production rights, just to put it in Mr Graus's terms. We agree on the content of this, but there will come a time when a different consideration will have to be made. I'll have to fix it, and so will the Chamber, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u42	I conclude by concluding that production rights would be a Dutch internal mission, which does not come from Brussels. I also conclude that there is also room to look carefully at alternatives and not to go straight to production rights in dairy farming.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u43	You're a rich man, really. The Commission says to the Netherlands: if you want to maintain a derogation, you have to put a ring around your livestock, in this case. You can have all kinds of interpretation discussions about this, but at the end of the day you can see clearly what you want. Then it's just a matter of choosing or sharing for all of us: do you want the derogation or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u44	One more comment, Mr Smaling. Then we'll go to the next cup.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u45	I'm trying to get a little bit of a picture of what a ring like that looks like. For example, the maximisation of milk production per hectare is also a ring, although perhaps it is a more abstract ring than the Secretary of State has in mind? At the same time, you connect your maximum to hectares and thus also to grazing. That seems to me to be an even more attractive road than animal rights with which we will soon have Olympic DDR cows in the stables.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u46	In such a situation, proportionality will always be considered in relation to the existing situation. Then it will also be assessed whether companies that simply cannot do so for all kinds of reasons are wronged. It is therefore, unfortunately, even less easy to do so in practice. Once again, we can hold this discussion in theory, but that does not seem to me to make any sense for the moment. I think it is really better to discuss this with the Chamber on the basis of the current figures and a letter, which outlines what we are all talking about here, perhaps a somewhat more friendly wording, as well as what the Commission has said about it and so on. There's a lot of footage about that last life, and I get it. That is what we should talk about in an open atmosphere. I do not want to pretend that there is not a hard line somewhere, which somehow will find its way in the sector very annoyingly and far-reachingly. Then we're really working together to throw sand in people's eyes. We shouldn't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u47	We certainly should not do that, but I would like, like a number of colleagues, if there were to be an objective comparison of the possibilities. I would like to table a motion on this later. Then I hope this leads to something for most people here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u48	We see that in your second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u49	I'll just wait and see. Again, the more information and the more objectivity there is, the better, I think. So I never object to that in advance. I'll be at the meadow hall. Mr Smaling also asked Mr Klaver about how to achieve more grazing if you do not include that in legislation. As I said in the letter on behalf of the cabinet, it is the ambition to increase the share of pasture to 80% by 2020. That is not an easy task. It'll be a hell of a tour. So I am talking about this with the partners of the Sustainable Dairy Chain. We can also do a few things ourselves, and I would very much like to do them. I'll make a million dollars available for the next five years. The requirements of the Maatlat Sustainable Cattle Farming are made more accessible to the grazing farms. We support expertise promotion, and we consult with the provinces to assess their role in the Covenant Weidegang. For example, they can also encourage lot exchange and promote grazing in the management regime of agricultural nature management. My ambition is clear and I therefore want to conduct the consultation with the sector. We will have to discuss together how we are going to achieve this ambition. The partners of the Covenant Weidegang will meet on 16 June. It seems to me appropriate to agree here that I should inform the Chamber about the progress made. Mrs Dikkers asked whether it might not be wise to set an intermediate goal with each other. If that could be a helpful tool, it would be obvious to use it. I also think it is right to simply send the progress of the consultations as we are doing to the Chamber so that the Chamber can watch with me how this consultation is going. It is also important to note here that grazing is important for me as a earning model. In fact, I believe that the increases of the large milk producers may create a much more powerful attraction for promoting grazing than we could ever imagine here in terms of legislation and regulations. That is not the case with the following fact. Should we confront people who do not now have a house plot but a business, for example with closure? It's not my wish, but imagine putting in the law that it's 100% pasture, what does that mean for the existing companies and what is it going to do in legal terms? I think it's good to put the pressure on it. I believe that the Chamber has done a great deal. I think that pressure is being felt, too. It is true that not everyone is enthusiastic about that idea of increasing ambition, but I think that people are even less enthusiastic about the idea of putting it into law. So maybe now we can take a few steps together. At least that seems to me to be a starting point. Mrs Dikkers asks if you should stop subsidies for companies that do not use pastures now. This cannot be done within the framework of the common agricultural policy. You can't exclude companies from that in advance. What we do do, however, is that we have written in the letter that we are going to focus the subsidy tools for sustainable stables more on companies that use grazing. But to exclude someone who, for example, wants to promote a huge sustainability gain in a stable in advance, is not proportionate in that sense. I need to be clear about that. Then I come to the next block: the bottlenecks and the loops. I shall begin with a commitment to Mr Geurts and Mr Graus. They said that this would, of course, raise questions; what exactly does this regulation mean? In this connection, Mr Smaling referred to a few technical questions that were asked yesterday at the Farm. I understand. I also think it would be wise if Mr Geurts and Mr Graus indicated that we should set up a point of contact where people with questions about the implementation of the law and the AMvB can go. I think that the people of that window should also be able to co-operate with companies in order to solve, within the legal framework, problems or issues they run into. I also think that today we should make it clear to each other what the whole concept means. However, I would like to avoid the suggestion that anyone who is limited by the AMvB is, as it were, a problem and therefore needs to be helped. The consequence of introducing land-based growth simply means something. If not, you don't have a bucket but a colander on the table. It's important to establish that. So I would like to make a window; I would like to do that at my ministry. It is therefore not a special ministerial point of contact. I will simply open a window in my department, together with the RVO, where dairy farmers can address themselves. This means that it is also about the group of people who within the AMvB are defined as troubles; with them one can get started. Mr Geurts, Mrs Lodders and Mr Dijkgraaf have asked us what we do with troubles. We have already established that we are imposing restrictions on groundless growth. That is the consequence of the AMvB. The fact that companies are limited does not mean that they are a problem. After all, it is what we intend to do with this. It's what the AMvB does. We have just kept companies that grew groundless in 2014, out of reach of the AMvB. So there are no problems due to growth in 2014. In addition, in the AMvB we have named one category in particular as a problem. These are the companies that entered into financial commitments to process manure before 7 November 2014. I believe that these two exceptions are justified and sufficient. Because what we shouldn't want is for us to set the rules for everyone but for everyone who is then affected by those rules, for example through the term "hardness clause" to be able to get out of it. What am I looking at? I have asked this once again in the run-up to this debate. My attitude is always that I really want to be generous, but I've learned here, also by asking how things have gone in the past, that you really get coffee with that if you don't watch out. I'm just gonna say it real flat. For example, when the superlevy was introduced, it was thought that a hardness clause could be used to resolve problems. In concrete terms, this led to everyone affected by the rules becoming, rightly or unjustly, a problem. The result of introducing the story was that more than 20,000 objections were submitted. To this day, things are still going on. I would very much like to prevent this history from repeating itself. I hope that's what the Chamber wants with me. This requires a clear framework, as our lawyers say. So I would like to talk to the Chamber about the rules that we are laying down and about which companies should remain outside the scope of the AMvB, but that makes things complicated enough. I would also like to answer Mr Geurts' question as to whether I expect a lot of procedures. If we succeed in achieving a clear framework, I do not expect it. It is precisely the creation of space or lack of clarity in your regulations that evokes a huge amount of legal procedures. That's the experience of my people from the past. This will, of course, also be supported by the sector. You can't tell each other on the one hand that it has to be ground-bound, and on the other hand help anyone who now encounters a problem. Then you're actually putting the horse behind the cart. Mr Dijkgraaf referred to the first protocol of the ECHR, but there is no question of expropriation. I would like to emphasise that. Neither dairy nor stables are taken from farms. The AMvB regulates the dairy farms from the moment it enters into force, and that is permitted. Recourse to the ECHR can only lead to a successful claim for damages when it comes to disproportionate regulation leading to an individual and excessive burden. That is not the case here. Mr Geurts mentioned the example of companies that have invested in stable facilities. Entrepreneurs who entered into commitments before 7 November 2014 are exempt from the extra ground requirement. So that's what we're already meeting them with. Of course, there will be cases in practice of entrepreneurs who have invested first and foremost in the expansion of production and now find that they also need to invest extra in land, for example. During the treatment of the law, we have indicated that this is a wish that lives with you and that has an effect, especially for entrepreneurs who do not have that land. That is also what we are aiming for, otherwise we must not take ground-based growth as a starting point. Mr Dijkgraaf asked what would happen if companies could not buy land. It doesn't necessarily need to be bought. I think it's important to say that here. You have to have it at your disposal, but it can also be by lease or lease. In the end, dairy farmers are, of course, responsible for making decisions about the development of their farm, drawing up the farm plans and making investment decisions. They must therefore also be aware of the fact that it is not only a question of setting up a stable, but also of considering the impact on other parts of the business, for example having sufficient possibilities for manure disposal. Mr Geurts and Mrs Dik-Faber asked if you could opt for a reference year. Indeed, the AMvB works differently for companies that develop at a different pace. This is due to the choice of a reference year, but also to the fact that we have chosen 2014 to avoid a lot of troubles, because this brings them beyond the scope of the AMvB. We are dealing with the desire of everyone here in the Chamber and with the desire of the sector to grow and steer on the ground. It can't be that you feel that way and that you also want to help anyone who comes up against it. I just can't. If you change the reference year or let entrepreneurs choose for themselves, apart from the fact that it brings with it much more uncertainty, that does not change the fact that it will always work differently for companies because it depends on their individual situation. I really am not in favour of this, because I think it will greatly increase uncertainty and uncertainty. On the contrary, we have tried to help the group of entrepreneurs that grew in 2014 by saying that it must not be grounded. It was meant to be a concession. If you take that away again, you're gonna have a completely different problem if you're gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u50	Mr Smaling has asked why there is no steeper stem. In the answers to Mrs Dik-Faber's questions, I have already said a few things about why we have made a different choice. Then I'm gonna be on the circle. In doing so, Mr Geurts suggested that although he did not intend to do so, the Secretary of State did not want to do so. I want to. I have said to representatives of the sector and of the social partners: let us really get serious together and, as far as I am concerned, look at how we can strengthen these regional loops on a project basis. These consultations will take place in the near future. Mrs. Lodders said we need to look at what's possible. She gave it to her, and I appreciate that she understands that it cannot be that land, so to speak, is going to count for several dairy farmers as something they can take on, because then you have a leak in the system. We have to be careful with that. In response to Mr Smaling, therefore, I say that this is a reason why we are really careful with previous amendments from his side that were circulating on them. You really have to be careful that you have a piece of land on paper used by several dairy farmers to count to bring down their phosphate surplus. If you get too much space there and don't have a closing system, you might have managed the ground bonding on paper top, with a loop in it, but in practice it is a leak in the regulations. It is therefore very difficult to maintain. That's why the law states that you have to have some kind of control. It should also be visible on paper. For the rest, there will undoubtedly be a great deal of opportunity to look at how we can further promote these cycles. Everyone, from left to right, agrees on that. So we're gonna love to do that, but not as an escape or to get out of something. In my view, then, I would also go against what the Chamber is trying to achieve. That's the baseline for me. I'm not gonna get out of that. For the rest, all creativity is welcome. This also applies to thinking about young farmers. It is also important for them to be able to use the loops well. They've always been involved in all the conversations. I'm fine with extra thinking, but we can't get out of the box. Mrs. Lodders has asked me to enter the conversation. I hope I have shown that I am very willing to do so. Mrs Dik asked whether within the narrative of regional flows and the phosphate surplus there is room for extensive companies. She asks if there is anything I can do about it, so to speak. The problem is that we control total phosphate production at the moment that would be the issue. The question of whether companies are extensive or intensive is irrelevant in that situation. This is one of the tricky things we run into. I'm getting to the "other" block now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u51	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the commitment to the window. I assume I am doing this partly on behalf of Mr Geurts. I'd like to go a little wider than just the troubles. I have a reason for my questions about the AMvB and its impact on soil density and manure policy, because even the trade unions and the representatives of the interests are not fully aware of what these consequences will look like. If the representatives of the interests don't know, the Ministry of EZ should be of service to them anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u52	I can be quite clear about that: I say so. I've seen this, too. It seems to me very sensible to help answer the questions raised by the law on technical and practical matters, in addition to the concerns raised by the law. I also consider this point of contact to be very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u53	I would like to thank the Secretary of State on behalf of Mr Geurts and Mr Dijkgraaf. With a Secretary of State like that, there will be no motion left.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u54	But you did get what you wanted, Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u55	I have another example in the context of the problem regulation. Perhaps the Secretary of State would like to reflect on this and indicate where this type of entrepreneur can report. An entrepreneur with 70 cows built a stable for 110 cows in 2012 assuming that he can grow there very quietly by his own growth. In the context of animal health, he opts for his own crop and not for the purchase of livestock. How does the Secretary of State look at these developments, in particular because this farmer has not been able to anticipate an AMvB?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u56	That is too general an example. It also depends on the phosphate surplus achieved by growth. Again, in principle the AMvB applies. That's the simplest answer. If someone in such a situation remains below 20 kilos of phosphate surplus, there is no problem at all. Otherwise, he will have to invest in land through lease or through purchase. That is the consequence if you agree that something must be ground-bound.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u57	I agree. That was also one of my objections to groundboundness at the end of last year. This may be a general example, but such examples will be fairly common. Does the Secretary of State fear that these entrepreneurs can rely on a principle and expropriation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u58	No, I don't think so. In reply to a question from Mr Dijkgraaf, I also made it clear why I do not expect that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u59	What is the State Secretary's objection if a farmer owns land but does not use it and as a dairy farmer who uses land for crop cultivation and also pays the manure on it? Then we've closed a beautiful regional cycle, haven't we? Surely it should be possible to realize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u60	That can be done, but a number of conditions must be met. One of those conditions is that the dairy farmer must have a title on that land. One of the problems that can be encountered is that there can be no double use of European subsidies. You can't do that. It is not the case that this cycle is made impossible. That is why it is good to talk to the sector about the question: how can it be? That route isn't completely closed, that's not the point, but it has to meet conditions. We want to avoid that there are a lot of dairy farmers who all say that they have a title on that land, when in practice perhaps only one of them has a title. That's gotta be verifiable. We should not create a system in which many dairy farmers have no effect on the AMvB through the regional cycle story, for example, because they have an arrangement with a farmer who has not been written down in the past. You want to prevent companies from growing ground-bound, as you say. I agree, but then you have to face the consequences of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u61	A clear answer from the Secretary of State. I mention the case, because I get reactions in my mailbox that people miss the principle of the regional cycle in the AMvB. These dairy farms have been operating this way for years and would like to continue it. That is why I would like to bring this to the attention of the Secretary of State. We tabled an amendment on this last year, but unfortunately it did not. I really think we should pursue such a principle.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u62	Yeah, me too. I agree with you that we must pursue this principle. That is why we have established with the sector that it is necessary to look further on a project-based basis to see how all this can be done and not why it cannot be done. There are a few rules. With the amendment hanging over the market, it threatened to be crossed. One of the principles is that several dairy farmers should not insert the same piece of land into the phosphate reference system. That is smart, but it is not good, because it gives you a system where on paper you promote ground-boundness, whereas in practice those farmers are not ground-bound at all, because that land belongs to another. We have to be careful of that. And there should be no double European subsidies on the same piece of land. You can solve all that practically. You can really do that with each other. Let's do that in that project. I think everyone agrees on that principle that you mention. Let's see what we can do. The Chamber asked me to do that, and I'm happy to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u63	There is an exemption for farmers who entered into an obligation for manure treatment in 2014. I have the category that built a stable in 2014, but not furnished. He doesn't get an exemption. I honestly don't understand why that distinction is made.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u64	You can build a stable, but you also have to meet the conditions of the AMvB in order to grow. The difference is that during manure treatment one always knew that you can grow either 100% in manure processing, or partly in soil. We have made a change in this, but the point that, apart from building that stable, one has to meet the obligations of the law in one way or another has not changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u65	I get that, only the point is that they built that stable in 2014. They had not yet come to the choice of land or processing, because the stable had not yet been populated. The plan was to do that in 2015. So they have not yet been able to make that choice and are now being punished afterwards. For example, if they had populated the stable in 2014, they would have opted for 100% manure treatment and were neatly exempted. Purely because of the timing this category has a problem and the other one does not.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u66	That is not entirely true, because the reference for the phosphate surplus starts in 2013. It's the same for everyone. In the AMvB we just tried to help the group that grew in 2014 but didn't know it had to be by land at the time. Otherwise, we would have seen this whole category as a bottleneck. We are now really trying to do what is possible to accommodate people who have invested in, for example, manure processing but who have now fallen outside the AMvB. It sounds annoying, but when someone invests in a stable, in Mr Smaling's words, that is, of course, a bit of the risk that an entrepreneur has, because he knew at that time that a law came up with further demands to do something with land or with manure treatment. He just didn't know what the ratio was between the amount of manure and the soil he was allowed to have. We'll do something for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u67	Let me turn to Mr Dijkgraaf's point, because he no longer has any possibility of interruption at the moment. I want to support him. I quote from a letter from the Cabinet that "milk farmers only after the submission of the letter of amendment to the Legislative proposal responsible growth dairy farming on 7 November 2014 (Room 33 979, no. 17) could have known that further provisions on land-related growth would be made." This is a support for what Mr Dijkgraaf says. When farmers were investing in stones for the collection of their cows, they could not know that they would now be getting demands on extra land.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u68	We have also always established that there was Mr Geurts at........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ It can't be that we're gonna name every agricultural entrepreneur who's gonna suffer consequences as a bottleneck. I can assure Mr Geurts that, if you do that through the stone route as he suggests, we are going back on our way to thousands and thousands of troubles. Then he lost his own condition of land-based growth for a very important part. I wonder why we would still have an AMvB, because if it doesn't hit anyone, it doesn't have any effect either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u69	This is at the heart of the problem. People have invested and currently have no room to invest in land. I have submitted a number of cases in my written contribution. They're synonymous with a lot of others. I conclude that these cases must be brought before the courts. I think they have a great chance of being honored anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u70	I really don't think so, because when these people started investing, they knew that there would always be further demands on growth. This was already known from the letters of the cabinet. Just putting down a stable and thinking you're there with it is really naive. So I'm really convinced it won't be. Not out of unwillingness, but really out of concern, I think that if we now all add categories based on, for example, barn investments to the troubles, all those thousands of people who think they are covered will give us a title to actually get them right. But the law is clear, and I really don't think that this law causes the judge to make a certain kind of judgment about it. I also say to Mr Geurts: yes, there will be procedures, whether supported by the sector or not. That will undoubtedly happen; we have always seen that. So I'm guessing this is going to happen again. But we can help to keep all these procedures a little modest by being very clear, including in the regulations, about what can and cannot be seen as a bottleneck.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u71	Let me give you the example of two farmers. They will build in early 2014. The one populated in 2014 is stable and the other is not. The first one opts for 100% manure processing and the second one says: I don't have to make that choice yet, because I can't do that until 2015. The first one gets an exemption, but the second one doesn't. They have chosen at the same time with the same knowledge of the policy. Only one of them got lucky he's already populated his stable. That is an unequal treatment of equal cases, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u72	No, it is not, because that one has the problem that it has chosen a route that we have now closed together. That's the difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u73	Because he was able to make that choice in time, he has great advantages over the latter, because it suddenly has to meet all the requirements.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u74	That's always gonna be the case. If we're going to designate everyone as an exception, I don't need to explain to you what the consequences are. I can't do that. So you're gonna have to take a reasonable look at it. In order to prevent a lot of extra people from getting into trouble, we deliberately kept the year 2014 out of the scope of the AMvB in terms of the requirements for the purchase of land. If we had not done so, we would have caused problems to an even larger group with retroactive effect. So we didn't do that. In addition, we have looked at who has already invested financially and committed to the route that is now closed. It has been agreed that we will grant an exemption on the basis of evidence. I understand the pressure to stretch that even further, but then you have to accept that the whole story of per se ground-bound growth is becoming more and more a paper story. It can't be. In practice, this will indeed have significance. Mrs Lodders is right to say that this is precisely the reason why she did not want to choose 'in splendor isolation', which I do not mean wrongly, because she has seen this and wishes to point it out. So if you choose a different route, land-based growth, there will be consequences, including for people who have invested in stables. If we point them out as an exception, I can already tell you that we're getting thousands of cases. I'm really not in favour of that, and I don't need it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u75	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u76	Mr Graus asked who is going to maintain. That's NVWA and RVO. The same applies to the AMvB requirements. Mr Dijkgraaf asked about BEX farmers and flexibility. Entrepreneurs are required to account for all obligations under the Fertilisers Act at the end of a calendar year. In order to avoid surprises, entrepreneurs will have to plan and assess their mineral management well. When you, as an entrepreneur, start to operate on the edge of the cut, sometimes almost literally and figuratively, you will, of course, run the risk that your responsibility will not come true at the end of the year. That is, again here, an entrepreneurial risk. But it is the responsibility of an entrepreneur to send it. If we were to introduce a margin of error right now, we'd be in real trouble. I don't want to do that. Mr Graus asked if I could give an update on the implementation of the motion he tabled on the recovery of phosphates. I sent a letter to your Chamber on 24 February last. We have recently amended the Implementing Decision Fertilisers Act. This has made it possible to market phosphate fertilizers released from waste water treatment as reclaimed phosphate. I would also like to stress that the recovered phosphate from, for example, the burning of poultry manure and sewage sludge is included in the European Fertilisers Regulation, which Mrs Lodders also mentioned. That is what we are doing and we agree that it is also very much needed. Mrs. Lodders asked about the land prices. They're rising. Of course, I am willing to include the developments in dairy farming and the impact of the law and the AMvB in the regular evaluation of the Fertilisers Act. In addition, I will consider, in consultation with the LEI, whether we can monitor this land price development every year. I think it's pretty good to get that in the picture, too. The next review of the Fertilisers Act is expected in summer 2016. The last question, last but not least, was from Mr Graus. Can we stimulate the dry bed for cows from manure? Yes, we do this through the support of the practical network "Mest distinct, opportunity for bed and fertilization."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u77	There's another motion I had left on the dung bed. The cows like to lie on it. That's true. A farmer checked it out. I have two short questions. I asked, of course, about control and enforcement because of all food scandals, and we, too, put pressure on the Secretary of State and NVWA. Fair is fair. I am now concerned that other controls and enforcement might get in the way of this. My question is: does the NVWA still have sufficient capacity to do so? My final question, at least for today, is about phosphate recovery. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the commitment and letter I have received. But it's also about storage, of course. In view of the fact that China no longer wants to supply us with phosphates and Morocco's phosphate mines are being depleted, we will still have to do something about phosphate storage in our country. We need them for oxygen extraction for humans and animals. I would have liked that question to have been answered. You don't have to do that today, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u78	Mr Graus has reminded me of this last point on many occasions. I have always responded to this by saying that it is a bit of a question whether it should be just a government issue or whether we could perhaps let business take up the issue as well. I think it is right that Mr Graus should draw attention to this. I don't already have the solution, but I promise him I'll keep thinking about it. If I see anything I think we can do with it, I'll get back to you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u79	I have one final comment to make. It's really important. It's a primary need for life. Is it possible to ensure that the issue is discussed in the Council of Ministers? I know that the Secretary of State is not one of them, but perhaps she can make sure that the point is raised. The issue is still underexplored, but it will be very important for the future of our country.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u80	I think that's fine. If it's necessary, I'll always be there. I will look into how we can deal with this. I am going to think about whether this should be discussed in the Council of Ministers or whether I am going to organise something else to get this issue more on the agenda. So I'll come back to that one more time. I still owe Mr Graus an answer to his first question. Enforcement capacity is always exciting. We've put extra capacity on the fertilizers. It also depends on cooperation from the sector itself whether we can get a system in order, which will also make it easier to maintain it. So that's what we have to do together. That is quite difficult, also for the organisations involved. I predict that we will discuss this subject again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u81	In the first term, the Lodders stables were discussed. I would like to say to Mr Graus that there are a lot of beautiful examples of this manure bed at those Lodder stables. I have a brief specific question on monitoring. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the commitment to land prices. However, we already have a reasonable view of this. I would like to link that commitment to ground mobility and its significance. Can the Secretary of State indicate if that will be taken? I think that is a more specific question within the framework of the law and the AMvB.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u82	We're gonna do our best. I just need to see if we have any good instruments for that. If that's possible, we will.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u83	I think that is too open a commitment. I think it is crucial to be able to monitor the effects of this law. This is not just about land prices, but also about mobility. When we talk about regional loops and the ground-boundness with all kinds of other social desires, it is important to see what this law does with ground mobility.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u84	I'm still hesitant, not because I wouldn't want to, but because I just need to know if we can get a picture of that already. I need to know if there is enough data available to really make sense of that. I know about the prices. I will come back to mobility in the second term. Then we can have a little back-up first. I know what you're talking about, but I don't always know everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u85	That's disappointing, Secretary of State!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u86	Yeah, that's painful.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u87	I'm also gonna try to play away motions. Mr Graus managed to do the same just now. I have another question about the Belgian system of main destination and other land use destinations. Would the Secretary of State specifically like to involve the Belgian system in looking at the regional cycles and the considerations involved?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u88	I want to look at that, but I would point out that there is something clear in the laws about ownership or control. I don't know the example myself. If that's an interesting example, we should just take it with us. Maybe I can get rid of the motion like this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u89	Then I'm not going to file the motion on that point. That's gonna save you. The answer to our written questions did not bring that point to light. We serve the same purpose. It must be clear which land belongs to which company in which year. That is what the Belgians have arranged on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u90	Despite a few motions which have been tabled, we shall proceed to the second deadline, with two minutes' speaking time, including the reading of motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u91	Okay, let's take a look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u92	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the as always clear answer. I will leave a number of matters to the colleagues in the First Chamber when the Secretary of State is there. I'm going to file motions. One of them is about putting a top on production when companies are too intensive. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the present AMvB still allows half the most intensive dairy farms to grow landless;]] [[calls on the Government to allow only full land-based growth for the most intensive dairy farms with a phosphate surplus of more than 100 kilograms per hectare,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Smaling. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33979-77]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u93	My second motion concerns the grazing. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is desirable that farms that are going to have to keep more dairy cows and purchase this land in accordance with the present AMvB (grazing land) should actually use it for grazing;]] [[calls on the Government to regulate the use of land for grazing in the current AMvB dairy farming or in the law transposing this AMvB,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas animal rights may have disadvantages for dairy farming, for example for animal welfare;]] [[Whereas other options are also possible in addition to animal rights, such as the maximum number of litres per hectare, animal licences, phosphate rights, phosphate permits or the introduction of grazing livestock units;]] [[calls on the Government to add and reduce the above options on relevant criteria and to submit the outcome to the Chamber before the summer,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Smaling. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33979-78]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Smaling. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33979-79]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u94	Mr. Chairman. I have a motion less than Mr Smaling. Thank you for the answer given by the Secretary of State in this debate. As far as we are concerned, there are two motions left. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to allow dairy farms to choose between the reference years 2013 and 2014 for the determination of the dairy phosphate reference,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Geurts. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33979-80]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u95	I think I can already guess that the cabinet's advice will be "dissuade', but we still have a few days before Tuesday to see with a few cases whether we can still get the cabinet to "judge Chamber'. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Cabinet wishes to facilitate regional loops;]] [[calls on the government, regional manure disposal, within 30 kilometres of the farm, not to regard this as a surplus of dairy phosphate and to include it in the law,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Geurts and Mr Dijkgraaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33979-81]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u96	In conclusion, the Christian Union and the SGP will also table a number of motions signed on our behalf.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u97	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is killed in the animals and in the manure. Getting livestock growth responsibly simply doesn't work. I say that a lot, but I have to do that today. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the General Administrative Measure does not in any way provide any guarantee of real land-based and grazing;]] [[calls on the Government to withdraw the General Management Measure on land-based growth in dairy farming,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government is working on a bill to introduce animal rights in order to limit phosphate production when the national phosphate ceiling is reached;]] [[noting that, according to experts, this ceiling will be reached in the short term because the current legal frameworks do not restrict production and there is rapid growth in the dairy sector;]] [[Considering that it is the government's ambition to achieve social goals, such as the closure of cycles, ground-boundness, grazing and better animal welfare;]] [[calls on the government to send in the draft law in preparation not only for phosphate but also for achieving the social goals set,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that research carried out by the Centre for Agriculture and the Environment shows that about 900 dairy farms have already been licensed;]] [[calls on the Government to take a preparatory decision declaring a moratorium on the construction of dairy farms and to make this decision known to provinces and municipalities as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33979-82]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33979-83]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33979-84]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u98	Finally, an amending motion, should my first motion not be adopted. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the primary objective of the Implementing Decision Fertiliserswet for the responsible growth of dairy farming is to ensure the soil-related nature of dairy farming;]] [[calls on the Government to amend the Implementing Decision Fertilisers Act in such a way that the land belonging to the holding and required as a condition for further expansion of the holding is within 10 kilometres of the holding, so that the land can be used for grazing, thereby promoting the soil-related nature of the dairy sector, and to regulate this by adding the new phrase "within 10 kilometres of the holding' to Article 70a (1) (a), (b) and (c) of the Decision,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33979-85]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u99	This was especially for Mr Dijkgraaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u100	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for answering the questions raised. I am also pleased that she has gone into the process in detail. It has become clear from a brief debate of interruption that we may not think the same thing, but I am very glad that she indicated that, at the time when the Lower House or the Upper House would ask for such a bill to be put into effect, it is prepared to do so. I listened to that very carefully. I don't have a motion on that. I think there might be less support for this than in the Senate. We'll see how it goes across the street. However, I would like to stress that my group considers this to be very important. My colleagues from the SP and the Animal Party have tabled a number of sensible motions, most of which we are likely to support. Finally, I must say that what is here is a compromise. I understand that from the coalition's point of view, but please do not let us pretend that this is the way we are going to ensure that land-boundness is actually realized and that it is an end to the growth of livestock, because that is not at all the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u101	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for answering all the questions. I'm filing three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, if the national phosphate production ceiling is exceeded, the Secretary of State wishes to introduce a system of animal rights for dairy farming;]] [[Whereas the introduction of animal rights entails disadvantages for, inter alia, animal welfare and is unreasonable for those holdings which have always remained ground-bound;]] [[Whereas there are also other possibilities to prevent the national phosphate production ceiling being exceeded;]] [[calls on the government to develop all conceivable options to regulate phosphate production by dairy farming and to inform the Chamber of 15 May 2015 at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there are extensive dairy farms with negative excess phosphate which can continue to grow by placing phosphate on their own land;]] [[Whereas it is undesirable to limit the growth potential of these pure land-based dairy farms in the foreseeable future by exceeding the national phosphate production ceiling as a result of the growth spurt of large intensive farms;]] [[calls on the Government to reserve part of the remaining space under the sectoral phosphate ceiling for dairy farms with negative excess phosphate that wish to grow,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Geurts and Mr Dijkgraaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33979-86]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Smaling. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33979-87]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u102	My group is thinking, for example, of 1 million kilos of phosphate. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Secretary of State wishes to promote regional loops;]] [[Whereas there are dairy farmers who use, for feed production and manure disposal, the land of farmers in the neighbourhood who do not use them themselves;]] [[calls on the Government to allow dairy farmers to deduct this specific regional manure disposal from their dairy phosphate surplus within a 20 km radius,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33979-88]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u103	I know that we have had an exchange of views on the last issue, but I would nevertheless like to make a statement of principle from the Chamber in order to avoid further discussion and to ensure that it is actually being worked on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u104	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State once again for the many and good commitments; I also said it to the Interrupt Microphone. I very much appreciate the fact that the Secretary of State can sidestep party politics if the importance of the country, the interests of farmers or the interests of animals are at stake. This cannot be given to all directors, and I would therefore particularly like to thank the Secretary of State for that. I am very looking forward to the way in which the dairy farmers' window will be facilitated. I am also very curious about the deadline for that window. I trust the Secretary of State to make sure it gets there quickly, because the boys already need it now. I am very grateful for the attention paid to dried and pulverized manure as a soil cover. I have seen with my own eyes that cows that prefer to any other soil cover. If you let a cow in a stable choose from different types of soil cover, they'll walk massively to that dried manure. I liked to see that. Moreover, it is something very new that gives us the opportunity to lead the way. I'm also looking forward to the phosphate bank. I also think it would be better not to call it a "bank" at this time; perhaps we should opt for "storage." I await with interest the response of the Secretary of State. Finally, I would like to make one short motion, partly on behalf of the men's brother Prof. Dijkgraaf. He's also called Eppie in the Chamber. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the regional fertiliser and feed cycle sector, to promote and/or allow for possible problems,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Graus and Mr Dijkgraaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33979-89]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u105	Mr. Chairman. When Eppie was called early, he always came, and he still is. I thank the Secretary of State for answering the questions. I'll start with a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to use a margin of error in its enforcement when determining whether businesses have sufficient land,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to defer five years for the fulfilment of the land-related requirements, in order to increase production from 2015 onwards and threaten to go bankrupt by an inescapable land acquisition notice,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Dijkgraaf, Mr Geurts and Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33979-90]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Dijkgraaf, Mr Geurts and Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33979-91]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u106	When it came to animal rights and I saw the Secretary of State, I had to think about Dionysius, the tyrant of Syracuse. By the way, I am still hoping for 'judge chamber' for my motion. That tyrant used the sword of Damocles. Dionysius had a courtier who didn't behave. He hung the sword of Damocles above the head of the courtesy to a pedigree how illustrative in a debate on agriculture! And then the courtier behaved again. I saw the Secretary of State on animal rights. If the courtesy is agriculture and the sword is the animal rights bill, then I interpret it a little bit so that the Secretary of State says to the sector: get to work hard now, otherwise... I'm going to do this. I very much hope that the Secretary of State does not really want it to be that tyrant who did not want the sword to fall down either, and that she is thinking on the one hand about how it can stimulate the sector and on the other hand how it can provide alternatives that are less far-reaching and increase costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u107	I have a question on the motion tabled by Mr Dijkgraaf. I could have asked Mrs Dik-Faber or Mr Geurts the same question, but I only now have the text in front of me. I'm considering sending that motion. It concerns the motion in part No. 86, which calls on the government to develop all conceivable options rather than just focusing on animal rights. The SGP and the Party for Animals look at the problems from different positions. I therefore doubt that I will support this motion. I would like to know whether, as far as the SGP is concerned, an option such as grazing livestock units also falls within this framework of 'all conceivable options'. So, apart from our political approach, let us ask the government to list all options. It should not be a request to have all the options that the SGP, the Christian Union and the CDA see fit to work out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u108	Then the motion would have stood: invites the government, all the options that the Christian Union, the CDA and the SGP consider conceivable, to work out. It doesn't say that. Of course we have our preferences, but this is really a request to work out all conceivable options.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u109	Mrs Dikkers of the Labour Party has given up the floor. Mrs Lodders of the VVD also no longer needs to add anything to what she said earlier. I'm looking at the Secretary of State. I imagine you'd like to suspend for a moment. That's right. I'll suspend for two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u110	Mr. Chairman. I shall first give an opinion on the 15 motions for resolutions. I shall then turn to a few more questions, including a question that has been left over from Mrs Lodder's first term. The disadvantage of making a number of commitments is that motions are always tabled on parts that are actually known not to be covered by a commitment. That's in advance a profit warning for the verdict on the motions. Nevertheless, I shall, of course, give an opinion on each motion. The motion in part No. I would advise against 77 of Mr Smaling. He is actually asking for a different adaptation of the AMvB than in the proposal that I have put in your midst. I've explained why I chose the truffle. We have thought about this in detail. Mr Smaling is presenting a different proposal to the Chamber, but from my point of view I would like to discourage that proposal. That is what I want to do with the motion in part No. 78) by Mr Smaling. In that he actually indicates that dairy farming through the AMvB should, as it were, be forced to realize grazing. I have explained very clearly that I would like to give the earning model a chance. I do have a lot of ambition; so we certainly share it, but we disagree about the route. For that reason, I would also like to discourage this motion. With regard to the motion in part No. I have already promised the Chamber a letter from Mr Smaling on what we would do if the national phosphate ceiling were to be exceeded. In that light, I think this motion is really superfluous. I would very much like to use my own terminology. More motions have been tabled on this subject, sometimes with a date. Can I just hold on to what I proposed to the Chamber and thus discourage the motions? The Chamber knows, however, that it receives a letter. It will, of course, also outline the possible options and why I look at them as I look at them. We'll have that debate. Well, I have to say, I'm not looking forward to that, because that's a debate you'd rather not have. After all, I hope that we are not going to reach that ceiling, but I think it is good to have that debate with each other. Let us do so on the basis of a letter and not on the basis of this motion. In the motion in part No. It is proposed that 80 of Mr Graus should choose between the reference years. I explained in my term why I am not in favour of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u111	This motion belongs to Mr Geurts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u112	Sorry, excuse me. They sit next to each other; that's just it. Sorry, I won't do it again, I hope. I'm gonna keep the motion in part no. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: I now come to the motion on part No. 81. Mrs Dik-Faber has actually tabled the same type of motion. I really need to dissuade this motion. Apart from the fact that simply not taking up the dairy phosphate surplus would deny the reality, it is phosphate, which plays a role in the production process, which is also not possible under the Nitrate Directive. After all, we have to count the total phosphate production. Actually, you'd be letting companies out of the system with this. Apparently, the concept of "ground-boundity" does not apply to this. We can't get into that. I'm getting to the motion on part No. 82 by Mrs Ouwehand, who wants me to withdraw the AMvB. I do not think I need to explain why I am very opposed to this motion and therefore strongly advise against it. The same applies to the motion in part No. 83. Again: yes, we are working on a bill for the introduction of animal rights. We are going to have the debate with the Chamber on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u113	I would also like to achieve other societal goals, but not necessarily always through the law. We have already talked about this in the context of the meadow corridor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u114	The Secretary of State doesn't necessarily want to regulate that in the law. It doesn't have to be, but the law she makes mustn't get in the way of social goals. That's how she should read the motion. Furthermore, I believe that its own ambition to bring the grazing to 80% by 2020 is only five years from now, and cannot be kept outside the legal framework in the light of the question of what effect that has on the achievement of the ambitions. That's what I'm talking about. If the law contributes to social intentions without literally having to regulate them in the law, that's fine. But it has to be coherent.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u115	Now Mrs Ouwehand needs a lot of words to explain exactly what it says. For me, that's exactly why I'm not embracing the motion right now. 'Cause I don't know what she means by it exactly. What I do know is that I certainly have a number of social goals in mind for dairy farming. I am not alone in that, a lot of people want that, and the sector itself wants that. We need to realize this, sometimes through legislation and regulation, sometimes through a different track. In that I choose my own approach. Mrs Ouwehand is not happy today, because her motion in part No. 84 I must advise against. We have often considered this issue, but I do not now come up with a moratorium. Mrs Ouwehand has in part No. 85 tabled a motion to further amend the Implementing Decision Fertilisers Act. It organises an unnecessary restriction that cannot be defended from the purposes of the Fertilisers Act. Manure must be accounted for and used. The distance is not relevant in advance. That's why I'm dissuading the motion. For the motion in part No. 86 of Mr Dik-Faber c.s. The same is true of what I said to Mr Smaling, who tabled a motion on the same subject. She gets her letter. I have promised that I will see when the figures will come and that I will report to her on that. The date depends on that. I just can't guarantee a date like 15 May 2015. I said "May." I kindly ask Mrs Dik-Faber if she can just let me send that letter. As far as I'm concerned, her motion is superfluous. Mrs. Dik-Faber gets that letter and we'll see if it's enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u116	If I change the motion so I write in it "end of May"? It's about making all the variants that are conceivable clear to me. Can they be put together so that they are very similar? Then what would be against this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u117	For example, there is a consideration that I cannot support in advance. I am not only concerned with the date, but also with the outcome. I'd be happy to put variants in the picture, but you've already had that promise. There is something else you would like to say, but I do not know if I can support it. It is not just a question of the date, but also of how you enter into that debate. In that I have my own position and you have yours. I'm going to visualize what's in the picture. But all the variants? I don't know what the word "all" means. There are a lot of people who think about this subject, but that does not necessarily mean that they all bring out working variants. We'll see what we can do. I thought I'd already met you in this. I wanted to leave it at that. I shall now proceed to the motion for a resolution on part No. Mr Dik-Smaling and Mr Faber asked the government to reserve part of the remaining area under the sectoral phosphate ceiling for dairy farms with a negative excess phosphate that wanted to grow. The law but also the AMvB offers no basis for that. We are trying, because we have introduced the threshold of 20 kilos, to give these extensive companies a head start, as it were, because the AMvB does not apply to them. That's what we do. So I'm afraid I'm going to have to discourage this motion. The same applies to the motion in part No. 88 on 'out-of-order explanation of the dairy phosphate surplus'. That's basically reasoning away from a surplus that is there. As has already been said, this cannot be done; it cannot be done through the Nitrates Directive. Quite frankly, it is also a bit strange that on the one hand you want to place a strong emphasis on ground-boundness and, on the other hand, you build in a kind of opening in the proposal, a lot of people say: I am one of them. Those people have nothing to do with groundboundness anymore, because that's what you're actually doing with this. In that sense, I am somewhat surprised that this proposal comes from those who place so much emphasis on ground-boundity. After all, it is once again an exception.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u118	The point is that phosphate is deducted from the surplus. It is intended to close regional loops. That's what all the parties here in the Chamber want, isn't it? I receive in my mailbox the e-mails from so many companies that write that they have been working like this for years. They write: we are dairy farmers and not farmers; there is land owned by a farmer, there the feed is grown and there we bring up the manure; let us just keep our dairy farm. Isn't that what we want to do with each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u119	Yes, but that's not what you're asking here. What you're asking here is to explain that manure out of order. So suddenly it is no longer there, but it does affect nature and the environment, for example. Apart from the fact that it really is not possible, it is an erosion of the concept of land-based. Because in fact you make sure that you don't have a whole group of dairy farmers at all anymore. I just really don't know if that's what you're trying to do on the ground. This is something other than promoting this regional cycle. I'd like to do that. We're gonna do that, but we're not gonna do that by suddenly making manure that is there, as it were, invisible. That is what you are asking me, and that is really not wise. The motion by Mr Graus and Mr Dijkgraaf to item No. 89, I'll have to dissuade you, too. Yes, we want to promote the regional cycle with the sector, but by speaking of 'faults', an inclined plane is being organized. I'm just gonna have to turn that down. I have been very precise about this in my contribution. I really am. That is why I must reject this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u120	It's very difficult for me, too. For me, it's even harder to determine who might have gotten hurt. For us too, it is often coffee-diving. How can I possibly amend that motion so that the Secretary of State says: okay, I can live with that? It is very difficult to formulate it correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u121	I understand that, but I just think that we should stay within the framework of the law at the whole point of these troubles. In addition, there is the window for people with technical or practical questions. The people who are a problem under the law, because they are defined in the law as a problem, can of course also go there. That is also an important gesture to the part of the Chamber that asked for that window. However, I find it strange to organise an open door to more cases by means of a motion. We have not for a long time considered this in the debate. I think we should have a clear framework. We are not going to repeat what we have experienced in previous situations: inviting people to come up with 20,000 objections again, sometimes even clustered and co-organised from other organisations. We really shouldn't. Then we're really going up the beet bridge. As I know Mr Graus, he does not want to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u122	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u123	I don't think today's gonna be a good day. The honourable Dijkgraaf and friends have tabled two motions. The motion in part No. 90 is about the margin of error. I have already explained in my contribution that I do not think that is wise, although Mr Dijkgraaf's contributions are generally very wise. That is not entirely consistent with this motion. The same applies to the Dijkgraaf motion c.s. in piece No. 91. That is why we are introducing a new category of troubles. I understand that's what the proposers want, but I think that's a bad idea. I'm just saying straight away, they'll know what they're up to. This motion, too, I regret to say, has to be discouraged. I say to Mr Graus that I will come back to the phosphate storage in May; so I shall mention it now that the word 'bank' is somewhat contaminated, at least in Mr Graus's words. If we don't, we're gonna get in trouble again. The window starts at the end of May. We're gonna try to help that quickly now. Last but not least, Mrs Lodders asked if I could monitor mobility alongside the price of land. Yes, we are going to try to analyse the causal relationship between the AMvB and ground mobility, because that is what Mrs Lodders is about. This is the end of my input, Mr. Chairman. Thanks to your room.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-23-tweedekamer-7.u124	Thank you. We'll vote on the motions next Tuesday. We shall then first vote on Mrs Ouwehand's two motions for resolutions on the items Nos. 82 and 85 because they are the most far-reaching.
