ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Housing and National Service. Speaking time is four minutes and there may be a maximum of two interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. This debate is not about the corporations in the Netherlands. This debate concerns a number of corporations which, despite all warnings, act negligently and which have acted negligently in their task of derivatives through intermediaries and in the financial transactions of their corporations. We are talking about 18 corporations. That is too much, all the more so because these corporations are screwing up for the hundreds of corporations that are doing excellent work and showing a solidity that you can expect in the corporate world. In this context, we find the letter we received from Aedes on this subject, integrity and transparency, encouraging. This negligence, as well as the lack of a moral compass in the trading of derivatives in the corporate world, concern in particular two bodies, which we wish to bring forward here. These are the banks and supervisory boards of the corporations concerned. We can deal with a lot of rules. We can improve and force fit and clean tests, but ultimately it comes down to human action and a cultural change. This applies to the banks, but that is all the more true for regulators in the world of corporations, whose integrity, diligence, modesty and moral compass should be intrinsic parts. That is why we have a number of questions. Has the government had contact with the relevant banks in the light of the letter from the Central Fund for Housing? In what way does the conduct of these banks affect the relationship with the government, the way in which they operate with this cabinet? Does the government intend to step up the pressure on the banks in this respect? To what extent is trading in derivatives through intermediaries still taking place in the corporate sector? I'd like to get a response to these questions. The Central Fund notes that it has clear indications that the intermediaries accused of fraud have also been active in the health and education sectors. What did the cabinet do with that observation? Has the government launched an investigation into the nature, extent and integrity of the trade in derivatives in the education and care sectors? I would like a response from the Minister. In what way have the supervisory boards of these corporations been told about their failure, their negligence? Have they been summoned to the Central Fund? Is further action by the Minister appropriate in this respect? There are ministers in the cabinet who can summon ambassadors. Is this, because it is quite serious, the issue of requiring these supervisory councils to be sent to? I would like a response from the Minister. I would also like to highlight this: are these people still able to continue to play their role in the future? Shouldn't there at least be an investigation, an adapted fit and clean test for these supervisory board members, whose Central Fund says they acted negligently? I'd like to get a reaction to this. We in the Chamber have taken many measures to combat this type of practice in the future. The revised Housing Act will enter into force on 1 July. Does the Minister consider that, looking at these cases, all of which are summarised in that one letter from the Central Fund, he has sufficient instruments to prevent or prevent this kind of thing from happening in the future? The latter is, in my view, the maximum that we can ask of each other. Does he have enough instruments in his hands? I also ask that because the AMVBs that belong to the law must still come back from the Council of State to the Chamber. Perhaps the Minister will see reason to tighten things up after all. Does the Minister think that this is necessary or does he think he has sufficient resources with the current instruments and in view of this case? I would just like to take this opportunity to ask when we can expect these AMvBs in the Chamber. There's a forensic investigation going on. The state's attorney's office has initiated a further investigation. Can the Minister indicate whether there is more knowledge of this, or when we can expect the results of these investigations here? The fact that we're talking today about forensic research and investigation by the state's attorney's office is really something. I believe that all corporate directors and supervisory boards, at least almost all, want to get rid of this as soon as possible. It's research that doesn't belong in the corporate world. We have a new law for this and we hope we can resolve this as soon as possible. That is why I am so curious about the results of the investigations carried out by, among other things, the Public Prosecutor's Office.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u3	Mr. Chairman. It's a lot: derivatives and cross border leases. These very complex financial products are also applied to the public and the semi-public sector. Moreover, they are not only the social housing provided by aggressive banks and intermediaries, but also education and care. Those products have been adopted by drivers who have been dragged through the whole system. They have been approved and/or perverted by supervisors and political leaders. I don't need to repeat that whole history anymore, but that is what led to the Vestiadebacle. Vestia had 23 billion worth of these products in its portfolio and we know that this debacle, together with the other scandals, has led to public damage of up to 10 billion for social housing. A parliamentary inquiry has been conducted in response to this case. The rules have subsequently been tightened in recent years, but still the practice. A number of corporations are still working, despite the improvements made by many other corporations, with such complex financial products that they, and I certainly cannot explain to tenants and the rest of the Netherlands. We read that the enhanced supervision by the supervisor has led to at least the following facts. There are 21 corporations with supervisory restrictions in the contracts. That just means that they have been put at their throats and that they can hardly get rid of these derivatives. The most important thing, however, is that external supervision has been made impossible by clever tricks from those bankers and those intermediaries. Eighteen corporations are now being investigated forensics. The Minister doesn't call it disturbing for nothing. The supervisor further writes that there is still a very, very long way to go before the corporations get things in order. When have these deals been made? Who approved it? When will we get the results of the ongoing investigations? Does the Minister share my view that from now on, and certainly from 1 July onwards, it should no longer be possible for corporations to work with such complex financial products, and certainly not if that is for speculative purposes? There has been a motion by Mr Van Vliet and I have voted only against the VVD in which the Chamber actually says: "Minister, test this in advance. Make sure that the stricter rules, which, if it is right, make it impossible for this speculative behaviour to be displayed, are respected." What's the progress on the implementation of that motion? Can the Minister guarantee that new deals will not be made again? What is really incredibly brutal, incredibly embarrassing, something that the banks show is actually shitting or, a little more parliamentaryly, neglecting the people, the collective, is that a lot of banks say that they are not cooperating in resolving the regulatory provisions, including seven contracts with the bank that is still a state bank, ABN AMRO. I would like to know from the Minister what steps he has taken and what steps he will take to at least get out with Mr Zalm. It must recognise that a huge mistake has been made here, and that not only we as taxpayers and/or the corporation that rightly now has to change the rules, practice and culture, but also the banks that have responsibility. I would like to receive a response to that. In addition, I have the following question. When from 1 July, with the new law with stricter rules, a new supervisor with more instruments starts working, are we all ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u4	Will you finish up, Mrs. Karabulut?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u5	Yes, this is my final point, Mr President. Mr Monasch also referred to it. A number of detailed rules have not yet been worked out. The supervisor is still in a phase of conversion. Is the practice ready? Can the Minister exclude that I think it is very important that new contracts are concluded and/or have been concluded in the past year?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u6	Mr. Chairman. 2014 was the year of the Committee of Inquiry and the Housing Corporations Act. The investigation is done. The rules of the game have been tightened and the external supervisor has been set. 2015 is the year of truth. Paper must become practice, words must become action and intentions must lead to a cultural change. But is that gonna work? After all the abuses of the past few years, too much seems to remain the same. Corporates remain commercially active, wrote Het Financieele Dagblad yesterday. There's still some stuff about rewards. The other day we almost had another megafusion. Debt securities continue to poison the sector, and corporations do not deal with integrity problems in their own homes. It is a pity that Mr Van Vliet cannot be here today because of a tax debate, because as chairman of the Committee of Inquiry, he could also have made firm statements about the fact that everything seems to remain the same. At the initiative of the external supervisor, 27 corporations investigate the dubious role of external advisors in derivatives transactions. These advisers are not always independent. For example, there are intermediaries who are not only paid by the corporation but also by the bank. Fortunately, the supervisor performs his task proactively and does not wait for signals from the housing corporations themselves. Hopefully, with the pooling of financial and integrity surveillance, such integral investigations will become even easier in the future, starting on 1 July. The positive thing is that external supervision is starting to work, but internal supervision, in the case of corporations themselves, is inadequate. Corporates themselves also need to do more about integrity issues, because doubts about the independence, integrity and expertise of external consultants who advise on expensive and complex transactions are worrying. I ask the Minister if the requirements that external advisors of housing corporations have to meet have been properly incorporated into the legislation. How are external advisors who are not acting in integrity themselves addressed? Is the obligation of care of banks in derivatives also in force with consultants who are paid by themselves? Mr Monasch also referred to the fact that she has tried to address integrity with committees, sounding boards, manuals, benchmarks, codes and so on; a whole list is listed in the letter from Aedes. However, according to the supervisor, the corporations lack in particular the expertise and knowledge to be able to properly assess external advisors. They just don't know enough about the earning model of intermediaries and the commissions and fees banks pay to external consultants. Will knowledge about the advisory sector also be part of training and training in housing corporations? Can the Minister with the supervisor and Aedes develop tools for screening procedures and contractual agreements with external experts to counter conflicts of interest? The supervisory review showed that problems with external consultants also arise in the care and education sectors. My question to the Minister is whether he is actively working with his colleagues to tackle the problems more widely outside the corporate sector itself. Corporations still have over 2 billion in derivative contracts which contain supervisory provisions. Therefore, the regulator cannot properly control those derivative contracts. That's worrying. The housing corporations must try to close these contracts as quickly as possible, but buying them off costs a lot of money and the banks are not really cooperating to solve it in another way. What possibilities does the Minister see for banks to participate more in the winding down of these contracts?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u7	Mr. Chairman. Following the Court's request, insight is given into the issues of integrity in housing corporations that have not yet been disclosed. It is good to note that steps have been taken since 2009 to ensure integrity and integrity within the corporations. For example, in 2009 a zero measurement was carried out by the Central Fund for Housing. In 2010 a preventive screening of the housing corporations was also carried out by INTRAVAL Bureau on behalf of the then VROM-Inspection. The Contact Point Integrity Housing Corporations also started the inspection. In anticipation of the introduction of the Reform Act as of 1 July 2015, rules have already been established or strengthened to reduce risks on integrity issues. As stated in the Minister's letter, the CFV also investigated intermediaries. As a result of the findings of the investigation, 18 corporations have started or are conducting further research on external forensics. Apparently there's something going on there, because otherwise there would be no investigation. On the other hand, it remains to be seen whether these housing companies are genuinely in breach of integrity. The Inspection Environment and Transport started this year by carrying out inspection audits into the governance within the housing corporations and an analysis of the integrity of the corporations. It is good to note that financial supervision will continue to pay attention to integrity risks related to, for example, real estate transactions and to the earlier detection of risky behaviour. Under the new revision law, directors and supervisory directors of authorised institutions are required to comply with the fit and clean test when re-appointed. This should be operational by 1 July. We think it will take a miracle to do that for that date. Can the Minister promise that this will be settled before 1 July? In his letter, the Minister does not rule out any further breach of integrity and fraud in corporations. Has the Minister received any signals at this time that more cases are coming out? We are shocked by the state of play with regard to supervisory provisions in derivatives constructions. There are still 21 corporations with contracts with provisions that hinder supervision, involving 7 banks. I ask the Minister whether these contracts all date from before September 2012, when the new policy rules on this matter were introduced. The aim is to close down these types of contracts and at least to remove tbbs, but the banks concerned do not appear to want to cooperate in removing the tbbs from contracts or only against an unacceptable condition for the corporations, such as high buy-back costs. It also says that ABN AMRO does not want this. We would like to know from the Minister whether he sees opportunities to set an example to our state bank ABN AMRO. We are deeply concerned that about one third of the 21 corporations are currently able to fully finance their market value when a contract is terminated. Especially since the parliamentary survey on the corporation sector is still fresh in memory. For some time there have been several policy rules in many different forms. Shouldn't we look at whether this can be arranged in other ways? Fighting a billion-dollar loss in the public sector with only policy rules is not possible. That is why the CDA Group seems right to lay down a number of things in general, including as a warning to the financial sector. As far as we are concerned, contracts with obstructive provisions should be null and void. Drivers who conclude such contracts should be relieved of their duties immediately. Is the Minister prepared to come forward with a proposal for a legal measure, in which this type of contract is void under Dutch law? Can the Minister reach a legal measure whereby directors of organisations are immediately relieved of their duties when concluding contracts with obstructive provisions?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u8	Last week we also had a debate with Mr Ronnes. Then he made his maiden speech so we couldn't interrupt. But that time is over. I would therefore like to put a critical question to the CDA. In recent years, we have looked very critically at corporations in the Committee of Inquiry and subsequently in the legislative process. In the eyes of D66, the CDA was strikingly placed as the guardian of the corporations. There should not be too much criticism of the corporations, because they also did a lot of good. Mr Ronnes is now also very critical of the corporations. Is there a change of course at the CDA? Or does the CDA want butter with the fish now? Doesn't the CDA also want corporations to keep falling into those mistakes of the past every time?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u9	Firstly, I have made it very clear that steps have been taken in the right direction. I have substantiated that by telling you what steps these are. That doesn't match the conclusion you're making. Furthermore, there are still corporations where problems with derivatives occur. In that light it is good to investigate whether you should not attract the band a bit tighter on those points through legal provisions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u10	Finally, Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u11	There's gonna be a price change in the corporations. But is there also a somewhat sharper rate of the CDA vis-à-vis the corporations? May I draw that conclusion? Or does Mr Ronnes say: no, we continue to have a great deal of confidence in this sector, we do not want to be too critical?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u12	We will be critical of the corporations at all times. In that sense, therefore, that is not a change of course. What has gone well and what goes well, we must dare to name. But if there are things that cannot be done in the public sector, then the money must be well spent, and it must be considered whether the control mechanisms are sufficient to manage the business.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u13	Mr. Chairman. I'm taking you to the old corporate world before 2012. At corporations, derivatives management was left to that one smart financial employee.... let's call him Mr. Jansen... who did his thing in a modest room on the second floor. The board let him, because Jansen seemed to have it all in hand. The Supervisory Board barely knew about Jansen's existence, had no idea of derivatives, or both. It seemed to go well until it turned out to be wrong. Jansen was in his spare time a celebrated playboy, sat in front of Roland Garros, sat in the best turn at Formula 1 races and knew all Michelin stars in the Randstad. He got a standing ovation in the dealership room of a well-known German bank and his derivatives trade ran through intermediaries who weren't too bad to let Jansen share in the generous fees. Jansen in turn had all the freedom to distribute or distribute those fairies. Jansen had to do something more than cover up boring interest rate risks. He had to work with adventurous products, which also made a profit for the corporation. That started with payer swaps and knock-in floors, but later that became structured loans with a multiplier. The Swiss interest rate went up, the yield for the corporation went up or down by 10%. From that moment on, the risk was unlimited. So when things went wrong, things went wrong right away. The collateral was claimed, and that was about billions. It was January 27, 2012. We then set up a committee of inquiry and set up a whole package of legislation and regulations. We'll put the Supervisory Board to a fit and clean test. We're building a new supervisor. We'll keep the mutual societies under review. The trade associations, Aedes and the Association of Supervisors in Housing Corporations, make a major contribution with self-regulation, training and a toolkit. It doesn't surprise the VVD that we're still dealing with long-term derivative contracts with all kinds of weird conditions. It concerns 23 corporations with 2.2 billion in derivative contracts. They're reasonable in sight, and now they're being controlled. But we are talking about a negative market value of 900 million. How does the Minister qualify that amount? Is there now 900 million in social capital, meant for social tenants, going through the well? Or can we still consider a part of it as a kind of insurance premiums for risks that have not ultimately been realised? This is because derivatives are meant for this purpose and the VVD does not in itself object to the use of derivatives to cover risks. We are particularly shocked by the comments made by the Central Fund, which have little regard for integrity risks for the majority of corporations. They also do not know which fees are paid, indirectly to third parties. Jansen is still with us, but we don't pay any attention to it. However, next year, corporations will be split into an SGEI and a non-DAEB section and there will be a lot to do with bankers and accountants. Who better to direct this complex operation than the whizzkid of the corporation, the same Mr. Jansen? The Minister places the letter from the Central Fund in a broader context. He goes back to a zero measurement in 2009 and reports that fewer cases and, above all, less serious cases are coming into the hotline. It's not July 1st yet. There is no new legislation yet and the new supervisor is not yet active. The Central Fund expects that the fit and clean test from 1 July will provide tools for calling reluctant supervisory boards into order. Can we assume that the new supervisor will report on this in his annual report? We can arrange everything to the point, but we can't rule out the fact that there's a Mr. Jansen somewhere in one of the corporations on the second floor. This underlines all the more the risks that the taxpayer runs by bailing out via the WSW. The Minister has promised an analysis of that bail. Can we look forward to it, as promised, at the end of May, at the beginning of June? Then we would also like to discuss it further.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u14	I also mention that "DAEB" stands for "Services of General Economic Interest." Finally, Mr De Graaf has the floor on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u15	Mr. Chairman. For years, the PVV has been making a major point of the integrity issues of housing corporations. In addition to the concerns/integrity risks identified by the Central Fund Housing, the PVV also sees the issue of the far too high wages and the many side jobs of mainly corporate directors as an integrity theme. Luckily, at the end of last year, the Chamber unanimously adopted the novelle of the Revision Act, the change in the system of housing corporations. According to the PVV, this is already an important step towards cleaning the corporate system. Less side functions, the commercial branch separated from the core job portfolio: that's nice. As is well known, the PVV would have preferred that the housing corporations would no longer engage in commercial activities at all. We have also tabled an amendment to that effect, but unfortunately it did not. I told you, the PVV is concerned about the abuses in the housing corporations. We have therefore wholeheartedly supported the request for this debate. We find it disturbing that, despite the fact that a whole paper guarantee of the integrity of housing corporations has been put in place in recent years, in practice all kinds of abuses still persist. The Integrity Housing Corporations Report has not handed over cases to the D.A. for criminal prosecution in the past year. In the meantime, the Centraal Fonds Volkshuizing is still conducting forensic studies in housing corporations. They could lead to new returns. The Minister remains of the opinion that integrity issues should first and foremost be addressed within the sector itself, including through policy formulation on integrity, the availability of an integrity code and the availability of a trusted person. The PVV likes to see less emphasis on paper reality and is more on stepping up control, because control is still better than trust. Enforcement is, of course, part of this, as well as possible criminal proceedings. Can the Minister give his view on that last point and respond a little more comprehensively to it? Then I'll leave it at first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u16	Mr. Chairman. In fact, all the spokesmen have rightly expressed their concerns about abuses in the corporate sector. In a sector where a lot of money is involved, the risk of something going wrong is always a lot greater than in other places. Mr Monasch was quite right to stress that this is certainly not because there would be more villains working in the corporate sector than elsewhere. A great deal of good work is being done, but the sector is too vulnerable to abuses. The sector has been too often in the news with this in the past. This has been detrimental to the whole sector, but it does not mean that the sector would not do a good job. It is precisely in order to ensure that this sector can do its job properly and that the money of tenants and taxpayers is not squandered that we must be very critical of abuses in any form. We must therefore set up regulations and supervision in such a way as to prevent these abuses. That is why we, the government and the Chamber together, have taken a whole package of measures in recent years. Shortly before my arrival, the rules on the use of derivatives have been greatly tightened. That has not resulted in a ban. Mr Van der Linde rightly pointed out that a derivative that is purely intended to cover an interest rate risk for an existing loan could have added value. But derivatives that are intended to speculate on financial markets and all of that with the implicit state guarantee of the Social Housing Fund in the background, that kind of shit, are prohibited. In addition, the supervisor, the Centraal Fonds Volkshuizing, has clearly tightened his supervision in the past period. In this context, the investigation of intermediaries has also been carried out, which I will look into in a moment. So the supervisor has also taken on his responsibilities. Of course, crucial in the management of these risks is the adoption of the revision of the Housing Act which will enter into force on 1 July. As a very important component, it includes the fit and clean test for Commissioners. In addition to other skills, Commissioners must have financial knowledge in order to understand the consequences of financial products. This also means that there will be greater liability for internal supervisors to keep the corporations informed. It is therefore a major tightening-up of external supervision. Mr Verhoeven rightly pointed out that hosting the ILT means that the Authority can also use the search services available there. I have indicated that the supervisory capacity will also be increased. In addition, the trade association Aedes and the Association of Supervisors in Housing Corporations have indicated their willingness to take steps themselves regarding the quality of supervisors. I think these are important steps, but this is not enough in itself. Once again, I believe that the legislator and the supervisors should assume their own responsibility on behalf of taxpayers. However, I do appreciate the fact that the industry organisation and the organisation of the supervisors take responsibility for this themselves. A specific part of the debate is the phasing out of supervisory restrictions in derivative contracts. This phase-out is, in itself, a success. As the Central Fund for Housing informed the Chamber, the number of corporations still involved in supervisory restrictions has decreased from 70 to 21. So it's heading in the right direction, but they haven't disappeared yet. A number of questions specifically address the way in which we should deal with the remaining control restrictions. Mr Monasch asked whether the cabinet would now contact the banks about the remaining supervisory restrictions. First of all, those anti-supervisory provisions for 2012 were not prohibited. They are partly general in scope and are included in credit agreements concluded with other counterparties. For example, if control of an organisation changes or is placed under supervision, a funder can modify or dissolve a financing or contract. Such provisions are often not even specifically targeted at housing corporations; they are included in many credit agreements. Because a housing corporation is an organisation that actually works with public money, we have only said that we no longer accept this method. But the fact that they were in it in the past, with the glasses of that time, is a given that we now have to work with. If these provisions are not in breach of the law, then it is not for the government to say to a bank: you should not have done so. 'Cause at that point, it was allowed. With these contracts breaking open, there will often be a fee to be paid. So at that point, public money is lost. As long as there is no concrete damage in the context of old contracts, it is therefore not obvious that action is being taken by the government or that the supervisor is breaking the contract, but it is simply on the way of the organisation itself to conduct negotiations with banks on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u17	In the documents we read that 21 of these contracts are covered by 7 of them at the state bank ABN AMRO, for which we have all spent billions and who now wants to sell the cabinet again on the stock market. That is the point that I, Mr Monasch, and I hope others will also make here. How do they imagine that, following the social damage, the overall banking crisis and then the crisis in housing corporations have evaporated billions of money from tenants and social assets, they refuse to cooperate in resolving the regulatory restrictions? In other words, to prevent any more risks? There I see a very important task for the Minister. Does he agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u18	If there are really unacceptable risks, the supervisor can force you to terminate or modify a contract. However, the termination of all 21 remaining contracts, according to private law, will allow the contracting party to claim compensation. It follows from private law; I cannot overrule that as a minister. Then a logical consideration is whether you want to spill public money if there is no immediate risk to the corporation and the provision under the law that was in force when the contract was concluded was not prohibited. I don't think it's on the way of a minister then. The regulator must operate independently to interfere in a private-law transaction. The management or supervisor of a housing corporation can of course start the negotiation itself. However, once again, if there are considerable costs involved, I can imagine that the consideration will be made to hand out the contract and not to spill public money by breaking the interim.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u19	I'm just not getting an answer from the Minister to my question. I'm not talking about the result, so I'm talking about whether or not to break the contract. It is the principle that banks, including the state bank ABN AMRO, which we have all put billions for, refuse to cooperate in resolving any regulatory restrictions, i.e. to solve problems. This is about morality and social responsibility. The point is that we are not just paying the citizens' bills, pointing the finger at the corporations and saying that this is about culture. It is also a question of these banks finally seeing that they cannot escape from God, Jan and Alleman and all the rules after all these scandals. It is therefore also a question of the moral awareness and commitment of this minister. So I would like to insist once again that he engages in that conversation. The outcome is verse two.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u20	I agree with Mrs Karabulut that the moral awareness at the time when many of these contracts were concluded turned out to be absent from banks and that contracts were concluded that were simply inappropriate. That does not change the fact that if you want to open up the current contracts that were allowed under the legislation at that time and which, moreover, did not necessarily have to be wrong on purely financial grounds, then you are covered by private law and are subject to compensation. That's something I can't leave out of the discussion because it still means spilling public money.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u21	I don't think anyone here in this Chamber would want us to go bacon the banks even more by breaking those contracts. Following on from Mrs Karabulut's appeal, I think that the appeal can be made to show for their part that they did not act correctly; this was also reflected in the various conclusions drawn here in other debates, namely that a corporation is a different type of party than a commercial party that, for example, is listed on the market. A bank should have taken that into account. That is one of the conclusions shared by many here. The Minister is responsible for the people's housing system. My question is whether, on the basis of that responsibility, he would like to ask the banks to look again at whether that provision cannot be unilaterally amended, in the sense that the banks will say: we have indeed gone too far in the past, we maintain our contractual obligations, but we should not have introduced those restrictive provisions and we are going to remove them, without any financial consequences. Is the Minister prepared to engage in that type of action and conversation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u22	This would mean that, in these contracts, where there are no acute risks to the corporation concerned or to the property of the people, not the corporation itself or its supervisory board engages in the conversation with the bank but that the minister should sit in the chair of that corporation's own management in order to enter into talks with the bank. I really don't think that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u23	I make that request because the Minister, from his ministerial responsibility, is ultimately, through the revised Housing Act, the politically responsible for this system under which this has taken place. This question is not just theoretical. I remember very well the conversation I had with Mrs Spies on Friday afternoon before Christmas, asking why she did not intervene and saying: I cannot intervene, because if I intervene there is a margin call, because there are restrictions on supervision. Mrs Spies, the minister's predecessor, would have liked nothing more. What matters to me is that in such a situation, which we all hope will not take place in the 21 corporations, I also say to the Minister that it is a good thing that it will not be able to intervene. I hope that the Minister will not ever have to make another phone call as Mrs Spies had to do and he will have to say: I cannot intervene. Hence the appeal to enter into dialogue with these banks from his system responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u24	Mr Monasch will agree with me that the situation in which Minister Spies was at the time does not arise now. The signal from the Central Fund for Housing is not that there is an acute risk that hundreds of millions or even more than 1 billion will evaporate again. The signal is: the termination of contracts with restrictive provisions is taking place at a reasonable pace but there is still a residual group. Since there is no acute threat and it is a matter of private-law contracts between a housing corporation with its own responsibility and the bank, I do not think it is logical that the Minister should take over all these housing corporations and actually say to them: I am taking over the board of you because I am going to negotiate with the bank in your place. Then tomorrow I will be able to negotiate with the contractor the costs they incur for this and the day after tomorrow I will be allowed to negotiate a collective agreement on terms of employment. We have arranged it in such a way that we ensure that public interests are protected, but not that in individual cases a minister or a supervisor will negotiate the way a corporation does its business.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u25	I think that the Minister's reply takes the remarks made by Mr Karabulut and Mr Monasch a little out of context. I do agree with him on the private law aspect of what he is dealing with in the case. If the Minister looks at the banking sector and the past, he will, of course, also look at the future. What is the Minister's view of the banks' duty of care in relation to corporations? How'd that work out for you? I understand that the Minister feels restrictions in dealing with the derivative contracts that are still in place, but how does the Minister now view the banks' duty of care? It wouldn't be so crazy to start talking about both the past and the future in this area, would it? It's not that weird, is it? It's not a supervisory role that the minister should take on, is it? Isn't it also the role that a minister can sometimes take to smooth out major problems?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u26	Mr Verhoeven looked ahead and asked whether the changeover had been made at the banks. I think the answer to that question is yes, but in the sense of: yes, you can see that banks have become more cautious. There are currently far fewer derivatives being sold and the derivatives sold to housing corporations are of the type we allow. And then there is my 'but': we have not only relied on that cultural change in the banks or in the housing corporations, but we have also laid down in hard regulations that no other derivatives should be sold. Frankly, in this situation, I trust much more than just that cultural change. That is why I began by saying that we have not in vain greatly strengthened internal supervision and liability, made demands for expertise and strengthened and extended external supervision. Although we are seeing improvements, in the corporate sector itself and in the banking world, I do not blindly trust that in five years' time, when the economy and the market are hopefully booming again, everyone will remain on their own.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u27	Mr Van der Linde had a story about Mr Jansen's fictional figure. He was a handy guy in the housing corporation business who made all those deals. Let's take a look at the banks and maybe you should call him "Pieterse," the person who made all those housing corporation types tasty with all those promising products and constructions. Does the Minister think that, in line with the VVD colleague's story about Mr Jansen, there are still many men and Mrs Pieterse at banks still working to attract as much money as possible from the corporation market? Or does the Minister say that he is quite certain that we have covered this both through culture and through legislation and that there is no more Mr or Mrs Pieterse at the banks?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u28	This Mr. or Mrs. Pieterse will only be able to earn a very bad living from the housing corporations and that's a good thing too. A housing corporation can only conclude a derivative contract, directly linked to a loan to finance housing. The accumulation of purely speculative products is therefore no longer possible. In addition, in the banking world, there has been a huge tightening up of the rules on serving the customer interest and the knowledge you need of the counterparty. It is not for nothing that housing corporations have been said that they are not just a professional counterpart like a large company. They are public organisations. The old gentleman or Mrs. Pieterse is probably doing something completely different right now. There is now only one colleague who can offer derivatives linked to loans, but only under very strict conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u29	I fully agree with the point that we should not concern ourselves with public law. Nevertheless, I ask the Minister whether he agrees with me that this is the perfect time for a bank like ABN AMRO to set an example of how we can clean up the business properly and put the derivatives discussion behind us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u30	I have already indicated that I do not think that a minister should enter into the contracts between banks whether ABN AMRO or another bank is debt securities and housing corporations, just as one minister should not enter into the other transactions that enter into housing corporations or banks on an individual basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u31	I can tell that we are not really moving forward and that it remains on the subject of public law. Other speakers have also said that it is the moral aspect that is at stake here. Let us have a healthy conversation with our own ABN AMRO to see if that bank can play some kind of exemplary role in the new financial world for the future, cleaning up with this kind of thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u32	The State is against remembrance but for a good reason owns ABN AMRO. This still does not mean that we should operate differently here than the general line, which Mr Ronnes does share, that the Minister should not constantly enter into public law agreements. I see no reason why it should have become the owner of this bank, because of the circumstances, other than the general line that this is not on the Minister's way but on the way of the lending institution, the housing corporation and the providing bank.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u33	I suggest you continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u34	Mr Monasch also asked if I can guarantee that no new deals will be made. It is simply forbidden to close new exotic derivatives that are not linked to loans. It is also subject to strict supervision, just as it is currently prohibited to include control-limiting provisions. In practice, therefore, we also see that that volume has decreased enormously. Just as the Minister of Justice can never fully guarantee that there will not be a break-in, I cannot quite guarantee that there will never be a crooked skating, but I can show that not only that supervision has been greatly improved, but that this type of transaction has actually disappeared from the market. Mr Monasch also asked how we dealt with the signals that intermediaries are also active in health and education. The Central Fund has sent that signal to the fellow inspections responsible for this. So they have to get to work on that now too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u35	Can I therefore conclude from the previous point that the contracts on which the Central Fund has informed us and the information on the 21 contracts with regulatory restrictions before 2012 are?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u36	Those were old contracts, because after that, they weren't allowed to do it anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u37	So no such contracts have been concluded after that? So these are all ongoing contracts that have been concluded for 2012?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u38	This would be old contracts. If a contract were to be concluded after that, the regulatory authority in 2012 would intervene and say that it should not be done, so that the contract should be amended. So that possibility didn't exist before that time. Mr Monasch also asked how the fit and clean test will now work out for directors or supervisors who do not respond or do not respond adequately to the signals from the Central Fund on intermediaries. In any case, the supervisor can act independently of the fit and clean test. The Central Fund can act in front of the home corporation supervisor, so the supervisory board. In addition, of course, a crucial part of this fit and clean test is knowledge of finance and the functioning of financial markets. That also means that you become a serious opponent of such an intermediary. It is therefore logical that you ask the question what this intermediary adds and whether the accounts you receive are reasonable. In this context, Mr Verhoeven asked about financial expertise, along the same lines that will be reviewed. In addition, members of supervisory boards who are also members of the Association of Supervisors in Housing Corporations are also obliged by that membership to continue education. Both from the legislator and from the sector itself, therefore, there has been a real tightening up of measures to this end. Mr Ronnes asked if there were any signs of new incidents. When it comes to the investigation of intermediaries, there are no new incidents. Four forensic investigations have now been completed and no new criminal offences have been committed. There are three more investigations currently under way by the D.A.'s office. If the question is wider, namely whether there are any signals about other fraud incidents, I would remind the House a few months ago of signals that there may be fraud with the STEP scheme, the energy saving subsidy scheme. There is, therefore, also an ongoing investigation in this context. It is true that the whole sector does not give cause for concern, but this illustrates once again that, because of the large sums of money involved, it is a vulnerable sector. Mr Ronnes also asked about the possibility to invoke a legal nullity for supervisory restrictions. I've already indicated they've been banned from housing corporations. If the question is whether I want to ban them at all in credit agreements, my answer would be "no." In the case of ordinary lending to an enterprise.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... If you banned that, you would create a serious barrier to lending to companies. I think that Mr Ronnes regards this as a serious consequence. Mr Van der Linde asked if the negative market value of 900 million disappeared public money. That's not true. At the time the contracts were concluded, the interest rate was higher. If you were to break those contracts, because interest rates are now lower, a total fee of 900 million would have to be paid. That was also the reason for my reply to Mrs Karabulut. She wasn't entirely happy with that, but that's the damage you're most likely to have to pay. However, when simply serving out the contract, this is not damage that goes out cash. It only shows the difference between the interest rate at the time of closing and the interest rate that is calculated if you would currently take out a loan. Mr Van der Linde asked when I would come forward with the promised proposals for monitoring the Guarantee Fund. I promised to do that in May and that month is not over. I still intend to do that. Mr De Graaf called on me not only to step up the rules as they have been in the meantime, but above all to ensure that the monitoring and imposition of sanctions really gets hands and feet. I agree with him. That is what we are doing by ensuring that supervision is organized differently. And because of the placement at the Inspection Environment and Transport, there is also really an intelligence and investigation service. I have also indicated that the capacity of this monitoring will be increased in the coming years. I hope I have answered the questions in the first place.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u39	I asked a question about the AMvBs. On the basis of this case, reflecting on the letter from the Central Fund Housing, is it necessary to tighten up? I'm stuck with the members of the supervisory boards of these eighteen corporations. The Minister and I may disagree. I do not want to intervene in individual cases, but I find 18 corporations with the same problem, namely negligence, no longer an individual case, all the more so since we have seen the enormous consequences this could have for the system. What should happen to those members of the supervisory boards of those eighteen corporations? Should they be relieved of their duties? Do they have to go to training? What are we going to do about it? They have shown that, despite all the signals that were there, even in March 2015, long after the Committee of Inquiry had reported, they still did not realise that it was time for change.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u40	Mr Monasch is right that I did not answer his question on the AMvB. We have had a debate on the AMvB. It is now in the lap of the Council of State. It doesn't suit me to rush the board, but the board knows that implementation is planned as of 1 July. I have received signals that the AMvB is back before that date and can therefore enter into force. When it comes to the members of the supervisory boards of housing corporations, I refer to the fit and clean test, to which they will all be subjected. It is very obvious that in such a test, such a conversation is considered what someone can and what someone has done. Without me at the table, the supervisor will, of course, also look at what happened at the corporation and the role of the members of the supervisory boards. Sounds like an open door to me. It seems to me to be one of the most essential parts of the fit and clean test.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u41	There are two different groups of supervisory board members coming to that fit and clean test. One group has proven to be negligent, the other has behaved neatly. What are we doing with that group that has proven to be negligent? What are we doing with the people who simply hoarded up their fees and allowed and allowed all this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u42	Whether someone is suitable is judged by the supervisor in such a conversation. As it should be, there is then a situation of hearing and hearing again. That must show that someone has indeed been negligent. I do not think that I can say from behind the cathedral in advance that every supervisor of such a corporation has per se been negligent. I can say from here on, however, that it is logical and inevitable that in that fit and clean test this is an essential part of the conversation. There has been a clear judgement from the supervisor. How did you deal with that? Maybe there'll be a plausible answer. The supervisor must then have the space to consider that. Maybe there won't be a plausible answer. And then the supervisor has every right to say: then you are not fit and clean.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u43	I still lack answers to two questions. Is the fit and clean test operational on 1 July? Do derivative contracts, the terms of which are currently hampered, date before the date of September 2012 or are contracts concluded after that date?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u44	I have answered the second question to Mrs Karabulut. As far as the first question is concerned, it was before Mr Ronnes' time that I rushed the Chamber about the speedy implementation of this law. Actually, my goal was 1 January, but because we wanted to take the results of the survey with us understandably, it became 1 July. I am pleased that Mr Ronnes, on behalf of the CDA, also expresses this urgency. In the past, I've had to put a little pressure on it. This also means that the performers of the various components, including the supervisor, know that the fit and clean test must be carried out. As always when there's a deadline, it happens with a little squeaking and cracking. They come to me sometimes to say it's a lot. Then my reaction is: yes, but I also think it is very important that, after all these discussions and all those issues that have gone too often, we should now carry out the fit and clean test. So my commitment remains: starting with the fit and clean test on 1 July.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u45	I asked two questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u46	I indicated that I answered the second question in my response to Mrs Karabulut's contribution. That answer was: it's old contracts. So they were covered by the old regime.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u47	This brings us to the end of the government's first term. There is a need for a second deadline.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u48	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister and his staff for their reply. One question remains, namely the role of intermediaries. Of course, they can still be active in derivatives that we do allow. What is known about that? Are these fraudulent intermediaries still active with derivatives that we consider to be less exotic but which are still derivatives? Those traders have proven in the past not to be reliable. Are these figures still active in the derivatives trade that we do allow? I'd like to get a reaction to that. I doubt for a moment whether I should table a motion on the next point. Has the Minister informed his fellow health and education ministers that these fraudulent intermediaries play a role in their sector? I am glad that the CFV passed that on to the inspection, but it seems to me that it is also important for the Minister to pass this on to his colleagues. I'm filing a motion on the 18 boards of supervision of corporations. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in 18 corporations integrity violations have been detected by the supervisor who led to further fraud investigations into derivatives;]] [[Whereas the supervisory authority considers that the directors and members of the supervisory board concerned had no idea of what might be happening or how serious they could be downplayed in advance;]] [[Whereas society does not benefit from ill-functioning directors and supervisors in the corporate sector;]] [[calls on the Government to carry out further assessment of all the directors and supervisors involved in these 18 corporations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Monasch. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29453-385]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u49	Mr. Chairman. I still miss the answers to some of my questions. When can the Court see the results of the forensic investigation into those 18 corporations? How will the Minister further inform us about the prevention, detection and prosecution of this type of fraud in the corporate sector? The parliamentary committee of inquiry recommended that this be done annually. What about the implementation of the Karabulut/Van Vliet motion on ex ante review to prevent corporations from engaging in toxic financial products? I'll file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are still 21 housing corporations holding derivatives with supervisory restrictions, including seven of ABN AMRO, which entail financial and integrity risks;]] [[calls on the government to appeal to banks for their social responsibility and to encourage them to participate in the removal of these supervisory barriers in derivatives portfolios, and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Karabulut and Mr Monasch. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29453-386]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u50	The Minister understands it very well, but he does not want to say it: it is not about entering into individual contracts or breaking individual contracts. The point is that the minister should be able to carry out supervision as responsible for the system and that he should call on the banks to cooperate in removing the obstacles that are possible to properly implement supervision.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u51	I think it is a sympathetic motion by Mrs Karabulut. I didn't sign her because I have the next question. She doesn't want to enter into individual contracts, because she understands that she can't. And that's a good thing. She wants a collective approach to the problem, but what does she do if the problem consists of all different situations that resemble each other? What is the collective solution Mrs Karabulut is going to be like? Is this also likely to cause problems for other corporations by having to meet a collective solution with which the Minister has been working with these other corporations?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u52	I think Mr Verhoeven does not fully understand it or I do not fully understand it. That's why I love to explain it again. I am concerned about those banks that do not want to cooperate in removing those regulatory restrictions. What that solution should look like, we know. That should be cooperation, but these banks do not want it. The Minister must appeal to these banks on their responsibility to cooperate. What is then the resultant and what choices need to be made is a question for the parties who sit at the table with each other. Of course, the supervisor is involved. Take ABN AMRO. That's a state bank that's been saved with a lot of billions, and it's about to lose to all of us. Indeed, that bank cooperated in an aggressive way to promote such products. She did so knowingly, because ABN AMRO knew that these parties were not specialists. This bank must also show: we understand people.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u53	Mr Verhoeven!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u54	These banks must show that they do not burden these corporations with all the misery: we get it and we are going to cooperate in a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u55	As I said earlier, Mrs Karabulut's thinking is very sympathetic. I would like to support that, because I also believe that the banks in general and ABN AMRO as a state bank should have a moral compass in particular. They should do everything in their power not to allow social capacity to evaporate. I fully agree with Mrs Karabulut, but these are just words. There are 21 corporations with contract portfolios with supervisory restrictions. Does Mrs Karabulut think they all look the same? Is it not possible that individual tailor-made work is needed to solve the problem? In other words, I wonder whether a collective solution is possible. It would be nice if Mrs Karabulut did not start her answer with: Mr Verhoeven probably does not understand. Mr Verhoeven understands perfectly; he only asks Mrs Karabulut a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u56	But Mr Verhoeven is asking a question about a proposal that I have not made. Maybe he's talking to himself. I'm fine with that, too, because that's pretty interesting. The point is that banks must cooperate in resolving certain obstacles. They should be working together at all. What comes out next is verse two. I understand that Mr Verhoeven wants to talk about this in particular, but that is not what the motion is about. Perhaps, perhaps, Mr Verhoeven could at least support the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u57	Mr Verhoeven, your turn is now for your second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u58	After this series of interruptions, I renounce a second term. I'm all over it. Mrs Karabulut has made it clear to me from all sides that perhaps I should try it out. I do. I am being modest, and this time I will confine myself to listening to the Minister's reaction to Mrs Karabulut's motion. I will then take a wise decision on whether or not to support her motion. I welcome the motion, but I do hope it will be enforceable as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u59	I think this was a bit of a second term, but from behind the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u60	Mr. Chairman. An important question from the CDA on the regulatory provisions is unanswered. Are such provisions prohibited both in the corporate sector and in other sectors, yes or no? If that is not the case, we intend to table a motion to the effect that the Minister is going to work on a legal measure which would make this type of contract with regulatory provisions impossible. As regards the motion calling on the government to carry out a fitness check on the directors and supervisors involved in the eighteen corporations, I have to say that in my first term I have spoken about the possibility that directors will be relieved of their duties if they do conclude contracts of this kind. The question is whether there is support for asking the Minister in the form of a motion for a resolution to see whether the possibilities for doing so can be worked out. So I have two motions to consider.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u61	We have two deadlines. If you have a motion, you can file it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u62	Then I'll read my motions now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u63	I think that's very wise. You can always keep them or withdraw them, but there is no third term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u64	My first motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that no sector under supervision should be subject to supervisory restrictions in derivative contracts and other contracts, as they undermine the core of the public system;]] [[calls on the Government to propose a legislative measure declaring this type of contract to be void under Dutch law,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Ronnes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29453-387]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u65	The second motion is next. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that no sector under supervision should be subject to supervisory restrictions in derivative contracts and other contracts, as they undermine the core of the public system;]] [[calls on the Government to propose a legislative measure to remove directors of organisations from their duties immediately if it appears that they have concluded such contracts,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Ronnes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29453-388]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u66	Mr. Chairman. The VVD has no objection to the use of derivatives to cover operational risks. In the case of corporations, this will be mainly interest rate risks. However, it must be done properly, with expertise, integrity and, above all, awareness, and not only with the proverbial Mr.Jansen on the second floor of the housing corporation, but especially with the internal supervisor, the supervisory board. When I get this straight, we have taken a whole series of measures that will make it possible for us to ensure that Mr. Jansen is no longer in the picture. It'll never prove enough. Something may always go wrong, but for the time being I have the feeling that we are doing enough to deal with the abuses, no matter how painful it is that contracts are still running. When I look at the motions, I think we are very much forcing the Minister to sit back on the supervisor's seat. My idea would be: let's not do that. But I like to wait. One more question was open to me: can we assume that the new supervisor will just deliver a report every year, an annual report, in which we can read back these things? That's all it was.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u67	This brings us to the end of the second term of office. I understand the Minister can answer directly. So he has the floor. We owe him two more motions, but they're being copied now. They're coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u68	Mr. Chairman. I'll start with answers. A number of questions have been asked, and I have two motions to which I can now respond. The others are coming. First of all, Mr Monasch asked whether fraud intermediaries were still active. Intermediaries suspected of having committed criminal offences have been reported to the corporate sector. So they will be able to avoid it from now on. Mr Monasch also asked whether the other ministers concerned in whose areas there may be risks were informed. I have indicated that the supervisor has informed the fellow supervisors. Along that line, the information has arrived on the spot. Mr Monasch has tabled a motion calling on the government to carry out further research into all the directors and supervisors involved in the eighteen corporations where, according to the motion, integrity violations have been detected. Let me begin with the factual remark that you cannot say so loudly that there have been violations of integrity in eighteen corporations. There was reason for further investigation and I indicated in the first period that a number of investigations have been completed, but the first observation is factually incorrect. You can't say that so loudly. The government is also asked to take action in the supervisory field. The Chamber has often asked me to provide an absolutely independent supervisor. I have always indicated that I am in agreement with the Chamber in this regard. This also means, however, that I will advise against motions asking the Minister for something that lies on the way of the supervisor, because I will then be asked to interfere in individual supervisory matters. For both reasons, I advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u69	This will increasingly become a problem in this house: how are we going to fill this out? For one corporation, I'm willing to go along with that, but for 18 corporations, I think that's something else. Perhaps we should discuss this with the Minister, or should we say: does the government request that the Chamber's wishes be passed on to the supervisor? I would be happy to have a motion adopted here: ask the supervisor to take note of the opinion of the Chamber. Is that the way to show us displeasure? We were not allowed to interfere with the merger of Habion and Housing Care, but we did. We have sent out a clear social signal and within a week that merger was over. That tastes like more, not to interfere in business, but to send out clear social signals, because we are ultimately the representatives of the people here. It's not just about one corporation, it's about 18 corporations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u70	Mr Monasch is right to solve the problem in the relationship between the minister and the supervisor. It is no longer a question for the Minister to put pressure on a supervisor, but for a signal that does land there knowing the supervisor, one is now listening with the formal way to get there. That does not alter my first observation that you cannot say so loudly that there were 18 integrity violations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u71	Mr Monasch, would you not like to re-examine the debate, but simply refer to the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u72	Maybe that's okay. Then let this motion be the litmus test. I will revise it to meet this. Then we in the Chamber can form our own judgement on how we stand in this relationship with the supervisor, when it comes to multiple cases. I still have a question for the Minister. Surely it is not possible that these eighteen Members of this House, as far as I am concerned, have shown that there are 17 Members of this House who are clearly negligent and that they are treated in the same way as the supervisory boards which have taken a decent view of their duties? I miss that signal with the supervisor or with the minister. In this context, I also have an answer from the Minister to my question as to whether he can also tell us about the investigation of the Public Prosecutor's Office which is now under way at the request of the CFV.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u73	I can't make any announcements about the D.A.'s investigation. This is always the case in ongoing investigations. I will ask the Central Fund for Housing to publish the results of investigations at the time they are there. I therefore immediately answered Mrs Karabulut's first question. She also asked me how the motion she tabled together with Mr Van Vliet on the ex ante control of financial products was implemented. That motion has been taken over in the General Measure of Management which I submitted to the Chamber. With the entry into force of the General Measure of Governance on 1 July, the content of the motion will also have the force of law. Mr Ronnes asked for an annual report on integrity.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u74	What is the Minister's opinion on the Karabulut/Monasch motion on item No. 386?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u75	It invites the government to address banks on their social responsibility and to encourage them to participate in the removal of supervisory barriers in derivatives portfolios and to inform the Court of Justice about them. I do not think it is right for a minister to enter into individual relationships between banks and housing corporations. I have to ensure the right legislative framework, I have to make sure that the supervisor can do his job properly, but I am not going to enter into individual negotiating situations. That's why I have to discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u76	Mrs Karabulut, you may ask a question about the motion, but I would ask you not to repeat the discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u77	I'd like to make a correction for the third time. I hope that the Minister will take over clearly now, including in his articulation. It is not a question of entering into individual situations. It is important, as the regulator also notes, that there are a number of banks, including ABN AMRO, which do not cooperate in resolving that supervisory obstacle clause which may not allow the supervisor to fully assess certain risks. The Minister is responsible for that. I am a bit shocked because the Minister is running away or perhaps afraid to appeal to the apparently very powerful banking sector for his responsibility to cooperate in finding solutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u78	In my view, no minister has taken as many supervisory measures in the housing corporation sector as this minister, but it is not appropriate that a minister should always take action in individual cases. I have changed that in every debate with the Chamber. In the way in which we have governed our society, that is really wrong. Then you should also send home the director and supervisory board of a housing corporation and say: we think that we from The Hague can better ensure that money is borrowed and housing is built than you can locally. I do not share that world view with Mrs Karabulut, but that implies this motion. That's why I betrayed her.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u79	A minister who is responsible for living and who has to eliminate billions of social damage does not fit to look away and crawl under the table because he does not want to appeal to banks on their responsibility to cooperate in solving wrong deals. That's it. It's about cooperating on solutions to wrong deals. It's not about individual cases. This does not fit in with a minister who has indeed supported the improvements. This is very disappointing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u80	We are dealing here with the 18 individual cases that we have on the table. Otherwise, this debate would not have been there and this motion would not have been there. So I stick to my point: general regulation and good supervision can be expected from me................................................................................................................................................................................................... Then I come to Mr Van der Linde and Mr Ronnes' question on how integrity is dealt with in the report. In spring, I will give the Chamber the state of the housing market, of which integrity will also be an essential part. In addition, the Authority will publish an annual report independently. Again, I am not going to interfere in the substance of this, but I would be very surprised if the issue of integrity were not taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u81	Mr Ronnes served in part No. 387 in which the government is asked to propose a legislative measure declaring derivative contracts and other contracts with supervisory restrictions null and void under Dutch law. For the corporation sector, which we are talking about here, these constructions are already prohibited. In that respect, this motion is superfluous. As far as she'd have a broader scope, I'd have to advise her not to. For I do not think it is logical that we should say here, without seeing the consequences for lending in general, that any provision will be prohibited for all sectors in the Netherlands. But I know that it is no longer necessary for the corporation sector. On balance, I'm gonna have to dissuade the motion. Mr Ronnes served in part No. 388 a motion calling on the government to propose a legislative measure which would immediately relieve directors of organisations of their duties when concluding such contracts. Again, we are dealing with contracts with regulatory restrictions. Again, for the corporation sector, these provisions are already prohibited. The moment they close, the supervisor will act. I can very well imagine that this action could mean that the director or supervisor in question would be dismissed from a corporation. But this is also true of the functioning of the rule of law, which we are not going to decide here in the Lower House how a supervisor or a judge acts in case A, B or C. However, we give the supervisor the tools to act. We have already explicitly banned the point that we both want to avoid regulatory restrictions. I must dissuade this motion, on balance, because it is asking for something that really does not fit into the rule of law and which is not necessary, because we have already been able to close down those blocking provisions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-5.u82	Next Tuesday we will vote on the motions tabled.
