ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u1	Mr. Chairman. The aim of the Innovation Box scheme is to stimulate research and business development. The Minister knows the CDA as a party that stands out for SMEs and asks again and again how the scheme works for SMEs. And in that the CDA is not alone in this Chamber, because several other parties always ask a lot of questions about it. In January, a letter from the cabinet showed that 60% of this scheme benefited large companies. Dagblad Trouw now publishes that there are interview reports in Brussels that would show that there is a different picture than the one that sketches the letter we received earlier this year. The question is, therefore, what are the correct figures and whether or not the budget under this Innovation Box will reach SMEs. So are the data presented by the Netherlands in October 2014 in the secret Brussels consultation the same figures as those received by the Chamber in January? Is it true, for example, that 60% of the budget of the Innovation Box reaches the large company or is that percentage higher, as those secret call reports would show? How can SMEs still barely benefit from the Innovation Box? Is the Minister also prepared to adapt the Innovation Box so that SMEs can make greater use of it? We see that the budget costs of the Innovation Box have increased. From 345 million in 2010 to 852 million in 2012. We also wonder about the years 2013 and 2014. By the way, what would the Minister be satisfied with for the year 2015?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Mulder asks whether the figures are comparable and whether they are the same. That's not true. It was estimates made at different times. Both times an estimate has been made as good as possible, but the groups on which the figures were seen are not quite the same. One time it was about the top 100 of the companies, another time it was about the foreign companies and another time it was about the large company. These figures are then always aimed at a particular group as well as possible. However, with the fact that it was different groups and the fact that it happened at different times, the figures are not entirely comparable. One of them accounted for 60% use of the Innovation Box for large companies, the other 70% use of the Innovation Box for large companies. What it really is, I don't know. This must be demonstrated by the evaluation of the Innovation Box that is currently under way. The first evaluation of the Innovation Box we get is almost complete. I think it'll be at the Chamber around the turn of the year. We will then get the right figures out of that. We must realise that we have different instruments for business in terms of stimulating innovation and research and development. We have the top sectors policy, we have the Wbso/RDA and we have the Innovation Box. I think the big business is using the Innovation Box more than proportionally. I believe that SMEs use the Wbso/RDA much more than proportionally. All in all, I think there is a balanced system of instruments, which is also used proportionally by the various groups. The precise figures will be reflected in the evaluation, which will be with the Chamber at the turn of the year, as has been said.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u3	A question that is still open to us is whether the companies using the Innovation Box in the Netherlands should actually engage in economic activities in the Netherlands. I would like an answer from the Minister, because in the end, of course, we have these tax advantages in order to promote innovation and create jobs here. Would the Minister like to comment on this? Will this point also be explicitly reflected in the evaluation that is still coming to the House of Representatives?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u4	Yeah, that's an important point. The Innovation Box indeed looks at products produced in the Netherlands. It is therefore not possible for there to be a patent somewhere abroad that is housed at a Dutch paper subsidiary of a multinational company using the Innovation Box. These must be innovative products that have been developed in the Netherlands. It is good to realise that we are also discussing an important location factor here. The Innovation Box not only facilitates innovative business in the Netherlands. We also use the box as an important argument to attract companies from abroad to the Netherlands in competition with other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u5	As SMEs play such an important role as the engine of our economy, the CDA would like to know whether the Minister is still prepared to extend the Innovation Box scheme for SMEs to at least 50. The evaluation should show whether it benefits innovation in the Netherlands. If it really turns out to be just letterbox companies that come here to collect the tax benefits and not provide employment, I, as a CDA, have difficulty with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u6	I have just been able to say in reply to the previous question that it is not just foreign letterbox companies that are here to collect the tax benefits. They are therefore products, innovation products, which have been produced in the Netherlands. I am not prepared to say anything about the Innovation Box that I can say better after the evaluation has become available. So let's wait and see. I think it is justified that the Wbso/RDA benefits SMEs for two thirds, while it only does 40% of the research and development in the Netherlands. You will then see that the Innovation Box may end up more than proportional to the large business. All in all, this can provide a balanced picture. In my opinion, it does the same. We are sure that when we have the results of the evaluation available.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u7	In many years of debates in the Chamber, the Minister has always said that a large part of the Innovation Box goes to small and medium-sized enterprises. That was always his story. That's what the Chamber had to do. Now the Minister says: no, a large part of the Innovation Box goes to large business, but there are other schemes and they go to SMEs. My question to the Minister is whether he is prepared to send Trouw's documents to the House of Representatives, so that we can soon have a debate on the real facts and figures relating to the Innovation Box. We want to see how we can ensure that small and medium-sized enterprises will also benefit from this scheme. This seems to be less and less the case now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u8	I will see how I can respond to the information needs of the Chamber. Mr Verhoeven's question is clear to me and I shall see what can be done about it. The letter sent to the Chamber in January 2015 already indicated that we had the impression that 60% of the Innovation Box benefited the large company on the basis of an estimate. Another calculation at another time has reached a higher percentage. What is the right percentage will have to be demonstrated in the evaluation. I think you should look at the whole thing. You need to look at the top sectors policy, with the specific arrangements that go with it for SMEs. You should also look at Wbso/RDA, which is the largest budget and where there is a large over-representation of SMEs. You should also look at the Innovation Box. Then you have to see whether this ultimately leads to justice for SMEs in the Netherlands and to justice for large companies. We have an interest in that, too. Big business isn't a dirty word. We must also consider whether we have such a package of instruments that foreign companies that are important for Dutch employment and Dutch prosperity choose the Netherlands as their location.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u9	The Minister is now introducing a new policy objective. There has to be a little balance between Wbso and Innovation Box. If you look at the gross mode, everyone will come to their liking. The question is, of course, whether this should be a priority. The question is: should we not invest in SMEs? Should SMEs not have much more access to the Innovation Box? It doesn't fit to say: in other places there are some resources. The question must be: where can we best achieve innovation? When you see that the large business has easy access to capital and has large own research departments, it is not much more about the answer to the question: Minister, how are you going to change that, so that SMEs also have much more access to the resources from the Innovation Box?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u10	What we are or are not going to change in the Innovation Box is best discussed when we have the evaluation available. I do not think it would be wise to comment on this at this stage. However, I think it would be a big mistake to pretend that the big business is some kind of dirty word. In large companies, they are companies that can keep up with international competition. These companies are a major driver of innovation in the Netherlands. For employment in the Netherlands, we have a strong interest in ensuring that such large companies remain in the Netherlands and continue to carry out their research and development activities in the Netherlands. That is why I want to pay attention to SMEs as well as to large businesses. I also look at the whole range of instruments we have in the Netherlands, to persuade companies from abroad to come to the Netherlands. Foreign companies in the Netherlands are responsible for a very large proportion of employment and for a very large part of our national prosperity.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u11	Big companies have a better chance of getting credit. A number of studies have shown this. They also have more financial opportunities. The wish of the Chamber was precisely to give the small entrepreneur more innovation resources and more credit. Now research shows that you have not yet achieved that objective. What are you going to do, in concrete terms, to stand up for the small businessman?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u12	I do not understand what the appropriations, the financing, the heme have to do. I do understand that the biggest budget available to stimulate innovation is the budget for Wbso and RDA. Those are the big tax incentives we have. 66% of the total amount will be made available to SMEs, while SMEs account for 41% of research and development. So you see that a disproportionate proportion goes to SMEs. I think this is very good because of the importance of SMEs for innovation. However, we also need to assess the whole in order to draw a good conclusion about the positive effects of the Dutch innovation efforts and the stimulation by the Dutch government of innovation efforts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-4.u13	Thank you for your answers and thanks for coming to the Chamber. We shall continue with the third and final series of questions in today's Question Time.
