ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-8.u1	I would like to welcome all those present in the Chamber, particularly the Prime Minister. He has announced that he would like to begin reading a statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-8.u2	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by expressing my deep appreciation for Wilma Mansveld's commitment in recent years. She has worked with her heart and soul to solve the problems that were in her wallet. The cabinet loses a hard-working and motivated colleague, which is never easy. Earlier this afternoon, Wilma Mansveld himself concluded that the Committee of Inquiry's report left her no other option than to offer her resignation to the King. I can only respect that decision. I believe that the way she did it was very worthy. She used the consideration that the Fyra dossier is a long-term issue and that it is appropriate in our political relations that a ruler should be responsible not only for his or her own decisions and actions but also for those of predecessors. With her resignation, she has expressed this in the most far-reaching way. The cabinet will now carefully and thoroughly examine the report of the Committee of Inquiry. Of course, we'll come to the Chamber later with a reaction. That means that I do not want to anticipate the content of the report today. Today, respect for Wilma Mansveld's decision fits.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-8.u3	Let us now begin on the first term of office. First of all, Mr Pechtold of D66 has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-8.u4	Mr. Chairman. Today, the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry Fyra presented its detailed report with harsh conclusions. The debate on the content of that report will be extended here at a later date. The Prime Minister already indicated that. Some of the conclusions relate to the role of the State Secretary for Infrastructure and the Environment. This concerns both its political responsibility for what has happened in this file for 15 years and its own role, particularly in the provision of information to the Chamber. Because of that last point, the Secretary of State rightly resigned today. My group respects this decision and thanks it for all its efforts. It is good that the Prime Minister is here now and is accountable. This is a tradition that we must honour when a ruler resigns. That is also purely state law. However, I would have liked that tradition to have been held in honour by the Secretary of State herself and that she had announced her departure, as it should have been, here in the Chamber. Why is there no such thing? Does the Prime Minister share the Secretary of State's view that a govern ment is not only responsible for what he or she decides, but also for what he or she finds? The Prime Minister quoted it himself. What does that mean for the predecessor of the Secretary of State on this dossier, the current Minister? An important conclusion of the report concerns the inadequate provision of information to the Court. Unfortunately, that is a recurring pattern in this cabinet. I refer only to the Cees H. affair, which caused this Prime Minister to lose his two rulers of Security and Justice. So there is a recurring pattern. The Committee of Inquiry cracked critical notes about Minister Schultz and Minister Dijsselbloem everywhere. Doesn't that worry the Prime Minister? And how is he going to better guarantee this constitutional duty? The last point on which I address this Prime Minister is his role as a formattor who was aiming for a minimum occupation of his cabinet. There's another ruler leaving today with an overcrowded wallet. That happened to Secretary of State Weekers before. Secretary of State Dijkhoff recently rejected parts of his portfolio to the Minister. The new Secretary of State of I and M must deal with the misery on the trail of ProRail and NS, with the problems surrounding Schiphol and Air France-KLM, with the safety of airspace, with the handling of MH17 and with the climate agreement in Paris. Isn't that a lot for a Secretary of State, especially since the Minister with a financially empty wallet doesn't do much more than reveal mileage signs? Does the Prime Minister address this situation for a redeployment of portfolios, so that a better balance can be struck between the workload of the Minister and that of the Secretary of State? I'm closing up. Secretary of State Mansveld said at her arrival: the traveler stands with me on one, two and three. However, the passengers are now waiting for the platforms 1, 2 and 3. Train passengers and public transport are again the victims. Changing that should be priority number one after tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-8.u5	Madam President. The state law that applies to the retention or departure of a ruler is clear and, in fact, very clear. We know in our state system the unwritten negative rule of confidence: a ruler has proved the trust of the Chamber until proven otherwise. This afternoon we experienced that Secretary of State Mansveld left after at the beginning of the afternoon a fairly solid report had appeared from the committee that investigated the debacle around the Fyra. So you could say that her departure is at odds with that unwritten rule, because it has not yet been established in Parliament that the trust was no longer there. However, I have also listened carefully to her statement of reasons, which I have no doubt was true. In the end, she saw no other way than to submit her resignation to the King. From this place, I say we respect that decision. In recent years, the Christian Union has come to know her as a driven ruler, but it has become a ruler with a portfolio that has almost succumbed to the past. You might say that they eventually succumbed to that, too. We wish her all the best. I advise the cabinet to resume the open space as soon as possible. Of course, the coalition parties are about that, but that place in the cabinet needs to be filled in again. There are major issues. Mr Pechtold has rightly pointed out that if the traveller is really on one side, everything must be done to get to work on the recommendations of the report, which we will discuss later, and to really tackle the major problems on the track, on the NS, on ProRail and so on. That goes beyond this debate, but the responsibility to get to work with it, to ensure that there is another ruler who can take that up, lies now with the responsible coalition parties and ultimately with the cabinet. I call on them to take that up as a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-8.u6	Madam President. The report of the Committee of Inquiry has made it clear that the House of Representatives has repeatedly been misinformed, incorrect and incompletely informed. The committee has serious political judgements. The conclusion of the Secretary of State of I and M to therefore quit is the only correct conclusion. It is clear from the Committee of Inquiry's report that the interests of the traveller have been seriously neglected by errors and wrong decisions by both the State and the Dutch Railways. The committee has strong political judgements. At different times, stakeholders could and should have made a different choice. The passenger stood and stood because of the lack of alternatives to the high-speed line in the cold. This should have been avoided. In addition to proper consideration of the conclusions of the Committee of Inquiry, it is particularly important that the traveller no longer suffers from the errors that have accumulated in the Fyra dossier. As soon as possible, a full-fledged high-speed line should be envisaged. Moreover, the interests which the Secretary of State for I and M must safeguard are broader than just the Fyra dossier. The problems in this file cannot therefore be completely separated from the lingering difficulties on the other files that the Secretary of State had in her portfolio. ProRail has also found shortcomings in recent times, which need to be resolved quickly because they affect the functioning of our entire rail transport system. In addition, the future of our aviation, which is of great economic value, needs to be better guaranteed. The CDA has repeatedly pointed this out to the cabinet, but no action has been taken. There is a great challenge for this cabinet to take steps quickly. For this reason, the CDA has previously drawn attention to the redistribution of portfolios within I and M. I ask the Prime Minister to look at this again now, so as to avoid problems in the future. The interests of the new Secretary of State are too great to continue in the current division. Is the Prime Minister prepared to do this? Finally. The recommendations and conclusions of the Committee of Inquiry deserve to be discussed very thoroughly in this Chamber. I hope that we will soon be able to move on with a new ruler.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-8.u7	Mr. Chairman. Today, the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and the Environment has actually done the only thing left after the solid report issued by the Committee of Inquiry. She filed her resignation. Of course we have great respect for that and we thank her for all her efforts and for all the work she has done in recent times. She has taken full responsibility for the mistakes in this painful file of her own, but also of her predecessors. We will talk about this in detail later. The big question is, what's next? In our view, part of this debacle is the distorted portfolio distribution between the Minister and the Secretary of State. And I think that is going to be the thread of this debate. One complication is that according to the report, the Minister of I and M, as Secretary of State under the previous portfolio distribution, has been politically responsible for the contested decisions in the Fyra file. The Secretary of State has resigned in order not to stand in the way of a fruitful debate on the Fyra dossier. Should we not reconsider the distribution of the portfolio when the new executive is in office, so that the new Secretary of State can concentrate mainly on the major problems on the railways? Should the Minister not concentrate on the climate issue himself? In six weeks' time, one of the most important climate summits will start, and we really need to achieve results. At what time will the new ruler take office? The government must move quickly on to the urgent issues of this ministry. Finally. Misinformation of the Chamber seems to be a trend. This has played a role in almost all of the members of the government who have resigned in recent times. What is the Prime Minister's opinion on this? And what is he going to do about improving the provision of information to the House of Representatives?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-8.u8	Mr. Chairman. Today was the presentation of the Fyra study, and the conclusions are tough. The cabinet has provided the Chamber with selective, incorrect or misleading information. The departure of Secretary of State Mansveld had thus become inevitable. I have understanding and respect for her decision. Now everyone is wondering who else is responsible for this. It is absolutely necessary to clarify this, but this is not the subject of the debate this evening. We've come to talk about the report in detail. We're not gonna do that now, we're gonna do that later. The Chamber can only control the government if it gets the right information. However, during this reign we have already seen several examples of incomplete or incorrect information. Think of defense, where toxic substances were used for years. The Ministry of Defence was informed and did not inform the Chamber or incompletely. Think about the pgbs. Secretary of State Van Rijn repeatedly pulled up smokescreens and sent half of the information to the Chamber. Think about the drug deal with the former minister of security and justice with Cees H. Yes, that was a nice slip. The Chamber was misinformed. Think also of the subsequent executive at this ministry, who went to hell in Question Time about photos of Volkert van der G. Of course also think about the survey on housing corporations or the misery at ProRail. I would like to receive a response from the Prime Minister on time and again incorrect and incomplete information to the Chamber. Add the departure of Verdaas, Weekers, Opstelten, Teeven and now Mansveld. How does the Prime Minister himself feel about this? In recent years, we have had a whole series of parliamentary surveys: the study of housing corporations, the study of the financial system and now the study of the failure called 'Fyra'. Our colleagues in the First Chamber have examined the politics of the last 30 years in which the political sector has been marketed. The conclusion is always the same: the marketing of the political cause puts costs on society, breaks down solidarity and reduces the quality of society. All parties that have supported this policy for years should first look in the mirror. How can we prevent politics from remaining under the banner of the market in the future? How can we increase democratic control on all these important issues? We now know: a person is more than a consumer, an animal is more than a patch of meat and a country is more than an e.g. The school is not a market and care is not a product. How many parliamentary surveys are needed to see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-8.u9	Mr. Chairman. We regret that Secretary of State Mansveld had to leave, but it was inevitable. Nevertheless, we respect her commitment to this dossier. This time the train has no delay, but unfortunately the destination is reached early. We want to call for an early solution. There are quite a few exchange and signal failures to solve on this long-term file. At what time can we expect a successor? Prime Minister, are you prepared to encourage your coalition party to seize this opportunity to bring more colour into the cabinet? We saw Secretary of State Mansveld on TV this afternoon, but answer to the Chamber, not in the media or in the backrooms at Asscher and Samsom. There seems to be a culture of deception rather than a culture of transparency in politics in The Hague. As a kind of high-speed line, they run through democracy, not only this government, but also the previous government with CDA and PVV. We call on the Prime Minister to break that culture. Depending on his answers, we are considering a motion on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-8.u10	Mr. Chairman. Wilma Mansveld has always done her work with an incredibly great commitment and a deep sense of duty. From that same sense of duty, she concluded this afternoon that she would resign on the basis of the report of the Fyra Committee of Inquiry. We respect that decision. I also appreciate that with that decision she also takes political responsibility for what predecessors did on this dossier. May I add as a personal remark that we will miss Wilma Mansveld very much as a colleague and member of our team? A warmer personality was not found, because they are rare in this hard trade. She took responsibility and decided to resign because, as she herself said this afternoon, it would free the debate from the question of 'who should hang'. to the question "what should we do?" Others have already said that we must now engage in this debate with the Cabinet in full and in full, so that we can learn from all the other mistakes that have been noted in the report and which have not been discussed today. Let us do so quickly so that we can really improve business for the people of this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-8.u11	My respect for Mr Samsom's words. He is the political leader of the PvdA. Let me speak for myself, but a number of groups have made an analysis. This concerns not only today's report, but also a few observations made earlier, namely that the distribution of workload in the Ministry is quite uneven. Is the political leader of the PvdA in the interest of all these important dossiers, which I have also mentioned in my term, open to looking at the workload distribution between Minister and State Secretary?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-8.u12	I think you should always look at that and be open to anything. In the first instance, it is up to the Minister and Secretary of State, as is laid down in our constitutional law. In advance, I do not think that there has been a very unbalanced distribution. You can say that in the last two years there has been a lot of weight on one file, which happened to belong to this Secretary of State. At the beginning of this period the portfolio of water for the rail portfolio was more or less exchanged. In a country like the Netherlands, you can't say beforehand that the water portfolio is nothing. So I agree with the people who say that it gained a lot of political weight and became a heavy portfolio. But I would like to emphasise that all the portfolios in this cabinet have proved difficult.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-8.u13	The latter can be seen together. But I mention quite a few. Aviation, with Schiphol and KLM-Air France, the climate summit that will be there in a few weeks and the track with NS, ProRail, Fyra: it all needs to be solved. There is also the airspace, with the heavy report on MH17. Look at the division of work in, for example, last year. Then the Minister was in the Chamber and the Secretary of State 90 times; more than twice as many. You don't see that in any other department, and that's not a balanced distribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-8.u14	No, but ministers from other departments were in the Chamber more often. So I don't think we can create a kind of threshold and say: at more than 90 it's too much. It is also up to the Chamber and to the actual situation how that develops. I'm open to it in advance, as I said, but I'm leaving it with the cabinet under state law. In advance, however, I do not immediately see a reason to rehabilitate already. Let's just see how we can handle dossiers as well as possible politically.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-8.u15	Madam President. The Fyra report that was published today is a peppered report. It contains firm conclusions on shortcomings of successive rulers. It is not just a question of setting up blinders for different risks, but also of using words such as informing the Chamber "incorrect," "incomplete" and "untimely." That affects the crucial rule of trust. The Secretary of State had political responsibility for her own actions, but also for those of her predecessors. In addition, there was a lively debate with the Secretary of State on the progress of ProRail. In that light, the resignation of the Secretary of State is not a thunderbolt in the clear sky, but a good and understandable decision, which was in the political line of expectation. This will also prevent it from continuing as a drunken game. With all the more concentration, the debate can now be continued on the content, with the traveller at the centre. I would, however, like to join those who have said that it should be a good habit to resign as a result of linking political consequences to ministerial responsibility, preferably in the Chamber, rather than at a press conference. I say that in view of future situations. It would be good if the cabinet would stimulate that line. I hope, of course, for the cabinet, that this will not happen again in the short term, but it would be good to have a clear line for this in the future. Finally. The track record is and remains a difficult subject. We hope that a ruler will soon be attracted who will catch the cow by the horns and who will be able to contribute to a good public transport in our country. I would like to conclude by expressing a word of thanks to the resigned Secretary of State for her commitment and dedication to the public case in recent years. We wish her all the best.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-8.u16	Mr. Chairman. The resignation of Secretary of State Mansveld is quite justified. The Fyra report gives every reason to do so. Mrs Mansveld is not, by the way, the first ruler in this cabinet to resign after rumbling and fuss. Co Verdaas, Frans Weekers, Ivo Opstelten and Fred Teeven preceded Wilma Mansveld. The Prime Minister once said that the current cabinet is perhaps one of the best in terms of human composition since the Second World War. You've got to have the guts to say it. He couldn't have made a more unfortunate statement. No wonder the Prime Minister's confidence figure is now 3.9. A 3.9... It squeaks and it cracks and that's good, because it's for the Netherlands to hope that the whole cabinet will derail as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-8.u17	Mr. Chairman. I respect the Secretary of State, who takes political responsibility. It does, however, deprive itself of the opportunity to be politically accountable. From a legal point of view, I think that is a missed opportunity, as has been said by others. But every disadvantage has its advantage: we can now focus on the learning points that we can get from the Fyra survey report. In addition, this offers the House of Representatives the opportunity to do free-minded self-reflection. My group believes that the role of the political groups in this House should not be dismissed on page 462 of the report, but should be included in the main conclusion on page 1. So it's being prosecuted.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-8.u18	Mr. Chairman. Earlier today, the final report of the Committee of Inquiry into the Fyra became public. The Court's conclusion that the Court was incorrect and incompletely informed for the Secretary of State of I and M was the reason for making its position available. The VVD respects this decision. We thank Wilma Mansveld for her commitment to the public cause and wish her well. We wish her successor every success.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-8.u19	You finished your speech quite quickly on behalf of the VVD, but that's okay. I have a question about the distribution of portfolios in the Ministry. Is the VVD also open to thinking with the Prime Minister about a possible redistribution of portfolios?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-8.u20	The portfolio distribution is up to the directors and I think this is the right place.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-8.u21	You would say that in principle, but if we look at the past few years, we can see that this has not worked well for the rulers. I will reword the question: how does the VVD stand if the directors would redistribute the portfolios, which would mean that part of the portfolio of the former Secretary of State Mansveld would be transferred to that of Minister Schulz?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-8.u22	I could actually just say the same thing. The portfolio distribution is to the directors. I think there's a lot to say about portfolio distributions; that goes back and forth, I'd say. As Vice-President, too, I know that this is an issue. So I like to leave it where it belongs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-8.u23	Mr. Chairman. The Committee of Inquiry's report is solid. We've come to firm conclusions. We agree with these conclusions and with the analysis. Mrs Mansveld's departure was inevitable and sensible in our view. The problems on the railways are structural in nature and they are partly caused by the way in which they are organized. They didn't just lie with Mrs. Mansveld. In order to solve these problems on the track, a major reorganisation will have to take place. The question is, is this cabinet going to do that? Or is it just going to replace a doll and the traveler stays in the cold? I'd be happy to ask the Prime Minister that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-8.u24	This brought an end to the first term of the Chamber. The Prime Minister is already ready for his first-term response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-8.u25	Mr. Chairman. Three types of questions were asked and comments were made. Firstly, the portfolio distribution and the speed of the search for replacement have been addressed. Secondly, we have discussed the provision of information to the Chamber. Several speakers have highlighted trends and asked how we deal with them. The third type of question concerns the issue of the place where you announce your resignation. I shall begin with the question of portfolios and speed. We will, of course, be looking for a successor as soon as possible. I can't say exactly when that will be done. For this we always have to be careful about speed, but as always we are always looking for an optimal mix. I feel the need for many groups to have completed this important portfolio quickly again. I am encouraged to do so by the Chamber. I cannot mention a date, but it will be a matter of a combination of speed and care. It is true that the Minister and the Secretary of State will consider the portfolio distribution once the new Secretary of State is known. Then it will be examined what is desirable given the knowledge and experience of the new Secretary of State. In addition, the main rule is that you basically try to keep portfolios about the way they are, because people are also integrated. In addition, you naturally try to take into account specific preferences, talents and experiences. This can always lead to limited changes. I do not expect any major changes, but I also feel strongly supported by the Chamber to continue looking for the right balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-8.u26	I find this encouraging, because we are talking here with the political leader of the other narrow section. It may well be the case that a political division of three years ago leads to problems if you want to fly it from the point of view of content. A number of political groups have already mentioned it, and the Prime Minister is not directly saying that it is nonsense either. For the sake of content, because of the files that have increased considerably over the past three years rather than decreased, I would ask the Prime Minister not only to leave this to the two rulers, but in his role as a reformer and political leader to go a little further than just to watch.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-8.u27	Mr Pechtold knows that he should never encourage me to do more than just watch. As always, the entire direction will rest with me; Mr Pechtold can make sure of that. But you do try to do this within the framework of what is logical and desirable. I'm gonna take a look at the minister's wallet. The very large project to arrive at a successful implementation of the Environment Act is one of the biggest reforms of this cabinet... is still fully in the scaffolding. That law has yet to be fully implemented. That is a huge job, which is taking place outside the media and the front pages of the newspapers, by the way. It's a giant operation the minister is responsible for. I would just like to mention one element in her portfolio. There are issues that raise public awareness and interest in the media, but with that there is no imbalance in the distribution of portfolios. I would like to take a look at part of Mrs Mansveld's portfolio, the resigned Secretary of State: aviation and the environment. Those are of course also very large parts. Of course, there's the trail. The Minister then has the whole question of infrastructure. I'm going on trade missions to Japan and South Africa soon. One of the forces of the Netherlands is our infrastructure, our road system, the fact that we have invested like no other in this part of the world in our roads and waterways. So we have to be careful to find something important because it is a lot in the media. Something's important because it's important. That can also take a lot of time. To return to the previous subject, I say that it is primarily a matter of the Minister and the Secretary of State. Of course they are followed with great interest by the political leaders of the coalition parties. We'll do it carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-8.u28	I am pleased that at least the Prime Minister is coming to an end, but I would like to refer him to the recent rebuke of the work between the Secretary of State and the Minister of V and J. That's a heavy wallet, with a lot of media from the refugees. But what I already hinted about in the first installment was that this was from VVD to VVD. I hope that the political colour will not prevent a shift in these portfolios. However, I can tell that the Prime Minister is going along with that thinking.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-8.u29	I can honestly and knowingly say that this does not really matter in this coalition in portfolio distributions. Of course it did at the start of the cabinet. Of course you look at the accents of the parties and often these accents also coincide with the specific areas of knowledge of the leaders to be attracted. Not every intended PvdA Secretary of State or Minister will know a lot about asphalt. That knowledge is usually a little more present at the VVD. Conversely, the interest in the whole issue of the environment in the VVD is mainly from the point of view of Economic Affairs, while from the more traditional GroenLinks angle you will find it more at the PvdA. That's always the case with these differences. But that has more to do with talents and first preferences than with the party political color. He gets away from it all the time. But I am also glad that Mr Pechtold thinks I am meeting him. Nothing like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-8.u30	It is very funny in itself what the Prime Minister says, but the situation is still more serious. During the last period, the Chamber had to constantly call the Secretary of State to the Chamber, which meant that it was constantly under pressure of time. Given the great importance of all the dossiers, the question is whether this is still sensible. It is not so much about who can handle a portfolio or not, but about the importance of the Netherlands, of Schiphol and KLM, the importance of the railway and ProRail and the importance of safety in the Netherlands. To what extent does the Prime Minister agree with us that this portfolio can be divided in the interests of the Netherlands, so that there is sufficient time and attention to every issue?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-8.u31	Mr Van Helvert is taking up a lot of assumptions, which I shall leave for a moment. I think the main question is how to do that with portfolio distributions. I've outlined that. You look at a good division in terms of time, attention, talent and political color. I have already pointed out to Mr Pechtold that the party political interest is never decisive in a good portfolio distribution. At most it plays as a second-order element in the trade-offs, because people have certain knowledge in an area where their party also has more profile. That makes sense, especially in a coalition like this, which consists of parties that come more from the left and right corners of the political spectrum. In my opinion, Mr Van Helvert makes a mistake by suggesting that because subjects are of social importance, because there are many debates in the Chamber or because there is a lot of media attention, by definition such a portfolio in total takes more time than the other. All parts of the portfolio of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Environment, such as water, the Environment Act and the whole issue of road infrastructure, are of equal importance to rail, the environment and aviation. They're all important themes. I have already mentioned the example of the Environment Act, one of the largest reforms of the cabinet. That is a subject that takes place a little more than the daily headlines.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-8.u32	The Prime Minister says it's also a talent-based thing. That is not the case in this case, I think, because the Minister has already had the portfolios once. Or the Prime Minister should think that things were so bad at the time that we should not repeat them. It's possible. In addition, it is not so much a question of whether it often or less often appears in the newspaper, but if the Secretary of State has to come to the Chamber 90 times and the Minister 40 times, the ratio is somewhat lost. Mr Pechtold just mentioned that. I understand it's okay if it gets a little out of hand, but no department has it so far out of hand. Does the Prime Minister agree with the CDA that it might be useful to look at a redistribution if it is so far out of line?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-8.u33	I shall begin with the first point about the talents and preferences. I am not looking specifically at the Minister, but at the combination of the two directors. You're looking at the most logical division between those regiments. That says nothing about the talent of one or the other for those different portfolios. I don't share that part of the analysis. I do not share the second part of the analysis either, because Mr Van Helvert puts the House of Representatives at the heart of his thinking. He seems to think that as a ruler, he often has to come to the Chamber, and ultimately he doesn't have time for anything at all. If that idea leads the Chamber to be reluctant to bring rulers to the Chamber, I am the last to argue for it. If he himself comes to that conclusion, I can only welcome it, but he does not have it from me. It's only part of the job, of course. Even if you're here 90 times a year, fortunately, that's still just part of the job. There's a lot going on in other places. Mr. Chairman. The second type of question concerned the provision of information to the Chamber. I think it is very important, even crucial, and there is no discussion about it. A number of MPs did draw conclusions from what is specifically written in the Fyra report on the provision of information. I would like to refer to my brief introductory speech in which I stated that the cabinet will give a careful response to the entire Fyra report. Insofar as comments are made in the Fyra report on information provision, the cabinet still responds. That also fits the proportions. To those Members of Parliament who have said something more generally about the provision of information to the Chamber, I can say that I am fully on their side and that I also regard it as a crucial part of our functioning of state law. But again, in the case of this particular case of the Fyra survey, I would like to say that the cabinet can respond with all due care. I still have to study the report carefully, but we will, of course, provide appropriate comments on the various accusations that are now being voiced in the media, accusations that would be made in the report.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-8.u34	I can see why the Prime Minister would like to refer it to another debate. I would have, if it wasn't the first time. It is the umpteenth time that the Chamber has complained about the point and it has been proven that the Chamber has been incomplete and misinformed. Surely the Prime Minister cannot say after example number five, six, seven or eight: I shall pass it on to the debate on the report on the Fyra. This goes much further. It's a trend. It's something that happens all the time. It is common for the Chamber to be informed incompletely or incorrectly from the Cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-8.u35	That makes it complicated, because we should now actually have a parliamentary-historical debate on previous cases, such as surveys, in the recent parliamentary history that led administrators to resign. I refer to the passport issue, the RSV survey and the resignation of Secretary of State Linschoten in response to social security events. There's a lot more to name in the last 30 years. In all these cases, there were to a greater or lesser extent assumptions about insufficient information of the Chamber. I find it difficult to draw this kind of general conclusions in relation to the last three years. I think you have to note that, unfortunately, in parliamentary history, it has occurred with some regularity that there has been an alleged lack of information to justify the resignation of directors. Then back to this particular situation. Was that also the case here? This is really a matter that the cabinet wants to study very carefully, because I believe that this should be part of the comprehensive examination of the report of the Committee of Inquiry. It also deserves that, because it is an extensive piece of work in which many eminent members of the Chamber and the extensive staff have sat down for a lot of time. I think it shows respect to do it like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-8.u36	I understand the Prime Minister. He is either trying to let it be more than three years ago or to bring it back to the example of the Fyra and pass it on to the debate on it. In the first period, I have not for nothing mentioned five or six examples of cases in which the Court has been found to be manifestly incompletely informed. The Prime Minister is responsible for the cabinet. He is responsible for ensuring that the Chamber is properly and fully informed. If the Prime Minister then finds with us that, in the reign of Rutte II, it is certainly the sixth or seventh time that the Chamber has been misinformed or incompletely informed, then surely the Prime Minister cannot sit back? Surely he should at least investigate and at least take a number of measures to prevent that? Surely he doesn't want Rutte II to cling to the fact that it was the cabinet of false information?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-8.u37	No, and I know Mr Roemer doesn't want that either. That's why I appreciate his contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-8.u38	Well, give me a hand with that!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-8.u39	But honestly, I don't share his analysis automatically. He's talking about seven times. On 19 October, I believe, we got out of formation three years ago. I think the coalition today is what it is today, October 28th, three years upside down. Then we should now carry out a whole parliamentary-historical analysis of the past three years, whether or not we have done it. Let us look at the cases where there was a need to resign. Frans Timmermans is out of it, because he got a different position. The first case concerned the Secretary of State for Agriculture. That had to do with issues that played outside the Chamber. In the case of the State Secretary for Finance, it had primarily to do with the operation of the Tax Administration. So I think it is quite a lot to draw this kind of big conclusions over the last three years. I think it is much more relevant to establish that we agree that the rule of trust is a crucial rule between the Chamber and the Cabinet, and thus between the Chamber and the Government. It's up to all of us, especially me, to make sure we honor it to the maximum.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-8.u40	You ask the Prime Minister a question and you get an answer from the historian Ruttem, who takes us to the 1980s and all kinds of parliamentary surveys that have been there before. He's trying to make it as broad as possible, because imagine you have to answer. My fellow Members have pointed out, as I have pointed out, that in the last three years, in particular, it has happened on several occasions that the Chamber has not been fully informed or misinformed and that there have also been government officials tripping over it. The question I asked very specifically was how the Prime Minister assessed this and what steps he was going to take to ensure that the information provided to the Chamber was improved.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-8.u41	I refer to the previous answer. I simply do not share the analysis. However, I believe that we agree that the rule of trust is crucial. However, sweeping statements are made over the past three years. I have mentioned a few examples of cases where in the last three years there has been reason to resign. In the latter case, that of Minister Opstelten, it had to do with the last minute appearance of that transfer. This is now being investigated by the Oosting Committee, and that seems to me to be the place where this should be done. I therefore find it rather far-reaching, which does not mean that I agree with Mr Klaver and others that there are, of course, instances of misinformation in our parliamentary history, and that it is also up to me as Prime Minister to minimize that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-8.u42	The Prime Minister agrees with us that there have been cases of misinformation in the past. I'd like to run into the first person who's dared to claim that that's never happened before. The Prime Minister agrees with all of us that it is important for the Chamber to be well informed and that this is an important task for the Cabinet. It had to be added that he did not; it is simply an important task set out in the Constitution. There are now a number of opposition parties who are concerned about the information position of the Chamber. They say: we note at a number of times during this period of government that this cabinet has not provided the right information. This Prime Minister is waving that away a little bit. Then let me ask him a little more openly: how is this Prime Minister going to respond to our concerns? If he says he can't go into it now, can he say what he's going to do at the exact point of informing the Chamber and improving the information position of the Chamber to meet our concerns and to address those concerns?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-8.u43	I think you can look at that in two ways. Firstly, I think we have a difference of opinion on the exact appreciation of the state-law events over the last three years in relation to the cabinet-kamer relationship. This does not alter the fact that these situations have occurred; I agree with Mr Klaver. You can look at that in two ways. You can look at it very analytically, from the abstraction, and say: I see that this image is there, and what will the Prime Minister do to combat it? But you can also look at the different cases. Let me highlight two. First of all, I would like to mention the issue of the receipt, with Cees H. As a Chamber and a cabinet, we have decided that it is wise to have a committee, the Oosting Committee, look at exactly what has happened. That committee will come forward with its conclusions, and we will discuss them. I think that's wise. Although everyone initially had the impression that the receipt wasn't there, it turned out that the systems turned up on a Sunday night. The second case concerns the Tax Administration and its operation. I believe that we have had a good discussion on this. Eric Wiebes, the current Secretary of State for Finance, is working to simplify and streamline the processes in the Tax Administration, and to prevent too much hobbyism from being added to the Tax Administration, in such a way that the information he relies on in the Tax Administration and the general level of service of the Tax Administration go further. You'll look at the separate files. That's how I work. We can try to set a political trend here and ask what I'm going to do about this. Or we can see together that, if there are examples, I admit immediately that they have been there for the past few years, you have to address them on a case-by-case basis. I think that's what we're doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-8.u44	In our first term, the Prime Minister and I quoted separately the Secretary of State of I and M, who said that you are also responsible for what you find. The Secretary of State has worked for three years. There have been harsh judgments, not only about those three years, but also about the years before. How does the Prime Minister view the role of Minister Schulz? Instead of the three years of Secretary of State Mansveld, she has been responsible for rail for six years, both in the period 2003-2007 and in the period 2010-2012. In doing so, she is the direct predecessor of this Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-8.u45	In my brief introductory statement, I quoted the Secretary of State's statement. I found the Secretary of State's considerations to pave the way for the substantive debate in the Chamber, graceful and stylish. I understand that and I respect that. She said that by clearing the way, the substantive debate could be held. Now Mr Pechtold is trying to draw me into part of the Fyra report. The Fyra report identifies a lot of things. At least I understood that from the media, because I have not yet been able to read a letter of it. I understand from the media that it is about a multitude of rulers and previous political events. The cabinet will look carefully at this and it will come up with a response. However, I am not going to highlight one element right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-8.u46	In doing so, the Prime Minister is right to leave the role of Minister Schultz and the opinion on it open. I do not agree with him that this is only about the content. It also has to do with responsibility. We have just established, both the Prime Minister and I, that not only the final person responsible at the time of resignation, in this case the Secretary of State, can be held responsible. May I give you an example? The Prime Minister himself has just mentioned the passport affair. Secretary of State Van der Linden resigned. Minister Van Eekelen, who was now in Defense, also resigned because he could be held responsible for his period. So it is not just about dealing with the content, but also about the deadlines during which someone is responsible. Minister Schulz has been responsible for the Fyra file twice as long as the Secretary of State. We will deal with this in substance, but I am pleased that the Prime Minister says that the position of the Minister should be properly considered in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-8.u47	Mr Pechtold draws all kinds of conclusions which he cannot draw from my interruption. I'm gonna leave that on his tab.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-8.u48	I'd like to continue with the information to the Chamber. A number of colleagues have rightly asked questions about this. I see the Prime Minister is avoiding the answer to that. My question is simple: does the Prime Minister indicate a trend of poor information on a number of files to the Chamber? And what is, if he signals that trend, which I do not think can be denied, the role he sees for himself? Well, that's the part he's in charge of.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-8.u49	I thought I correctly stated in the previous answer that I do not agree with the image that is being evoked as if it had suddenly taken off over the past few years. In recent years, it has also occurred that in an supposedly inadequate, late or incorrect information of the Chamber, directors were forced to announce their resignation. I also outlined that I think it would be much more useful to look at individual cases and see what needs to be done to prevent them next time than to try to create the picture here that it is so much more than in the past. I'm fighting that image. So it makes little sense to ask what I'm going to do about that image and try to reverse that supposed trend at some kind of meta-level.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-8.u50	If something happens once, we're talking about an incident. If it happens twice, you can say that can happen. But if it happens three times, there's a pattern and there's a trend. We can deal with all the individual cases of the past cabinet period. With the exception of the first case, that of Mr Verdaas, it has all been in line with the lack of information to the Chamber. If the Prime Minister does not want to see that trend of missing information, I wonder how he sees his own role as a whole. He is the primus inter pares of this cabinet, in which he also has a directing role. However, he does not want to take that direction. That is regrettable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-8.u51	This is a bit of finding the self-hidden Easter egg. A first observation is made and a trend is noted, which is then dug up again: "Hey, I noticed a trend and found the Easter egg! What do you think of that Easter egg?" I can't do that much. I find it much more useful to consider on a case-by-case basis how it could have happened and, on a case-by-case basis, to ensure that you prevent it. Surely there is no secret concordat within the coalition of Party of Labour and VVD to misinform the Chamber often? That's not the case, is it? Why would we want to do that? Who's gonna benefit from that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-8.u52	The Prime Minister is now waving away the image that has arisen in the Chamber, namely that it is often misinformed, with a joke. He says he doesn't share that opinion and hop, it's gone! However, I would like to say that this is a recommendation from the Committee of Inquiry. The Committee of Inquiry says: if you compare the surveys of recent times, you will see the common thread that there are a number of times not well informed. It is not just a number of Members of Parliament who say this; the Committee of Inquiry says it! Do I actually hear the Prime Minister say that this recommendation of the Committee of Inquiry is not taken over by the Cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-8.u53	For two reasons, Mr Van Helvert draws an incorrect conclusion. Firstly, because the cabinet will carefully examine the conclusions of the Committee of Inquiry and will provide a comprehensive response, as I said. Secondly, because the discussion was about something else. The debate, sparked by Mr Pechtold and a number of others, focused very much on the past three years, but I understand from the media that the Committee of Inquiry calls attention to the fact that this would be visible in a number of subsequent surveys. That is, by definition, about a longer period of time. I, too, have already made that observation. I mentioned the RSV survey and the passport survey, but so there are more cases. Mr Van Helvert and I are therefore in agreement on this. Once again, I have to study the conclusions carefully, but if the committee concludes this to that extent, it is at least an element on which we agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-8.u54	Well, that's very good to hear. I understand that it would be possible for the Prime Minister, if the cabinet had gone through the conclusions and recommendations of the committee, to come back to the Chamber and say that he is going to work for improved information, which is not currently the case. So it could still be happening?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-8.u55	Anything can still happen, because we're going to study the report. I responded much more to the accusation that a number of political groups have thrown at me, namely that in recent years there would suddenly be an enormous increase in an almost conscious need not to inform the Chamber properly; at least that was what it sounded like. I don't see that trend. I have noted, however, that in the last few years it has occurred a few times that rulers in the supposedly misinformation of the Chamber saw reason to leave. It has always been considered on a case-by-case basis how to prevent this in the future. I think that is the right and most meaningful way. I come to the third and last type of question that has been asked: where do you descend, in the Chamber or somewhere else? I think we must first establish that there is no rule or use where that happens. Look at the past period. During or immediately after the parliamentary debate in which a motion of censure had been tabled which did not receive the support of the majority of the Chamber, Secretary of State Weekers nevertheless saw reason to resign throughout that debate. That was in February 2014. Whether it happened in the Chamber or not, I find it complicated to judge. Anyway, it happened in this building, it's my opinion. At the same time, I think there is something else going on here. The paradox is that Mrs Mansveld was very sincere in saying that I support her in this and I think that it is only to be appreciated that she would make it possible, by leaving now, to conduct the debate on the substance. As Mr Samsom of the Labour Party put it, this point would otherwise stand in the way of content. Then the question would always have arisen as to whether a Secretary of State should not also be killed. That would then remain above the discussion. Mrs Mansveld stated in her statement that by stepping down now she wanted to make room for the debate in the Chamber on the content. Secretary of State Linschoten then stepped up during the debate or at the end of the debate, pending a motion of censure. I think I remember that it had not been adopted at that time. I remember the television footage that Minister Van Eekelen also left the Chamber at the time. That was also in the course of a debate that was going on at the time. These are situations other than those in which someone says that he does not want to stand in the way of the debate. I think the first observation is that there is no rule. If the debate takes place here and ends in insufficient confidence, then it happens here by definition. If the outcome of the debate is ambiguous and someone in that ambiguity sees reason to quit, then at least it happens in this building. I think that's how you should look at it. I find it difficult to agree on a kind of general rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-8.u56	We're not asking for that either. Above all, we ask for courtesy towards the Chamber. I'm sorry to have to turn on the TV as an MP to see what's going on in politics. There was every reason today for the Secretary of State to make the same statement and possibly be available for a number of questions just like today, at the start of the budget debate, together with the Prime Minister. I don't even want to write down that tradition. However, I would argue that we should do it that way when possible. That also has to do with the way you deal with the Chamber. Do not give a press conference in which questions cannot even be asked to leave, but make a statement here one and a half hours later in a debate that was already planned. That would have been possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-8.u57	Mr Pechtold and I are both parliamentary politicians. We love the House of Representatives. I know that from us; that goes for me and also for Mr Pechtold. I get his point of view, too. At the same time, I believe that there are also circumstances, especially today, where that does not apply. The Secretary of State has not yet said that she makes all the conclusions of the Fyra survey her own. What I heard her say in that press statement is as follows: by staying on, the political perpetuation of my Secretary of State is too long over the market, so that the substantive discussion cannot really be conducted. Does that necessarily have to be followed by questions from the Lower House, if someone has already decided to quit? I think that's a matter of taste. We should look at that on a case-by-case basis. In this case, I understand and respect the consideration of the Secretary of State. In other cases, it happens here, especially after a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-8.u58	The Chamber organises a survey, which takes a lot of time and a lot of tax money, and then comes the results and conclusions of such a survey. My only point is that after the entire parliamentary process with all those involved, including from outside Parliament, it may be courteous to appear here with the Prime Minister on the same day in a debate that was already planned. As far as I am concerned, it does not have to be an entire debate on the report, but we are doing it in the same way as we are doing now. The Prime Minister has come now. As far as I am concerned, this is a valuable tradition: accountability. As far as my group is concerned, the Secretary of State should have made that choice. Now I'm done.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-8.u59	This can be seen on a case-by-case basis. I understand what Mr Pechtold is saying, but I fully understand what consideration the Secretary of State has made today in this particular case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-8.u60	I too am pleased to mention the point here, not to make it a very big one, but because we now have a debate in which it is logically discussed. Just considering the somewhat messy picture of the years behind how to deal with it, I'm looking at some sort of intermediate figure. I recall that Minister Donner and Minister Dekker announced their resignation here and made a further statement in the Chamber. There are very different practices that do not make sense in the different circumstances. Would it not be a point of consideration for the Cabinet and the Prime Minister that it is elegant towards parliament to announce the resignation preferably in parliament by means of a statement?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-8.u61	I understand what Mr Van der Staaij is saying, but I am looking at the circumstances of today. The survey report is coming out. Mansveld didn't say she'd make all those conclusions her own. She can't even do that, because she hasn't had the chance to read it all. She actually says: I have made the assessment that by staying on I stand in the way of the substantive debate. The paradox is, in fact, that it frees up the room, including for the Chamber, to have that debate. I think it would go a long way if you had to explain that in the Chamber and answer questions about it. You have to look at that on a case-by-case basis. I understand the consideration she has made, and I support it. I also understand what Mr Van der Staaij is saying, but I do not think you can make any rules for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-8.u62	One rule is another. By the way, I now notice that the Prime Minister calls in one breath the making of a statement and having a debate on it. I can also imagine that it is limited to making a statement in the Chamber, in which...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-8.u63	No, I get that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-8.u64	... not necessarily a debate should also be held with the resignation of the government. My only question or suggestion would be to reconsider this point for the future, apart from this situation, which has just happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-8.u65	I would like to join in that. The Prime Minister says it is a matter of'seeing things on a case-by-case basis', but if we just take this period of government, then we see that this is the fifth member of the cabinet who leaves early. Of those five, four have announced it outside the Chamber and disappeared. There is only one person who has made a statement in the Chamber in the end. That was in the debate, because the debate was not over yet. That was Secretary of State Weekers. I myself think it is the royal path when it happens in the Chamber that is separate from the question of whether questions will then have to be answered when it is announced in the Chamber that a ruler has drawn conclusions from a report or from a situation and says: I cannot continue to function in this way and for that reason I am leaving. I know that as a Chamber, we cannot impose that on a cabinet. I do not know what is going to happen to this cabinet in the coming period and how many administrators might leave early, but think about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-8.u66	It's always a good idea to think about something, but I also keep saying that because I really do think that I understand and support Wilma Mansveld's consideration today. And I'm also gonna think about what's being said here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-8.u67	I understand the Prime Minister's understanding. That makes sense. Support is another question. That is a very different point, because that means in fact that he says: we should not have such a debate in the Chamber, because then the debate is only about 'barbertje must hang'.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... While my point is that you have to be politically accountable from an open perspective, in the sense of: where are the two parties opposite each other, the cabinet versus the Chamber? Then we may or may not draw a conclusion. Indeed, as Mr Slob said, the debate with Secretary of State Mr Weekers was not concluded with a motion of censure which I have not yet tabled at that time, but that means that we are holding the debate together. That is, of course, a strange observation, because that means that the cabinet is actually saying: we are not going to have debates with the Chamber, because we are afraid that the debate is just about the person and not about the matter anymore. Does the Prime Minister share that conclusion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-8.u68	It is complicated to draw one conclusion from this argument, but let me try. I believe that Mr Slob and Mr Van der Staaij have tabled an amendment to Mr Pechtold's idea. Mr Pechtold said: you make a statement and then you can ask questions. Mr Slob and Mr Van der Staaij actually say: you could also limit it to an explanation. I say once again: given the situation as it was today and all the considerations in this regard, I support the consideration of Secretary of State Mansveld to do it as she did. That's what I'm saying about today. I also said: of course I am thinking about suggestions coming from the Chamber, especially from eminent group chairmen, as I have just said. Next, Mr Klein's question is: should we not, by definition, conduct the debate on the substance? You can't make a general rule about that. What Wilma Mansveld wanted to do today with the consideration she made when she came to the conclusion "I'm stepping on" is to pave the way for that substantive discussion. This does not allow us to make a new general rule for all cases where a ruler thinks: it becomes complicated to talk about the content, because it is about my person; so I resign. Today, however, in this particular situation, this balance has been made, but every situation will always have its unique features. There is, of course, no general rule for all cases, which Mr Klein may be afraid of, in which directors think: this can end in a complicated situation of trust between me and the Chamber, so I will leave. In this particular dossier, Wilma Mansveld himself made that assessment in the interest of the substantive debate that needs to be conducted, and I respect that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-8.u69	I do not think this reasoning is entirely correct, because that means that the Prime Minister is actually saying: I am still looking at the substantive debate, but the conclusions on the substantive debate should be drawn here in the Chamber. They have not been drawn because we still have to discuss the survey report. This means that we are going to look not only at the survey report in all its parts, but also at the question of confidence, of course also in the direction of Minister Schultz of I and M. That's obviously the moment when you can make that assessment, not now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-8.u70	That is why my previous answer is that you cannot set a general rule for dealing with these issues. A board member always makes that assessment on the basis of the substance of the case and the first weighing of conclusions. In this case, I respect them, too. So the discussion is where you do that and what consideration you make. If Mr Klein is afraid that this will create some sort of general rule of law, I can reassure him. Because I don't believe that. It can't be, because it'll be different on a case-by-case basis. I believe I have accepted the contribution of the Chamber with, I hope, sensible answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-8.u71	This brought an end to the government's first term of office. I note that there is a need for a second deadline.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-8.u72	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Prime Minister for his first-term answers. We talked about the heaviness of the wallets at I and M. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the State Secretary for Infrastructure and the Environment has today offered her resignation;]] [[Whereas the current portfolio of the State Secretary for Infrastructure and the Environment has proved to be unbalanced;]] [[calls on the Government to seize this opportunity to ensure a more balanced distribution of directors' portfolios,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Pechtold and Mr Van Helvert. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34328-1]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-8.u73	We will discuss the content of the report, but as far as I am concerned we will also discuss the provision of information to the Chamber. During the discussion of the General Affairs budget, I have already said that not only withholding information from the Chamber is a problem, but also the untimely information of the Chamber. On a day like today, during this debate, it is announced that bed-bath bread will be postponed for a month and a half. Only in the middle of winter do asylum seekers and those responsible in the municipalities know what is going on. During this debate, on a day like today, the progress letters on the pgb go to the Chamber. It says that 10,500 pgb holders were still promised October 1st, 1st November was promised to have no clarity about their payments. These are the examples we discussed during the general affairs budget. I added two more today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-8.u74	Mr Slob, Mr Van Helvert and Mr Klaver waived their second term. I call Mr Roemer of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-8.u75	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Prime Minister for his reply. However, I went to the chair, because I am dissatisfied with the answer to the questions relating to information. The Prime Minister is clearly in denial. He doesn't see a problem, he doesn't want to see it or he's laughing it off. It has been a number of times here about the provision of information to the Chamber on the pgbs. It's about demonstrably toxic substances at the Department of Defense. Several times it has also been admitted and shown that the Chamber has been misinformed and misinformed about ProRail. The debate on this subject will be concluded. It was the drama in Question Time surrounding the photographs of Volkert van der G., in which evidence of incorrect information was provided to the Chamber. It was about the conclusions of the survey on housing corporations. I'm just shaking a few examples out of my sleeve, and I'm sure I'm not even complete yet. A Prime Minister waving this away and laughing away sends the wrong signal to the Chamber and the people at home. The Prime Minister is not supposed to be deaf and blind on this. It is significant that the Prime Minister has not responded to the observation in the report that this once again shows that the marketing of the public sector has caused major problems. The survey in the First Chamber has shown it, the housing survey has shown it, the report on the Fyra published today has shown it, the discussion about ProRail has shown it, and in the care we do no different.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-8.u76	Mr. Chairman. In the context of speaking time, I am not going to repeat Mr Roemer's list. I'm filing a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that during this period of office the Chamber has too often been informed prematurely, incompletely or incorrectly;]] [[regrets that the Chamber is too often frustrated in its controlling role;]] [[calls on the Prime Minister to take targeted measures to break the culture of deception of the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34328-2]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-8.u77	Mr. Chairman. Apart from the motions, there was one question. This was about, if I quote Mr Roemer's SP jargon correctly, 'the marketing of the public sector'. He was a little disgusted that I hadn't responded to that. I did not do that because I would like to avoid that debate. This is one of the most beautiful debates I have with the Socialist Party. I'm not responding because it's about the Fyra report now. I think it is correct not to respond to parts of that report now. Moreover, there is also a certain colouring by Mr Roemer with regard to parts of the report, which I cannot yet judge because I have not even been able to read the report. That's why. So we are going to have that debate. There's no doubt about that. No doubt this point will return from the angle of the SP. Two motions have been tabled. The first one is about the portfolio distribution. It says that...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-8.u78	I like to engage in this debate on every occasion. Apparently, the prime minister has to hit his head more often. Anyway, we're gonna keep showing it to you every time. However, I had asked a second question. I have listed cases of incorrect information to the Chamber, for example incomplete information. Doesn't the Prime Minister say: 'Oh, that's perhaps a little too much of the good'? Does he not intend to discuss this within the cabinet and to put more emphasis on it, so as to prevent such a thing from happening? Or does he still keep waving it away nonchalantly?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-8.u79	I didn't do that in the first term. Forgive me if I try once or twice not to make the debate too difficult with a little witz. Apparently, that's my style of debate. However, it does not mean that I would not consider this an important subject. At the start of my reply, I even said that informing the Chamber was one of the central issues between the government and the Chamber and that this affected the rule of confidence or, more importantly, that it constituted the heart of it. However, I have also argued that it makes much more sense to discuss cases where the Court considers that there is insufficient information, on a case-by-case basis. This also applies to the cases listed by Mr Roemer, for example the personal budget dossier. This has to do with the way in which we ensure that the implementation organisations can also do their work in the right way and with any adjustments in implementation. Then you establish something and you note that it is important to improve implementation on that point, which then leads to joint conclusions. I think that is much more useful than, as Mr Kuzu did in the superb stage, talking about a 'culture of deception', and I note that Mr Roemer did not say that. Then you find yourself in some sort of abstract discussion about how to prevent the Chamber from being insufficiently informed in all sorts of totally incomparable cases. What's the point? Isn't it much more relevant to come to a solution on a case-by-case basis?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-8.u80	I share with the Prime Minister that it should be discussed on a case-by-case basis. Of course, that's what's happening. All colleagues in the Chamber will, if they do, indeed call the relevant directors to the Chamber and call him or her to account. That is not the point of discussion, because that is already happening. This is what I'm talking about. In the first term, the Prime Minister did wave it a bit away: "it's not that many examples" or "it's been almost 30 years." In the second term, I have listed a list of examples of the past short time, on the basis of which it seems as if it is above average. I can't imagine the Prime Minister as captain of the cabinet not worrying about that. If he is open to that and says, "This must indeed be discussed. We take this seriously and I recognize that it has gone wrong too often," that is very different from what he says in the Chamber: find out for yourself with a ruler who has done something wrong once.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-8.u81	Again, that last...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-8.u82	It's your directing role. You're...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-8.u83	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-8.u84	You're responsible for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-8.u85	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-8.u86	The directional role is always in good hands. The question of my answer does not touch on the fact that I would not consider it relevant or try to put it away as unimportant. I understand Mr Roemer is experiencing it this way. I can't take that feeling away from him, I can tell from his face. At least it's not my plan. I think it is much more relevant to make it clear whether or not there is insufficient information to ensure that we solve these problems. It is necessary for you to do that on a case-by-case basis, whether it's the IRS or the receipt that showed up on that Sunday night. Then we wanted to know exactly what was going on and we set up the Oosting Committee. You have to look at it carefully on a case-by-case basis. If it does not lead to debates of confidence, it will also be done in the normal work between the Chamber and the Government. Look at the other files, some of which Mr Roemer mentioned. I think that's relevant. Then you solve the problems. However, Mr Roemer also makes a kind of political conclusion. It would be a kind of trend and it would be in this coalition usance and almost policy. I'll fight that. I'll fight that with all my heart. I find it much more relevant to solve those cases individually.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-8.u87	Thank you. Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-8.u88	I'm getting to the two motions. The Pechtold/Van Helvert motion in part No. 1 is about the portfolio distribution. The recital states that the current portfolio has proved to be unbalanced. That consideration leads to the operative part of the need to achieve a more balanced distribution. I really cannot support that recital. I do not agree with that, but I do refer to what I said about it in the first term. We always look to the Minister and the Secretary of State, first of all, to consider a number of relevant factors in the distribution when another team of directors is formed in the department. Also look at Dijkhoff and Van der Steur. For example, when they joined forces, the Minister's subject of cybersecurity went to the Secretary of State. Why? Because Dijkhoff has specific knowledge on that subject. So that can always lead to adjustments. Then, of course, we always look at the relative heaviness. All these aspects are taken into account, but this motion contains a statement that I cannot support.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-8.u89	I am going to get the Prime Minister's throat out of it: we are going to get the recital out of it, or the recital out of it. Then I assume we have the Prime Minister's support.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-8.u90	No, because then the word "balanced" remains in the operative part. So I'm gonna stay off the hook. I come to the member's motion...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-8.u91	We make it 'balanced'.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-8.u92	The r goes out, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-8.u93	Yes, but then it will be policy support and therefore unnecessary, and it will be dissuaded!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-8.u94	Pechtold/Van Helvert motion (No ) has been amended to read as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the State Secretary for Infrastructure and the Environment has today offered her resignation;]] [[calls on the Government to seize this opportunity to ensure a balanced distribution of directors' portfolios,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She gets no, was no. 1 ().
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-8.u95	Then I come to Mr Kuzu's motion on item No. 2. I shall keep it brief, at least the treatment of it. The motion is about a... Where did it say? Well, there was something terrible in it. A "culture of deception," yes! That is such a heavy accusation that I would like to advise against the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-28-tweedekamer-8.u96	Voting on the motions tabled will take place next Tuesday. At the request of the spokesmen, I shall suspend the sitting for half an hour, so that the spokesmen of the budget debate can also dine for a while.
