ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Security and Justice and, as the first speaker, give the floor to Mr Van Nispen of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. I'll file three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there are concerns about the scale and content of the cuts at the Dutch Forensic Institute;]] [[Whereas forensic research is becoming increasingly important in truth finding and research opportunities continue to increase;]] [[calls on the government to reconsider the scale and implementation of the cuts at the Dutch Forensic Institute and at the same time to present a vision of forensic research,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that research in the fields of handwriting analysis, paint research and hair research will soon be outsourced and thus no longer offered by the Netherlands Forensic Institute itself;]] [[noting that demand for these areas of expertise is declining less rapidly than previously estimated;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that relevant expertise remains present at the Dutch Forensic Institute until there is no need for it from the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that agreements have been made between the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Netherlands Forensic Institute regarding the influx, production and delivery time of products and services of the Netherlands Forensic Institute;]] [[considers that the prioritisation set out in this service level agreement may have a negative impact on the lead time of investigations;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate the impact of agreements reached on sending traces to the Netherlands Forensic Institute for investigation by both the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office and to inform the Chamber of the results thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van Nispen, Berndsen-Jansen, Van Toorenburg and Helder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29628-555]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Nispen, Mr Berndsen-Jansen and Mr Van Toorenburg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29628-556]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Nispen, Mr Berndsen-Jansen and Mr Van Toorenburg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29628-557]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u3	Mr. Chairman. I asked for a letter yesterday about the coverage in De Telegraaf. Mr Helder has put questions to the House. We received answers to the questions shortly before the debate. I felt that those answers came in too short before the debate so that they could be fully involved in this debate. I can already tell you that there is no information in that letter which would mean that one of these motions would no longer be necessary. I'd like to leave it at that. We will certainly come to the content of that letter at another time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u4	This can, of course, be done through the procedural meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u5	Mr. Chairman. In general consultation, we have spoken quite intimately about the concerns that the NFI can no longer do its job as it does now. We note this while, unfortunately, in the Netherlands, we have the lowest rate of crime in the whole of Western Europe! So you should optimize that rather than marginalize it further. That is why we supported Mr Van Nispen's motions. My motion may go a step further. I am happy to present her, because we are very concerned about the possibility of sending in traces. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the National Police National Forensic Investigation Team (LFO) sent out the signal that only once a month traces could be sent to the NFI;]] [[Whereas these and/or other quantitative restrictions are unheard of in view of the need for investigation into the detection and prosecution of serious criminal offences in which these traces have been collected;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the LFO team is not subject to quantitative restrictions on the sending in of tracks in order to carry out its work properly,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Toorenburg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29628-558]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u6	Mr. Chairman. In addition, we have a very different great concern and that concerns the Forensic Policliniek Children's Abuse in Utrecht. We have talked about this clinic more often, because there is the expertise in the Netherlands about child abuse. It seems now that the police can only turn to the NFI. It can't be. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the police and the justice system now want to invest investigation into sexual offences and child abuse in the NFI and no longer at the Forensic Policliniek Children's Abuse (FPKM) in Utrecht;]] [[Whereas this could have a major impact on the clinic;]] [[Whereas the FPKM has so far been discussed with great satisfaction in all consultations with the Chamber;]] [[calls on the Government to conduct independent investigations into the grounds of police and justice that this investigation can be better invested in the NFI than in the FPKM;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Toorenburg and Mr Keijzer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29628-559]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u7	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for the commitment he made during the general consultation on 1 April. It wasn't a joke. It was a commitment on the DNA elimination database. My group would have liked police officers to be obliged to donate DNA to detect contamination at a crime scene earlier. The Minister has explained what the restriction is. My group understands that too, so I am not going to table a motion on this. I would like to hear from the Minister that he will continue to inform the Chamber of how the database will be filled. Then, indeed, Mr Van Nispen said it, even though he has just received the answer to the written questions that my group has asked about the Public Prosecutor's Office, which is calling for cuts in the NFI. We are certainly going to talk about this, but I would like to highlight one point. During the general consultation on 1 April, I said that the Minister's PVV would like to hear concrete examples of what the NFI will have to leave behind. My group does not want the policy terms in this letter that no one understands. For example, I quoted a quote from the letter. "Sustainability of the robustness of production." Well, nobody understands anything about that. I got answers to my written questions now, but what does it say? "Sustainability of the robustness of production." Of course, that is not a good thing, so we are going to talk about this, with the commitment that my group wants to reverse these cuts, as several parties want it to. I come to my final point. I have also asked in general consultation that "suicide" should always be investigated further in a preliminary judgment. There are now two cases in which the victim's parents have had to ask through an Article 12 procedure. That is, of course, extremely painful. That is why I asked whether that preliminary judgment could not always be examined as to the cause of death. The question is how are we going to make sure that detection indications are discovered? I find the Minister's answer to this unsatisfactory. He says: it is not for me to take a position on the need for sections in cases without criminal interest. That was not my question, so perhaps the Minister can answer my question here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u8	Thank you. I'll see if the minister is able to answer directly. That's the case. I shall now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u9	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank Members, not only for the comments that have been made, the many questions that have been asked and the views that have been expressed during the general discussion, but also for the recognition of the importance of the work of the Netherlands Forensic Institute and the other institutes, and I would like to say that some of them will know why I have said this, having heard what I said in my previous capacity about market forces and more institutes available for conducting forensic research in the Netherlands, especially for counter-expertises. Forensic research in the broader sense, not only by the NFI, but also by the other institutes, is without doubt an incredibly important part of the criminal justice chain and can be essential for the investigation. I therefore appreciate that the Chamber is critical of the planned cuts, but also of the work that the NFI is delivering. In general consultation, your members have repeatedly called for attention to be paid to the three activities which the NFI intends to divest. This has now been included in a motion by Mr Van Nispen. I'll just mention them: paint research, handwriting and hair research. The NFI sees that there are decreasing levels of expertise and thought that it could lead to a reduction in the level of expertise. As a result of the general consultation, I had further discussions with the Dutch Forensic Institute and found that it is falling dramatically but not to the extent that I thought it was justified to achieve a complete rejection of those activities. I asked the NFI to find other solutions. They were found either by outsourcing the work to the person who did it within the NFI, but in a different way, or by ensuring that there are proper agreements with subcontractors to continue to do the work. The work in these three areas continues to be done as long as it is needed. This need is decreasing because there is a relocation to other areas. In many cases, for example, hair research is replaced by DNA research on other parts of the human body. In any case, this means that the concern that the Chamber had in this regard has been removed in this way. I'm gonna head over to the Van Nispen c.s motion. in piece No. 556, inviting the government to keep those expertise with the NFI itself. I must advise against that motion, because there is no need for those expertises to remain with the NFI itself. However, the work must continue to be done and I can give that guarantee to Mr Van Nispen. That's why the motion isn't necessary. So I'm gonna dissuade her. The areas of expertise remain available through the NFI.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u10	There is a problem here, and that is precisely why I asked for a letter in response to the internal documents made public through De Telegraaf. What does it turn out to be? There are indeed problems with outsourcing the expertises handwriting, hair and paint research. The subcontractors used do not meet the condition to be accredited as well as to be able to report in Dutch. The D.A. is very concerned about this. I am therefore not at all reassured by the Minister's statement that it is possible to get away from the NFI. Can the Minister respond to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u11	Please note that this is a matter of care. It's not going away from the NFI. The NFI is responsible for the quality of the research outsourced by the Office to the NFI. The NFI is itself accredited and will report in Dutch. The NFI may hire a subcontractor, in any language that engages in any activity, even if it is not accredited. By the way, The Maastricht Forensic Institute (TMFI) and Verilabs, two agencies with a lot of collaboration, are both simply accredited and report in Dutch. If English or German institutions are used, they are basically accredited. If they are not accredited for some expertises, there is no accreditation.I have been explained.It doesn't matter because the assignment takes place under the responsibility of the NFI. That is accredited and will also report in Dutch to the Public Prosecutor. In this respect, I can take away Mr Van Nispen's concern.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u12	On the contrary. It's about a lot of disks now. I also understand that TMFI and Verilabs are accredited, but they use subcontractors that do not meet the conditions laid down by the D.A. in advance. Not only the SP is concerned, but the DA is also concerned. I think we should really take that very seriously. I therefore regret that the Minister says that it remains with the NFI. Actually, it's not staying with the NFI either, because it's being outsourced. It goes a few more drives. I find that very unwise. We were told at the hearing that there is a need for these expertises in the Netherlands. Maybe it's different in the future, but we'll see about that. I find it very unwise to say already that these expertises can get away from the NFI. There's nothing else I can do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u13	I am afraid that Mr Van Nispen really must make something else out of it. The NFI ensures that properly accredited hair, paint and handwriting research is provided to the D.A., because that research is carried out under the responsibility of the NFI. Just like all over the world, everywhere and nowhere, outsourcing activities take place, so they will take place here too. No "no" is sold on any of these three grounds. The quality is guaranteed by the NFI. It was, it is, and it stays.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u14	This is without prejudice to the fact that this is an NFI austerity measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u15	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u16	Yeah, that's what the director of the NFI himself said at the hearing. So I'm just gonna assume that for the time being. Then how can the Minister say that it can be cheaper if the NFI is going to outsource it? It has been said that it is such a small specialty that it will be many times more expensive for outsourcing than if the NFI continues to do so on its own. There are two issues on the agenda: firstly, what Mr Van Nispen says and secondly, that it cannot be a austerity measure because it costs a lot more. Why doesn't the Minister say that expertise can stay with the NFI for the time being? This will probably not be necessary in a few years' time, because it can be replaced by other new technologies. But if you cut it off at the NFI now, you'll just lose it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u17	We need to be clear about what the target is. The concern of the Chamber, in which I took part in the general discussion, was: is there a need for these three expertises or not? The answer to that is: yes, that need is decreasing, but is still there. In my view, the extent of this need, including the remarks of the Chamber, did not justify ending those three expertises. That was the original thought. Then I asked the NFI to reconsider that. The NFI did. Then it said: we fill it in in such a way that we can always carry on doing that research under our responsibility and according to our quality standards; we do that by, among other things, outsourcing it to other agencies, where it is cheaper. I am not going to conduct price negotiations on expertise with the Chamber and discuss how agencies like TMFI and Verilabs work. I happen to know how TMFI works. TMFI does not employ permanent staff, but hires staff on a project basis. That's different from what happened at the NFI. So it's a choice how to do that. For me, the starting point is the concern of the Chamber that these skills should and should remain there. They're gonna be there, and they're gonna be there. It is then up to the NFI how and at what cost it does so. I do not think that the Chamber should look at every item in the budget of 65 million of the NFI. This is one of the smallest items in that budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u18	It's very essential in investigation. I'm very sorry. It was announced as a austerity measure and it has been said that outsourcing is more expensive. Now all of this seems to be out of the question. In any case, we will continue to monitor whether this can be implemented in this way, but I believe that the Court should give a ruling on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u19	It is up to the Court to rule on this. On the premise that these three areas of expertise could not be ended, I agreed with the Chamber, and that on the tenth day of my ministry. Then I made sure that those expertises remain available. That austerity will not be achieved. Cost savings will be made, but within the framework of the quality of the NFI. That is why I advise against the motion, but it is up to the Chamber to draw conclusions from it. In his motion in part No. 555 calls on Mr Van Nispen to reconsider the government, the size and implementation of the austerity measures, and at the same time to come up with a vision of forensic research. I see that several members of the Chamber have signed the motion. I have no room to reconsider the cuts, because that is not what the budget allows. I would remind Mr Van Nispen that his colleague Mrs Kooiman, in the short time I have been active, has already asked me to spend more money on the National Police; money that I do not have on my budget. It will then become complicated if, at the same time, targets in other areas are not allowed to continue by the SP Group either. Suppose I have to make a choice between achieving a fair collective agreement and carrying out the same tasks for the NFI as for all other institutions under my responsibility because efficiency is possible. Mr Van Nispen will not deny that. I agree with him that it is not easy, but efficiency targets can be achieved. That also proves other execution services. That is why I do not think I have any room to reach a different conclusion on the operative part of this motion than to advise it. In due course, following the motion in part No. 557, let me say something about vision of forensic research.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u20	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u21	I will give you the floor in a moment, Mr Van Nispen, but I would like to point out that this is a VAO. I will only allow any interruptions relating to the motions. We are not going to have the debate again, because that has already been done.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u22	I won't, Mr. Chairman. I don't have a question. I have a comment. I am sorry that the Minister is trying to play me against colleagues, in the sense that the money for the collective agreement would be more important for the police than this. It's not about that at all. It is this cabinet that chooses to cut so much, the Minister cannot make me responsible for that or my colleague, who has certain wishes that are indeed aimed at improving the detection in the Netherlands or at achieving a fairer collective agreement for the agents. So I don't want the Minister to do this anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u23	I certainly understand Mr Van Nispen's remark. I understand very well that as an opposition party you always make demands about funding for all kinds of things that you all think are important, but from my reality I indicate that I have a budget. As much as I would like to spend extra money on this budget everywhere and nowhere, my budget does not allow me to do so. As a minister, I must point out my reality. I do not think it is right for Mr Van Nispen to ask me not to do that anymore. I do that because I simply have to deal with a budget. If I meet the SP Group, I may have to make more cuts on other sides, other institutions, institutions or matters which the SP Group does not think is a good idea. That is the reality. I think I should point this out to Mr Van Nispen, but I would add that I did not intend to play him out to his colleague. I just wanted to point out that quite a few demands from the SP Group are being thrown on my table without being financially available.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u24	This minister can speak so well, but I would ask him to read again. After all, it does not say, as the SP often does, "delete the austerity." It says: 'In view of everything that is happening, take a good look at the mission; 'to rethink the scope and implementation of the austerity (...)'. Actually, that's what's being asked. Perhaps the Minister could take a more sympathetic look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u25	I very much appreciate Mrs Van Toorenburg's comment, but I fear that a review can only be carried out if there is a willingness to say: I am going to reconsider it and possibly come to a different conclusion. That is not the case. I believe that the NFI's mission is justified in itself and I do not have any room to reconsider it either, because I would have to reconsider other elements and my priorities would not allow it. I understand Mrs Van Toorenburg's suggestion very well, but I am very sorry that I cannot come to a conclusion other than that I must nevertheless discourage this motion. I'll come to the motion in part No. 557 in which Mr Van Nispen asks to investigate the impact of agreements made on sending in traces and to inform the Chamber of their results. I can inform Mr Van Nispen that there is an investigation under the direction of Mr Zouridis of the University of Tilburg. With a complicated term, this is called "signatory examination." I've got a paper somewhere that says exactly what they're gonna do, but I can't find it right now. This research means that the question of how the service level agreement works is looked at. Today there has been discussions with the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the NFI about the way in which they work together. At the beginning of next year, this research will lead to a result. That is why I referred to the motion in part No. 555 to include the question of what my personal thoughts as ministers are in the way we deal with the financing of the NFI. Let me outline two things. In the ideal world, you say, "I think Mrs Van Toorenburg has said that in a motion, "the NFI is an open-ended organisation: everything we want researched is being investigated by the NFI, no matter what it costs; we're printing money until we've solved it. You can't. We all get that. We're gonna have to prioritize somehow. There are, of course, modalities to say: it can go one way or the other. I don't have any ideas about that yet. That is why I sound a little vague, as I say to Mr Van Nispen. However, as a result of the results of the three-yearly alert by Professor Zouridis of Tilburg University, following his research on the SLA, I undertake to consider how we can organise the funding of the NFI in the future in such a way that we experience fewer problems than we do now. I'm willing to look into that. Of course, there will always be financial constraints, but in there you can always see how you deal with prioritisation, what work you do where and where you put the funding. I'll be on the motion myself. I need to be very careful. I would ask Mr Van Nispen to hold the motion until January next year, when I publish that report. If he does not agree, he can put the motion to the vote and say: Minister, do your job better and do it again. That is my suggestion to Mr Van Nispen. I am very curious whether Mr Van Nispen can give me any further information on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u26	Then we'll get to the next motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u27	That's the motion in part No. 558 by Mrs Van Toorenburg. That motion states that there should be no quantitative restrictions on the sending in of traces. I understand that motion very well, but I cannot comply with it for the simple reason that this would mean that the NFI would receive open-ended funding. All tracks can then be sent in without any prioritisation by the police and the Public Prosecutor. This would mean open-ended financing. That's why I'm dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u28	It cannot be the case that an important criminal investigation must be solved and that traces cannot be sent in purely and simply because the number has been reached. It cannot be merely a quantitative restriction.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u29	That's exactly right. I have recently asked about this with the national team forensic dismantling. These are the men and women of the National Police who, in cooperation with the fire department, are dismantling the drug laboratories. They send in tracks all the time. I asked them if the NFI would say no if you were doing a major investigation and almost caught the perpetrators. That's the same question I asked the NFI. The answer to that question is that the investigation will then be carried out, but that other investigations will be dealt with later. That's how it works. I can therefore reassure Mrs Van Toorenburg on that point. If there is important, high priority research, it will still be done, even if it is on within the SLA. It must, however, prove to be important. That is why I am still dissuading the motion, because in general I cannot support it. Mrs Van Toorenburg then asked a question about the Forensic Policliniek Children's Abuse. That is what her motion is about. 559. I must say that the issue that has concerned me today was the five-hour AO on terrorism, which did not quite enable me to take this recent news to my attention. I understand that the NFI, the FPKM and the Public Prosecutor's Office have talked extensively about who is going to do the job where. There has been a form of tender. That would have led to the FPKM not being the one with whom the cooperation was sought, I have understood. I know the discussion we've had. I would ask Mrs Van Toorenburg to hold her motion. I am going to do my own research and will inform the Chamber by letter about the developments surrounding the FPKM, because it is too early for me to make a judgment on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u30	Mrs Van Toorenburg, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u31	I fully understand that. That's why I'm holding the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u32	At the request of Mrs Van Toorenburg, I propose her motion (29628, No. 559). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u33	I would also ask the Minister to comment on the fact that there is expertise at the children's centre that is not available at the NFI. That could be a good reason to take another look at this tender. Maybe the Minister can go into that. After all, the NFI should rebuild that expertise.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u34	I remember this text from previous debates on this subject. That is one of the reasons why I will include this aspect in the letter I will send to the Chamber. I have dealt with all the motions, but I have not yet heard from Mr Van Nispen whether he has tabled his motion in part No. 557 will hold.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u35	I've asked my co-signatorys for proper permission. We have come to the conclusion together that we can hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u36	At the request of Mr Van Nispen, I propose his motion (29628, No. 557). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u37	Mrs Helder asked for two things. First of all, I apologise for having been able to answer the questions so shortly before the debate. During the general consultation, I looked at the questions. Although we came in late this afternoon, I dealt with the questions immediately and answered them. I realize it would have been easier if I'd been in the office all day, because then the answers would have come sooner. But I did my best. Mrs Helder asks me to report on the progress made on the inclusion of the DNA profiles of investigators in the elimination database, on which Mrs Helder and I agree that it is very important. I'll do that. I just don't know what the logical place to do that is so soon, but I think Mrs Helder trusts me to find the logical place to report that progress. That is also an incentive for the relevant investigative bodies to ensure that there is progress on that point. Then the point of suicide. I've done a long time about the letter on forensic medicine. I would like to make a few comments on this. Mr Van Nispen and many others, including the VVD group through the then member Van der Steur, have asked questions about all kinds of aspects associated with forensic medicine. I have turned off a number of things on that point. One of those cases is an investigation that the NFI is going to do with the WODC, so I say memorized. This is in the letter I sent about it, which also looks at the aspect of suicide. This is not only the result of the parliamentary questions, but also of the comments made by Mrs Helder. There are two issues. There is the suicide associated with criminal indications and there is the suicide where there are no criminal indications, but only medical ones. That is what I am discussing with my colleague from Health, Welfare and Sport, because that is her portfolio. That is also the point: it is not for me to give an opinion on this in my capacity as Minister of Security and Justice. I am well aware that there are so many questions here, including those of me in the past, that I am trying to improve quality. That's what the Chamber was able to read in the letter. On the question of whether we are missing crimes because of the way we have it now and, more importantly, how it can be that the number of sections, judicial or non-judicial, falls enormously compared to other countries, we simply do not have an answer yet. That answer is due to the investigation that is about to take place. I would like to thank Members for the opportunity to speak with them on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-7.u38	We will vote on the motions next Tuesday.
