ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-7.u1	I would like to welcome the people in the Chamber and in the public gallery, as well as the people who are following this debate in a different way. Of course, I would also like to welcome the Secretary of State for Health, Welfare and Sport. This is a 30-member debate with three minutes' speaking time per group. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Leijten van de SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. €307.064, which is the annual salary of a home care driver in Amsterdam. He sits safely in the Port Building, a large office building overlooking the IJ, with good security, far away from the people who need care in his care facility and also far away from the staff who have been complaining about understaffing for years. This driver says he's not ashamed of his high salary. I'm sticking to the rules, and it's up to politics to decide what my salary is. A driver without a sense of standard, because in a sector where so much savings are being made, you can also say yourself: I go down with my salary. Does the Secretary of State agree? Does he think that's a driver without a sense of standard? 50 large-scale workers in care for the elderly made 19% more than in the previous year. That was the year before the Law on Standards entered top incomes. They gave themselves a raise before the law came in. We asked for a response from the cabinet. That says that exorbitant redundancy payments, like top incomes, are socially undesirable. They are. Drivers who earn above the legal norm and at the same time mass dismissal and wage dumping in the care, that just is not something to be proud of. But here it comes. The Chamber says that there are cuts everywhere, including in the top. She's passing a law. The First Chamber is coming back to deal with that law, because a cabinet that will go through everything that has a social impact will have to deal with its friends as well. That's the feeling in the States General. The law has been passed, but the minister doesn't enforce it. She hasn't prepared the content yet. The Ministry wasn't ready. My question is, how is that possible? Is it always the case that the VWS Department passes laws that are not prepared in terms of content? I have only one demand in this debate, and that is: Secretary of State, shows that it is serious, shows that you want to tackle drivers such as Eelco D. in Amsterdam and so enter the staffels on 1 March.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-7.u3	Mr. Chairman. The Labour Party believes that our tax cents should go to good care, to excellent education, to fine living and to fine TV programs and not to skyrocketing salaries of care bosses, educational directors, housing corporation directors or broadcasting bosses. The Labour Party therefore welcomes the new Top Income Standards Act, which entered into force on 1 January last, almost the strictest of its kind throughout Europe. That law sets a minister's salary as a new ceiling. The Labour Party has strongly insisted on this, as has the recent law on bankers' bonuses adopted by the First Chamber, which is also the strictest of its kind. Of course, I would have preferred the new law to apply directly to all drivers in the care sector as from 1 January. However, the fact that this has not yet been achieved is only a matter of time. It is a rearguard fight of those who have really taken everything out of the closet in order not to get the law in place. But they didn't succeed. The law is there and it will apply to everyone. Moreover, this year, for example, I have to see the law in a large health care institution alone, where the law does not yet apply to a new member of the board of directors who pretends to bleed his nose and soon wants to catch a little more than the ministerial salary. It will not only have to fight public opinion, but it also has some explaining to do with the Labour Party. Especially in the care sector, where the prospects for employment are good in the future, but where jobs are now being lost in connection with the necessary reforms, it is not appropriate to take a very high salary just before closing the market itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-7.u4	Does the Labour Party really believe that this year drivers at health care institutions are going to say, "Do me a ton less, because that law is coming?' We have been trying to standardize these incomes for so long. In 2011 I joined with the Labour Party, against the coalition and tolerating it, to get that law through. Now a spokesperson for the Labour Party says here: well, you will. Those caretakers aren't gonna do that this year. Do you really believe that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-7.u5	I do not know what the honourable Member has just heard, but I have not spoken the words she is trying to put into my mouth. I have pointed out that on 1 January a law came into force which is the strictest of its kind throughout Europe and which is going to apply directly to many drivers and not yet to a small club. I have indicated that I still have to see which directors are going to resist the pressure of public opinion and also the pressure of the House of Representatives. I therefore believe that we should not make the problem any bigger than it is and that we should certainly not try to put words in each other's mouth that have not been spoken. I promise that I will at least help to ensure that we are on top of it when drivers think that, as I have just mentioned, they will soon have to make use of the hole just before closing the market. I hope Mrs Gerbrands will do that with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-7.u6	The spokesperson of the Labour Party has really said: 'I still have to see the first care manager who does that'. In my opinion, it was his own minister who insisted in the First Chamber that the law should enter into force on 1 January because otherwise people would all still be using the old rule. He didn't want to. With all due respect, the healthcare sector has not proven in the past that it deals with the money very carefully. I therefore find it very regrettable that the Labour Party is in such a position.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-7.u7	I have just indicated that I am pleased that the law entered into force on 1 January 2015 and therefore applies at least to the public sector as a whole, to public service broadcasting and to all HBO institutions. The law does not apply to 13 universities, to perhaps 24 housing corporations and to a number of health care institutions. It might have decorated you and your party if you had tabled an amendment in the course of the examination of that law in order to burn it to the ground. Then I would have voted for it. The situation is as it is. If we're gonna hang out together, I think drivers who're gonna want to take advantage of that little hole soon have to come up with a really good place to apply for that high salary. I hope, therefore, that you will support me when we all see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-7.u8	That law was passed, indeed, with the argument that we had to settle it quickly because otherwise all kinds of strategic behaviour on board would arise, which would increase their salary before the law entered into force. That is what we saw when the first Law on Standards entered into top incomes; that is the reason for this debate. Now the Minister for Health has said that she cannot do this because she has not been prepared. Why did the Labour Party accept that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-7.u9	Perhaps for the same reason why the SP and all the other parties who have had the debate on the Law on Standards have accepted top incomes with the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations. That law states in Article 7 (4) that, where appropriate, some parts of the law could enter into force a little later. That's what happened here. I'm not happy about that. In fact, I am sorry, as I said. However, that is the law. I am now trying to do everything possible within that law to prevent a lot of people from thinking about bringing home a higher salary, even though they already know that this new standard will apply to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-7.u10	As Mrs Gerbrands has just said, I do not have such a high regard for the fact that those who say that it is up to politics to normalize them and that they will not do so themselves, now suddenly, out of some sort of sense of standard. Anyway, I asked the Secretary of State about that: what does he think of those kind of drivers? It is clear that the Labour Party does not actually accept this. That is why I am so sorry that the Labour Party has accepted that the healthcare sector should be excluded from this law. It is simply a mischief on the part of this minister that she sends a note about a law passed in the House of Representatives, which she knew was the government's wish to allow it to enter on January 1st, a week before time, stating that she is not ready with her preparations. Isn't that the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport's mischief?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-7.u11	I don't know if it's malpractice. I would have liked to see it different, as I said. Mr. Chairman. I have just said that it is not appropriate to take a very high salary just before closing the market itself, just like all the constructions do not fit to which the care patent seems to have no other purpose than to circumvent the first Law standards of top incomes introduced by the Cabinet just after it entered into force on 1 January 2013. These are constructions such as contracts with a working week of 110%, so that 110% of the old standard can also be earned, and contracts with two interconnected institutions so that twice the standard can be caught. The care is notorious for it. I am pleased that the new law, which entered into force on 1 January, puts an end to such constructions. An end should also be put to the phenomenon of the unilateral deterioration of working conditions which have been negotiated in the Netherlands in recent times. Whether it's V&D or Vérian, we don't do business here in the Netherlands. The Labour Party calls on employers, including those in the care sector, to consult with one another and not unilaterally to reduce working conditions, not only because this is the way we do business in the Netherlands, but also because another way of doing business opens the door to industrial relations that do not benefit employers either. Although this is primarily a matter for the social partners themselves, it does not benefit politics either. That is why I ask the Secretary of State to take a stand against the behaviour of employers who, on the one hand, allow themselves to be awarded royal salaries and, on the other hand, actually force their people to accept less, sometimes much less, salary. I ask the Secretary of State to state that he expects that in such a case, proper consultation will take place. I would also ask him to express his opinion on the desirability of bringing top incomes into care under the collective agreement, just as the Chamber has said in relation, for example, to housing corporations and education. Finally, I would like to hear from the Secretary of State how the department's discussions with the care sector are progressing on the so-called sectoral standard under the Top Income Standards Act. I have the same question about the pace of discussions from the department on the top incomes of health insurers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-7.u12	Mr. Chairman. In October 2011, I spoke in this Chamber about the Top Income Standards Act, the WNT 1. As I said at the time, it is hard to believe that drivers who work in the public sector and are paid by the public go home with exorbitant amounts. For years, we have been faced with grabbers and pocket fillers among drivers who are not at all concerned with what is really at stake, namely good care for the weakest in our society: our elderly and disabled people. It concerns good care for those who stay in an institution, but that care is not enough, sometimes downright bad because of the lack of well-educated staff. It is about good care for people who want to stay at home, but home care workers have to turn in their salary or are simply fired. It is about good care for people with dementia, for whom the so important daily spending is being cut short. It is about good care for people with disabilities who want to participate in our society. However, nursing and care are greatly reduced and the waiting lists are at the door. Good care is what this should be about, but it is being cut back while drivers continue to fill their pockets and refuse to turn in their salary. The sector has had its chance. There were agreements to achieve reasonable rewards, but the sector has failed. The reward code is the care has grossly failed. Many hospitals and care institutions were once founded by nuns. They did that pro bono, for God, or for free. Now no one from my group has to work for free, but some self-reflection would be in place. It is not for nothing that the WNT 2 was adopted at the end of last year. As far as PVV is concerned, this law is implemented retroactively. It is the responsibility of the government to stop filling the bags and get to work on what really needs to be done, namely to take good care of the weak in our society.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-7.u13	Madam President. There are cuts in the care of the elderly and the disabled and a lot of them. It is known how 50PLUS feels about this. The consequences are painful. There are fewer places in nursing homes and long waiting lists. There is less room for care and support at home, because municipalities use their poor Wmo budget selectively. There is uncertainty among caring citizens about the consequences of the Wmo or the Youth Act, partly due to the short import periods. Healthcare insurers and health offices buy less hours of care and also reduce the rate. Furthermore, many home care workers lose their jobs. This is dramatic for the availability and quality of care. But it's getting crazier. In June it appeared that top incomes have risen by almost a fifth. In order to complete it, it was decided at the end of December that 2015 would be too early to implement the Law on Standards Top Incomes, which has just been passed by the First Chamber. The deadline for achieving a careful and balanced settlement would be too short. Then make use of the transitional arrangements and start in 2016. Delaying the introduction of a law because the time for preparation is too short and there are problems, I have heard that before, and I know where. I said this myself, for example, about the Wmo. 50PLUS was certainly not the only one in this, but that was not the case. Some monitoring here, ten fingers on the wrist there, and it would work. The opposite turns out to be true. 50PLUS wants to hear from the Secretary of State how it can be explained in a credible way that, for example, the introduction of the WMO could not be postponed, despite all the signals and the risks we have already seen from afar. How does he explain that delays can be made when it comes to the income of top drivers, who can save themselves anyway, and that this is not possible when it comes to caring for and supporting many vulnerable people? In addition, how can we explain that so much money goes to top incomes, while the care is distorted and the executives who, if they do not lose their jobs, sometimes have to turn in their wages? If the Secretary of State can reconcile that, I'd love to hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-7.u14	Mr. Chairman. We are talking today about top incomes in care for the elderly. The VVD Group believes that where people are obliged to pay contributions for collective care provision, we should handle these contributions carefully. That is why the VVD Group has agreed to a further reduction in top incomes in the coalition agreement. This has led to the second Act reducing top incomes, the WNT 2. At the end of December 2014, the VWS Minister stated in a letter that she wants to make use of the transitional right of the WNT 2. Without this transitional right, the whole law would not have been able to enter. The transitional year laid down in the law will be used by VWS administrators to bring the sector to a careful introduction of the WNT 2. It is good that the lessons learned from the introduction of the WNT in 2013 have not been forgotten. Then too fast and careless implementation was corrected by the judge. I have a few more questions about this. The letter of 9 January from Minister Plasterk states that the transitional period will apply after the WNT 2 has been introduced into the care, that after that all top officials will have to comply with the law and that the European Convention on Human Rights must be taken into account. What does that mean in practice? How long will it take for all top healthcare officers to comply with the WNT 2? What steps does the Secretary of State take this year to introduce the WNT 2 by 2016? When will the Chamber be informed of its outcome? Does the Secretary of State have any idea of the number of officials currently not complying with WNT 1's regulations at present? That doesn't have to be in numbers; percentages can be. The VVD Group is in favour of the law, because people are obliged to pay contributions and these premiums must be handled wisely and economically. The VVD considers it logical that careful implementation is chosen, so that legal procedures can be avoided in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-7.u15	We know the VVD as a warm advocate for high-income care. We must be confident that it will all be resolved by the sector. Eventually, we're gonna need a law to standardize. Fortunately, the VVD has managed in the law that they have seven years to reduce their salary to a balanced income. Now I was wondering whether the VVD does not think this is a good idea for all those home care workers or youth care workers who are being dismissed; should they not also have seven years to adapt to their new situation by appealing to the European Convention on Human Rights?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-7.u16	The VVD is in favour of this law, which restricts the income of the top. We believe that excessive rewards should be reduced. Employers and workers in care determine their working conditions and their social plan. As a politician, we are not going to enter it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-7.u17	Okay, so if a law is needed to normalize drivers because otherwise they're gonna grab, grab, grab, grab, they're gonna have seven years to adapt to their new situation and they're gonna make a ton and a half, but employees can just get out. That's how we remember the VVD!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-7.u18	You put words in my mouth that I have not spoken. The VVD believes that the law can be introduced, but the law applies. The first WNT was corrected by the judge because it had been handled carelessly. Anyone in the Netherlands can get justice from the judge. That is what has happened in this case, and it is also happening for the home care worker. For the VVD, everyone has to be able to get their rights. We respect that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-7.u19	Mr. Chairman. I notice that we have actually already started tomorrow's debate on the non-implementation of the WNT 2. I would like to say a few words about this very briefly, because I actually do, and several Members have already said this, and I think it is a bit of a shame for Parliament if we have to pass a law with steam and boiling water. The CDA has already asked if it was careful and if everyone was well prepared for it. The Minister said: yes, that's all right. Later we found out that this is not the case and this law is destroyed by a back door. That is not the way we should deal with each other here in the Chamber. We indicated that we were concerned about the deadlines. We indicated that we were concerned about the scope. The directors of the health insurance companies simply continue with their enormous rewards. The same applies to other areas of care, such as doctors who are still not covered by any regulation. That is where the real problem lies. The grab will continue, because the law we have now passed does not provide the ultimate solution. However, we would not be discussing that at all today. We were going to talk today about the fact that salaries in health care are increasing. We understand from the Secretary of State that he cannot actually judge the documents that are before us. We're inviting him today to do that anyway. We have read that there are still drivers in this sector, particularly in the care of the elderly, who have seen their salaries rise. What's going on out there? How will the Secretary of State respond to this? You can make everything exist, say that you're going to analyze things even further and that there's gonna be another law, but that's not enough for the CDA group. How are we going to ensure that the drivers who seem to want to make their move get to know their limits? At the moment, we are seriously looking at healthcare expenditure. We see that a lot of people in the execution unfortunately lose their jobs. It is precisely then that directors should not continue with their exorbitant rewards. How does the Secretary of State deal with the figures that have come to us about the increase in salaries in care for the elderly? That is our question for the Secretary of State today. That was actually the subject of this debate. How are we going to ensure that we have clear data on which we can rely? We also want, above all, that the construction that a person works for half of a house corporation and for the other half in care, in order to eventually increase wages along that road, is no longer possible. We want a Secretary of State to take action against this. I think that was the subject of today's debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-7.u20	I have a question about the start of Mrs Van Toorenburg's contribution. I have indicated that I regret that the Top Income Standards Act did not apply directly to everyone on 1 January. By the way, it applies to most of them. The CDA voted against the Law on Standards Top Incomes. May I conclude from this that the CDA would have preferred that the new, more stringent Law on Top Incomes would not have applied to anyone at all on 1 January?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-7.u21	We have stated in general consultation and in the plenary debate that this law is not the solution, that we can say here that we have arranged it, but that we would see the next day that it is not settled. We would not have wanted us to be right so quickly. We would have liked to have a proper regulation right away, which includes doctors. They're not gonna sit on a hospital board anymore. We do not think that is desirable. We are covered by compulsory insurance, but the insurers' directors earn more than five tonnes. It just goes on and on. We didn't get it right. We wanted to. We also wanted to get a look at the payroll building. We have heard nice talk in which it was said that it would have no effect on the people of the drivers, but it is striking that there is still no such law. Why not? Because they don't come out with the unions. Why not? Because it does have consequences for the payroll building. We just didn't have a good deal. Unfortunately, we were right too soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-7.u22	I would like to invite Mrs Van Toorenburg to work with the PvdA in bringing down the salaries of health insurers. I've made a plea for that before. I have just asked the Secretary of State how the discussions are going. I didn't really hear an answer to my specific question. That is why I myself draw the conclusion that the CDA would prefer that on 1 January 2015 no one with a top income would go back in salary than what we have now realized, namely that this is true for a lot of drivers and not for a very small part. For that small part too, this will happen very quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-7.u23	It is really worrying that we have given society the impression that we have tackled the grabs in the public and semi-public sectors. However, the law we have passed is a model of this coalition's inability to resolve it. That is what we have been calling for for six months. We said that the problem had not been solved. And what do we see a week after the beginning of January? They drop it laughing from their hands. That's what happened. We have said tough talk to society: look, we have solved it! No way. People had to hear that. Everyone now thinks the grab's on. Unfortunately, thanks to the PvdA and the VVD, that has continued.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-7.u24	But the question was: would you have wished the law had not entered into at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-7.u25	I wish the law had been properly implemented. Perhaps it would have been a few months later, but then it would have been a good law that also covered the doctors and health insurance companies. That's where the grawning just goes. There is total inability here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-7.u26	This has put an end to the first term of office. The Secretary of State needs a very short time to prepare for the response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-7.u27	Mr. Chairman. Like most members of this Chamber, I believe even all members, the cabinet finds both inappropriate income and undue redundancy payments of care administrators socially undesirable. It is precisely for this reason that the Law on standards of top incomes has been established. After many years of discussion in which all the objections that you may have to the law, its creation or the way in which that is going have been addressed, we do now have the Law norming top incomes. This cabinet has simply implemented this law and for the first time has put an end to top incomes. The rewards of top officials in the public and semi-public sectors are limited. A new law has been passed: the Top Income Standards Act 2. It further tightens the ceilings. In addition to maximum remuneration, maximum redundancy compensation is set and a ban on bonuses, profit-sharing and other forms of variable remuneration is regulated. Of course, we can continue to differ on what is good and what is not good. I simply note that, after all the discussions, this cabinet has simply arranged that we have a WNT 1 and a WNT 2. These laws have entered into force and now we are faced with the question of how they can be implemented as quickly and as carefully as possible. There is, however, a reason why time should be taken in the healthcare sector, as well as in other sectors, to regulate this properly. That has to do with care. As the Court has observed, in a case before the housing corporations, the court has concluded that due diligence is required. In addition, there is work in the care with the so-called truffles. Mrs Leijten pointed that out. Not only does it set a ceiling that applies to everyone, but it also sets different ceilings for categories of health care institutions, large or small, complex or not, spread or not, and with a certain turnover.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I don't want us to set a maximum without looking at the consequences for the staff. In the worst case scenario, that would mean that we have a maximum, that the whole standard no longer applies and that anyone who is below that ceiling would automatically be able to move up to that maximum. So we do not want that, and that is why we need to propose a new standard. It's settled in the law. The sector must make a proposal, and if it does not succeed, the Minister must make a decision. This will then be done in November, so that the standard can be established. I'd like to do that as soon as possible. I note that the law has been introduced, that there is a transitional period aimed in particular at that standard and that there is a prescribed consultation with the sector. If this does not lead to sufficient results, the Minister can thus establish that statement. However, I have good hopes and I also expect that we will be able to get the proposal from the sector in September. Once again, if this is not possible, the Minister will have to decide for himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-7.u28	I heard the Secretary of State first mention November and then say that if the consultation with the sector has not led to anything, the stalemate will be fixed unilaterally if necessary. He also said: I have good hope that this proposal will come in September. I asked him to take care of it as soon as possible. The consultations have already started before 1 January 2015. So I would like to make one more plea here to ensure that it does not last until September, let alone November. Run that quick-paced consultation and get those staplings as fast as you can, so we all know how much pay these people have to go down.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-7.u29	I agree with the speaker. The sooner, the better! I merely note that the law requires a proposal to be made and that we must respond to it. We urge that this be done as soon as possible. Each month before is better.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-7.u30	The Secretary of State says, "Every month before is better." That sounds a lot better than September or November. Would the Secretary of State dare to mention a moment when he thinks that the stalemate should be there, assuming that the consultation has been going on for some time now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-7.u31	I must then predict whether the sector is capable of getting out of the way quickly. That will require consultation. I can't predict how much time the sector needs right now. May I express the hope that the sector will have completed this before the summer?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-7.u32	It would of course have been better if that had been completed before 1 January 2015 or actually before 31 December 2014. After all, everyone knew that this law was coming: the caretakers, the minister. But the VWS Ministry was the only one unable to make those agreements with the sector. Has that been unwilling? Didn't they want to be done by 31 December? Or was it powerless?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-7.u33	At least there was no unwillingness on our part. But Mrs Leijten may have imagined that the fact that it was not clear whether that law would be introduced did not promote the will of the sector to reach agreements. This has also not promoted the will to speed up consultations. But that doesn't change the fact that that law was introduced. We just need to get that stairwell in place. This means that we are now simply implementing the law in accordance with the provisions of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-7.u34	The only sector with an exception is the care sector. We know that this sector is linked to friendly drivers, who keep each other's hands above their heads, who move jobs and who enrich themselves. For years they have not come to a driver code to contain it. And we see Eelco D. in Amsterdam just saying in front of the camera: I don't normalize myself; that's up to politics. Is the Secretary of State prepared to take the lead instead of leaving it to the sector? Is he willing to come up with a vision of these staplings himself and simply introduce them on March 1st?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-7.u35	I just want to stick to the law we passed together. That law states that the norming of top incomes is there and that there is a transitional period in the event of stabbing. The sector will then be given the opportunity to submit a proposal on this subject and the Minister will then establish it. We've established that with each other. I would just like to point out that it is not so bad that there are these truffles, because that means that we have a responsible wage building. In this way we prevent the bottom from being lifted up to the new maximum. We need to look at the whole thing. I think that would also appeal to Mrs Leijten. Moreover, not only the care sector, but also the education and housing sectors have a transition year where this is the subject of these statistics. So it's not just in health care. It is there where these staplings are because the wage building must be right and brought into line with the new ceiling. Mr. Chairman. Mr Kerstens asked why carers are not brought under the collective agreement rather than individual agreements with the supervisory board. This is in itself a matter for employers and employees. If Mr Kerstens asks for my personal opinion, I would say that I think it would be a good thing if the collective agreement were to apply. This has also been highlighted several times. This was also the case in other sectors. I would point out that, of course, this should never be a reason to wait and see. That is exactly why the government has introduced the Law on Standards Top Incomes. Moreover, I would like to point out that it is not always an added value in relation to the Standards Act to bring top incomes under the collective agreement. The standard is limited above the highest collective wage, so for many drivers the standard below the WNT 2 will be lower than the highest collective wage. In this sense, the WNT 2 also has a strong normative effect. I agree with the point made by Mr Kerstens, that drivers also have an extra responsibility, especially when there is a sector under pressure and there are employment issues. If that is the case, I also think it would be wise and it would be a good signal if drivers were to assume their responsibilities on this issue as well. Moreover, I note that there are a number of drivers in the care of the elderly who have speeded up their remuneration to the maximum level applicable under the WNT 1. That is what is happening in the care of the elderly. Let's put that nuance in, too. I think it is right for directors and supervisory boards to realise that, in the light of the legislation, moderation is in place. It is also very good that there are good examples of people who are already doing so themselves. I have already discussed the issue of collective bargaining. As a follow-up, Mr Kerstens raised the question of whether I believe that, when there is a salary adjustment, it should be done unilaterally or that it should be discussed. Even if this is also a matter of consultation between employers and employees, I do believe that, if such a thing is to be discussed, it is simply a matter of proper consultation. I would like to confirm that statement to him. Mr Krol asked me why one law is being postponed and the other law is not. I'm gonna have to nuance him a little bit. That law has not been postponed, it has been introduced. As with many other laws, this introduction takes place in a number of phases. We have done so with a large number of laws adopted, for example, in the area of health care by this Chamber. The law and a number of transitional measures have been introduced in stages. That goes for this, too. I repeat that, for good reasons, it is very important to create this new standard of care and not just to look at the maximum, but at the whole salary building. Mrs Schut asked what this means for the international treaties. What exactly is the situation with these deadlines? In the original bill, the cabinet assumed that the rights of senior incumbents would be fully respected. In doing so, the cabinet based itself, among other things, on the legal advice of the University of Leiden. The legislative proposal was of a special nature, because government intervention in the contract freedom of private parties is special, especially in view of the conditions of employment. There are indeed all kinds of regulations, both national and international. After an extensive discussion in the Chamber, the phasing-out regime was established, with the core four years and then three years. This proposal has been unanimously adopted by both Chambers, creating a enforceable standard for top officials in the public and semi-public sectors. So it is indeed a weighting. What about international law and how do you create a transition period that you think will hold? As you know, Mr Blok once had to amend the law after the judge gave a ruling. That is why this regime has been established, which we believe is a reasonable phasing-out regime that can also be legally maintained. Then there is the question of how many officials are not satisfied at the moment. Each year, the Minister of the Interior sends an overview of the rewards above the maximum WNT standard to the House of Representatives. The last overview was sent at the end of 2014, with an overview of 2013. The staffs in the care have entered in 2014, so that information has yet to come. No enforcement pathways were needed for the year 2013. That doesn't mean that you couldn't be higher than the WNT 1 standard, but that you met the transition times. In this sense, there was no need to use enforcement pathways. Mrs Van Toorenburg said that if it had been a better law, we would have supported it. At the same time, I note that we now have a law, that this standard for top drivers is established, that we are talking about stables in the care of the elderly, and that we are looking at the whole salary building, taking into account the ceilings, which will in many cases lead to a reduction. Those truffles as such limit all the space to just add up the reward. There is not only a ceiling, but also lower standards for smaller organisations or organisations with less commitment. Other salaries are covered by the collective agreement and are subject to discussion with the social partners. I have just said that I would not object at all to everything being included, but I think that we now have a system, including the very substantial adjustment of the bars, which sends a good signal to the sector and to the people. I also believe that it is a manageable system and that it will at least lead to the reduction of the top payers in the healthcare sector and in the elderly care sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-7.u36	The input of the PVV is not responded at all. It just gets skipped. I understand that, because I have clearly indicated that the money must go to good care, but what do I hear the Secretary of State say here: with these kinds of laws it must go carefully. With great carelessness, all kinds of austerity measures and new laws have been pushed through and we now have to deal with the drivers carefully? I think that's really outrageous.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-7.u37	With apology, I had intended to answer your question with my introduction, in which I indicated which factors we should take into account in order to introduce that Top Income Standards Act. I'm sorry that's not the case. I noticed that we have been talking for years about reducing the remuneration of top drivers. Mrs Gerbrands has called for this on a number of occasions, and others have called for it. Now we have that law. This means that the cabinet has now introduced that restriction. I think that's a good step. With you, we say that in a sector that is under great pressure we should also look at the top rewards. They're being dealt with now. This is done even more carefully in the care of the elderly by working with staff. That way we finally have that norm. We may be able to differ on the question of the introduction and the transitional periods; you can also have that discussion. But I am glad that we have now managed to limit the top rewards.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-7.u38	The PVV is also very happy that it is all arranged, but it is a pity that this is postponed again, with the excuse that it has to be done carefully. I predict that we will be back here in December. This year all kinds of people appear to have been employed in the care of the elderly who are paid far above that new standard. I drew attention to the fact that 'it must be said carefully', when all kinds of measures are being taken here which are particularly careless, but which have to go through because they are making money. And then we're just gonna let the top sit, when we could cut less if we take the money away from the top.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-7.u39	That calculation does not go well, but I agree with the feeling that if you have to cut a lot of money, you have to pay extra attention to the fact that the top incomes do not rise. That's the reason for the law. By the way, when we make that law, when we intervene in these many industrial relations, it applies from high to low that if nothing changes in your job or in your job, if that is the case, you can at any rate discuss an adjustment of your salary if you just stay in your job, there are due diligence requirements, including internationally, for such a one-sided salary adjustment. Those requirements need to be taken into account to determine the pace at which the adjustment can be made. The law has ruled on this in another sector. That is why the government has now put forward a proposal that will stand up legally so that we don't get any hassle about it. We share the feeling. We also share the reason why this law was enacted. This means that the cabinet must choose a path of introduction which, in any case, is legal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-7.u40	The reason for this debate was the news that in the year preceding the old norming top incomes the top 50 of grabbers in the care of the elderly had added just as 19%. Now 19% of a euro is not that much, but 19% of two or three tonnes is much more, as the Secretary of State knows. How does he feel about that? What guarantee does he have that in the coming year a number of caregivers will not be able to adjust to an exorbitant standard, so that they can take a long time to reduce that salary again when the law comes into force?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-7.u41	Mrs Leijten knows that in the top 50 there are some posts that were included in the second year, which were included on that list and were not included in the WNT standard. I'm thinking pension contributions and stuff like that. So you can't compare it that way. You cannot say that this has increased salaries by 19%. It's just different numbers: what do you add up? Mrs Leijten knows that, too. First of all, this. Secondly, I am now saying 'now' - there is no reason to assume that this will lead to an increase in order to be able to do so as quickly as possible. I also point out that if you change jobs now, you don't have that transition period at all. This means that there must be an existing situation where you say: shall we do something? For example, you have to make an appointment with the Supervisory Board, knowing that the law is coming. That's what social pressure is for. The law's coming. The truffles will be published soon. As I said, there is also social pressure. Then let's wait and see the results. Then we will indeed meet here at the end of 2015 to see how things turned out. However, I do not yet have any signs that it is going to be a major problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-7.u42	The subject of exorbitant rewards at the top of the public sector was already under discussion by the SP in the 1990s. Then everyone thought it was blood normal that the summit enriched itself. In the meantime, we have a law. That's fine. But what guarantee does the Secretary of State have that in the coming year the directors will suddenly have a sense of standard and say: there will be a law coming, there will be social noise, we will moderate? This social fuss has been around for decades. What guarantees does the Secretary of State have? Did he make any arrangements about it? Is he going to publicize directors like Eelco D. in Amsterdam? Or is he turning away from that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-7.u43	This problem has indeed been the subject of discussion since the 1990s. That's right. This cabinet says it should not be a subject of discussion, but we should do it. That's why we make a WNT 1 and a WNT 2. We then have a discussion with each other about how quickly it can be introduced, how the legal situation and so on. That is all well and good, but I note that this cabinet has made a law setting standards for the incomes of top executives to which everyone has to abide. I don't care what you think about that either. There is now a legal standard. He's gonna love one driver and the other one isn't. One driver will anticipate it by adjusting his income, while the other will say: yes, but I abide by the law. I don't care. We have a law that standards, and that is a very good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-7.u44	Thank you. That brings us to the end of the first term. The second-term speaking time shall be one minute, including the reading of motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-7.u45	Mr. Chairman. Old people in the country have to go to court to get domestic care. They have to go to court to get housekeeping! At the same time, the VWS Ministry says: we weren't ready to set boundaries, as it's called drivers. This could have been done just fine! A sector that sees that mass cuts in people's care should have come to the Ministry: will we ensure that it starts on 1 January? But no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. We're cutting back on the base, we're cutting back on the top, but we're leaving it untouched. I can't explain that. That is why I have tabled a motion in which I say that this law and these statements should not be introduced until 1 January 2016, but as of 1 March 2015. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the WNT 2 was adopted by the States General;]] [[calls on the Government to implement the WNT 2 Staff Regulations on 1 March 2015,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Leijten, Mr Krol and Mr Gerbrands. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30111-80]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-7.u46	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for his clear answers. He has indicated that unilateral deterioration of employees' conditions of employment cannot be addressed and that consultation with trade unions should simply take place. I think that's a good signal. That's how we do it in the Netherlands. I am also pleased with the statement by the Secretary of State that he assumes that, with most incomes actually below the ceiling, these staplings should probably be there before the summer. I have a motion co-signed by Mrs Leijten. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that a significant number of directors in the health and welfare sector have recently become more earning and that this trend contrasts sharply with the salary development of ordinary staff in the health and welfare sector;]] [[Whereas both the transparency and the "suitability" of the top incomes of directors in the health and welfare sector would benefit from a single collective agreement for employees and directors;]] [[calls on the Government to urge the various employers' organisations active in the health and welfare sector to include top incomes under the applicable collective agreements;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kerstens and Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30111-81]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-7.u47	We have just heard from the Secretary of State that it would lead to an increase in income if the remuneration of top executives were brought under the collective agreement, because collective bargaining wages are higher than the normalization of WNT 2. Then why is Mr Kerstens tabling this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-7.u48	In my view, the Secretary of State has said that a number of maximum salaries for managers in small institutions, now that we are working with staff in the care sector, may be very close to the maximum wages in existing collective agreements. That may be true, but that does not mean that those salaries would go down even further. I indicated in my motion that, as far as we are concerned, there are a number of important arguments for asking the Secretary of State to speak on this matter. He has already done it, by the way, but it could be even clearer. The motion also has an important signal effect. I am referring here to the argument that it would be a good idea to create a little more transparency about the development of top incomes. The signal must also be that these incomes automatically follow the same trend as wage developments in collective agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-7.u49	I don't hear an answer to my question. We've just heard that collective bargaining wages are higher than wages in the WNT 2. Isn't Mr. Kerstens a member of a party that is in favour of those rewards going down? The VVD has also agreed to this law. I therefore do not understand why the PvdA is now in favour of leaving this to employers and employees, which would lead to higher wages.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-7.u50	The latter is an assumption made by Mrs Schut-Because of which I do not share. I have already tried to bring that up in my answer. I also think that transparency, and keeping top incomes up with other salaries in the sector, would be very helpful if we were to make these matters the subject of discussions between trade unions and employers, for example. The Court also found the same when it came to housing corporations or the education sector. Similar motions have been tabled and adopted concerning those sectors.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-7.u51	Mr. Chairman. My group has no confidence that the field can reach good agreements. That is why it co-signed the motion of the SP. I would also like to return to the reference made by the Secretary of State to the Court of Justice of the Top Income Standards Act. The corridor to the judge in which it was about domestic aid has not led to any change in policy either. This is clearly measured by double standards. I hope the Secretary of State will respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-7.u52	Mr Krol and Mrs Schut have informed me that they will not use the second-term speaking time. That is why I am now giving the floor to the last speaker, Mrs Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-7.u53	Mr. Chairman. So it turned out to be a rather disappointing debate. The frame should stay focused on the square kilometer here in The Hague. It's like a spider. We've set standards. Fortunately, the Secretary of State also said today that the standards are not actually feasible. That's what's bothering us right now. With steam and boiling water half work has been done. In the end, this has not led to the solution we have been told. What the Secretary of State has not yet done is to say what he is going to do seriously with those people who have just gotten a tooth or who have just refused to comply with the rules. Mrs Leijten has just made an attempt to hear that from the Secretary of State in an interrupting debate. Are the Secretary of State or his ministry really going to go through the door to talk about this? Is he going to ask whether these people realize what social responsibility they have? Or is he just gonna let that happen? That's what we'd like to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-7.u54	Thank you. This brings to an end the second term of office. The Secretary of State has informed me that he can respond immediately to the outstanding questions and to the motions tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-7.u55	Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Gerbrands asked if we're not measuring with double standards right now. It is precisely the intention of this Law that we measure top incomes with one measure. We can discuss with each other a great deal about the norming of top incomes. We've been discussing this with each other for years. Now, however, we have a law in which those incomes are simply set clearly. In fact, in the care of the elderly they started to work with these staplings, so that this normalization continues to work even more deeply. I assume Mrs. Gerbrands is happy with that. At the same time, we need to look at whether the law remains legally sustainable, as we have to do with every law. I also have views about deadlines that you sometimes have to observe in order to ensure that matters remain legally sustainable. However, I now notice that there is a law which sets this standard for the first time and which is also expected to remain legal. I'm happy about that. I hope that means that we have a new size, which also says something about the norming of top incomes. I would like to tell Mrs Van Toorenburg that I did not say that standards do not work. We have a law and that law regulates what the maximum reward is and how to deal with dismissal fees and all kinds of other reward systems, profits and bonuses. I therefore think that standards will work. Mrs Van Toorenburg asks another question: how will the new standard be in anticipation of behavior? We need to keep an eye on that, and we need to discuss it in discussions with the supervisors. I note, however, that there is a great deal of debate about whether there should be such a law on top incomes. There is a great deal of discussion ahead of it. But if there's a law, everyone's just gonna have to stick to it. Mrs Van Toorenburg then asks whether we cannot pay even more attention to those who in the meantime afford to do something else. Those people can't be stopped by law, but you can appeal to people. I note that this is already happening in the elderly sector. We will have to wait and see what its regulatory effect is. However, I am opposed to the claim that these standards do not work, because that is precisely what we have the law for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-7.u56	As a lawyer, I have a thing for law and for lyrics. The Secretary of State himself just said: we have a standard, we only have problems in implementation. He can read that. But more importantly, the other part. How is the Secretary of State going to work with the directors who have just enriched themselves, have given themselves more salary? That is quite clearly contrary to the spirit of the law. That's how we work here in the Chamber. What is he going to do to those who have just put a little bit of a tooth into it, which they will soon be able to slip off again?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-7.u57	The legal instruments are not applicable to them, as you yourself said. I can address them and I can ask the Supervisory Board to look into this and take action. Where appropriate, so is the case. My attitude is that we just have to enforce the law. The one in the motion-Leijten c.s. in piece No. 80 is asked, doesn't comply with the law. I believe that there will be another debate on the law tomorrow. That might be the place to discuss this. The law regulates the regime of that transition. It states that this should then be decided by the Minister on 1 November. That's why I'm dissuading the motion. In the Kerstens/Leijten motion in part No. 81 are asked to include top incomes under the applicable collective agreements. I have two reactions to that. I said it doesn't seem difficult for me to do that. This phenomenon has also been highlighted in other sectors. However, Mrs Schut said that such a collective agreement would not result in income rising again if necessary. That doesn't apply everywhere. You have to look very closely at how the new staff, which we don't know yet, is going to relate to such a collective agreement. I assume that employers and employees can make a proper assessment of what should be the guiding principle. I think Mrs Schut's warning is quite right. She said, "Watch out that if you do that across the board, you don't increase incomes unnecessarily." I should like to make this point and leave it to the Chamber to decide.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-7.u58	The votes on the motions tabled will take place next Tuesday.
