ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-7.u1	We are now starting with a whole series of VAOs and VSOs. The first VAO concerns ROC Leiden. I would like to welcome the Minister of Education. From the side of the Chamber there are six participants. Mrs Lucas of the VVD is the first speaker. Like everyone else, she has two minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. Following yesterday's general discussion, I would like to table two motions and put a question to my colleagues. The first motion is the same motion I tabled in June. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that ROC Leiden has been hit in acute financial difficulties by naive and amateur investment in real estate;]] [[Whereas rescue of ROC Leiden is at the expense of other institutions and this is only justified if this injection effectively leads to a sustainable solution for educational quality;]] [[Whereas the Minister has not been able to convince the House of this and is now sending money to the sector signaling that we must say that institutions can go bankrupt, but do not make that happen and thereby give drivers a free pass for malpractice;]] [[calls on the Government not to make additional funds available to ROC Leiden and to take the necessary decisions, within the framework of its system responsibility, for the orderly completion of education at ROC Leiden and the subsequent transfer of pupils elsewhere,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Notes that in the letter of 18 June 2015 on ROC Leiden, the Minister indicated that conditions are attached to the provision of additional funding for ROC Leiden tranches, including a robust recovery plan and cooperation in the region;]] [[Whereas the inspection has not actually fulfilled the conditions by rejecting the recovery plan;]] [[Whereas the Memorandum of Understanding and the Accelerating Document do not provide sufficient clarity on the conditions for cooperation in the region and the transfer and exchange of training;]] [[calls on the Government to comply with its own commitments and not to make an additional tranche of EUR 5 million available to ROC Leiden,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Lucas. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33495-86]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Lucas. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33495-87]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-7.u3	Yesterday, a large majority of my colleagues indicated that they wanted to transfer money to ROC Leiden. The fact that the conditions for the tranche have not been met does not seem to alter this for these parties. De facto, they agree with a blank cheque of EUR 40 million. For will the attitude of these colleagues at the next tranche be different? Will the terms be harsh? Or are my colleagues saying: go ahead with the next tranche, because that saves us a lot of time? They may as well decide today to make available the remaining EUR 40 million instead of having the same debate on EUR 5 million every six months. That would also give the teachers and the or of ROC Leiden a lot of time. Time, which they can better spend on education!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-7.u4	Mr Van Meenen of D66 waived his speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-7.u5	Mr. Chairman. I don't have a motion, but I do have a question for the Minister. Yesterday, in general consultation, the Minister stated that ROC Leiden is not involved in any way in the establishment of the 1 hectare school square at Lammenschans. The project agreement, which forms the basis for the development of that square, shows that the municipality of Leiden, ROC Leiden, the Community College and the Da Vinci College are indeed involved in the development of that square. This includes the ambushing of the garage company that is based there. If necessary, we want to expropriate that good company. My question to the Minister is as follows. Is ROC Leiden involved in the development of the far too large square? And is there or is there not going to be money earmarked for education? If the Minister does indeed think that this is not the case, is she aware of the documents of mayor and aldermen surrounding the new Lammenschanspark building of 22 December 2006? I'll wait for the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-7.u6	That's very sensible. Let us now listen to Mr Bruins of the Christian Union. It's the first time he's been standing here. We sometimes call that a maiden speech, but that doesn't really count for a VAO. So it's actually the warming up for his maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-7.u7	So we can just interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-7.u8	Yeah, you can just interrupt, but just hold back a little bit, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-7.u9	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for her answers in yesterday's debate. The teachers of the ROC Leiden teach the next generation of professionals with heart and soul. There is hard work on a better future, but the inspection also cracks hard notes. Considering everything, I believe that we cannot leave teachers and students in the cold right now. I choose the people in the workplace and express my confidence in them. That is why I will support the transfer of the next tranche, as announced by the Minister. I have two motions for resolutions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that it was decided to make available to ROC Leiden EUR 40 million in phases on condition that, at the end of the three-year period, it would be possible to achieve more small-scale MBO education of good quality;]] [[Whereas the Court should be able to assess whether the conditions of the rescue plan have been met when transferring a subsequent instalment;]] [[calls on the Government, in the short term, to make more unambiguous, measurable and time-bound agreements with ROC Leiden, which will be reviewed before a further decision is taken in the future to make money available, and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the ROC Leiden will cooperate with other MBO schools in the region as part of a recovery plan;]] [[Considering that this cooperation is likely to lead to an even more large-scale organisation which is "too big to fail";]] [[calls on the Government to make every effort during the implementation of the recovery plan to ensure that this process leads to smaller-scale secondary vocational education in the Leiden region,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33495-88]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33495-89]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-7.u10	Mr. Chairman. The former drivers of ROC Leiden who caused the unimaginable mess are no longer safe. It will be considered whether they can be held liable. At the end of January we hear more and that is more than justified. And then there are the advisors from ROC Leiden, who had a double hat on. They worked for the real estate company Green Real Estate. It is shameless and this double role must therefore be investigated. My colleague Rog is about to table a wonderful motion for that. I'm counting on the support of the Chamber. Finally, I have the same question as Mr Beertema. What exactly is going on with that square? The minister would have said it was a matter for the municipality, but we are getting signals that it is also a matter for ROC Leiden. I'd like an explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-7.u11	A brief question from Mrs Lucas.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-7.u12	I wonder how the SP looks at its own responsibility in this matter. The SP likes to pass it on to the drivers. We have all done this before. However, you agreed yesterday to a recovery plan that was not approved. You gave me a blank cheque yesterday. So how do you look at your own responsibility in this regard? I think you're as guilty as those drivers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-7.u13	And by "you" you mean Mr Van Dijk, I suppose.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-7.u14	I told you yesterday there are no winners on this file. It's extremely sad what's happening there. I said that I am not going to be in front of the support package that the Minister is now offering to ROC Leiden. But the choice is: do you support the teachers and the students who are taught there or do you drop them hard? I do not understand Mrs Lucas anymore, because that is de facto what is happening because of her motion. The former drivers who need to be dealt with don't feel anything about her motion. So in that respect, it's a wash nose that she's doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-7.u15	I would like an answer to be given to the question of whether the 40 million can now be paid in full at once. Or is Mr Van Dijk going to continue this charade every six months?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-7.u16	I have heard Mrs Lucas' question. I think it's an interesting suggestion. Nevertheless, the future of ROC Leiden is extremely uncertain. Mrs Lucas has made a number of justified points, which I myself mentioned in my speech. Is it solid enough? Does it even offer perspective? That's why we need to stay on top of it. All things considered, I choose teachers and students and I hope that the former drivers will be dealt with.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-7.u17	Mr. Chairman. Finally, the Minister will examine whether she can prosecute the megalomaniac former directors of ROC Leiden and the road viewers and hold them liable for the damage they have caused for years, of which pupils and educational staff were the victims. Thank you for that. I'd like to file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Meurs Committee finds that large sums of money have been transferred by ROC Leiden to financial consultancy firm Ilfa, which in any case does not constitute an agreement for an amount of €150,000, while Ilfa also carried out contracts for Green Real Estate at that time;]] [[also noting that the reporting of Integis shows that a complete analysis of whether there is an undue conflict of interest between ROC Leiden's advisors can only be established on the basis of an integral investigation based on bank statements and all outgoing cash flows;]] [[noting that the Meurs Committee considered that such an investigation was not part of its mission;]] [[Whereas a full analysis is necessary in order to determine whether there was an undue conflict of interest;]] [[calls on the Government to carry out an integrated investigation into payments made by ROC Leiden to consultants by a fully equipped and independent organisation, and to inform the Court thereof as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Rog and Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33495-90]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-7.u18	Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. Mrs Lucas asked that no additional funds be made available to Roc Leiden. I advise against that motion, which will not surprise you. This is the same motion that was tabled in the summer, which I also did not recommend at the time. The motion in part No. Mrs Lucas has asked the government not to make an additional tranche of EUR 5 million available for ROC Leiden. I also advise against that motion. I follow the advice of the Education Inspectorate because this offers the best perspective on ensuring education for students in the Leiden area. I note that the transition agreement and the acceleration agreement offer prospects for improvement. I agree with Mr Van Dijk that there are no winners here. We need to look at how, in this situation too, this is really no different than in the summer period, to ensure that education is of a high quality and is guaranteed for students.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-7.u19	The motion is, of course, about whether the conditions have been met, such as the Minister himself in her letter of 18 June 2015. I would therefore like a clear answer from the Minister. Does she think that all those conditions that she herself has set are being met at the moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-7.u20	I note that most of the conditions are met. I also note that there has been a critical report from the inspection of the recovery plan, but I also note that the inspection recommends speeding up the transition agreement. And that's what's happening now. So things did happen after that message. I think this is the best we can do right now. The reality is not always black and white, and that is also the case here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-7.u21	I note that the Minister himself admits that all the conditions have not been met and that she therefore fails to honour her own promise in the letter of 18 June.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-7.u22	No, that's a really wrong conclusion, and I didn't say that either. You put words in my mouth. I note that reality is not always black and white and that this is also true of this. I think this is the best we can do. In Mr Bruins' motion for a resolution (Doc. 88 the government is invited to make more unambiguous, measurable and time-bound agreements with ROC Leiden in the short term. As far as I am concerned, this motion is really superfluous and I would therefore like to advise against it. The acceleration plan already contains intermediate steps. At the explicit request of Mrs Jadnansing, who asked yesterday, I also indicated the milestones that we would like to set out. I think it is important that we now focus on the elaboration and implementation of this and that we should not ask for a new plan after the transition agreement and its acceleration. Let us get to work on this and make sure that further improvements are made in the workplace and in the classroom. I would like to add that, of course, I will keep the Chamber informed about the execution. So on this point, I will say that I will report to the Chamber and I will certainly report to it before a further instalment is transferred, which is now scheduled for the end of 2016. So I think it is likely that I will inform the Chamber about the state of affairs well before then, but when exactly that is then, I need to take a look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-7.u23	Can the Minister at least promise us that we will receive information well before the end of 2016 on the basis of which we can clearly assess whether the conditions for the timetable are met, as she puts it? I really do believe that at the moment you cannot clearly establish this on the basis of the information we have received so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-7.u24	Of course I'll admit it. I just said more than that. I said that I can imagine that, apart from transferring another tranche, there might be a moment, perhaps before the summer, to inform the Chamber of the state of play. I think and realize that we have discussed this very intensively and I can imagine that the Chamber would appreciate being kept informed of a stand-by. I just need to see what the right time is for that. I will, of course, inform you well before transferring the next tranche. In the motion in part No. 89 Mr Bruins asked the government to make every effort during the implementation of the recovery plan to ensure that there would be more small-scale secondary vocational education in the Leiden region. I would ask Mr Bruins to hold this motion until the debate on governance that we are holding together at the beginning of February. This debate will discuss the human dimension and small-scale secondary vocational education. We didn't talk about this in the AO yesterday. I think it is good to first define with each other what we mean by small-scale secondary vocational education.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-7.u25	For our youngest colleague, this is a request from the Minister to hold the motion. You can do this at the microphone now, but you can also discuss this in your group and do it later. That's entirely up to you. It concerns a request from the Minister to your address.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-7.u26	Mr President, I will discuss this in my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-7.u27	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-7.u28	If you didn't arrest him, I'd have to dissuade her, because I don't think she's gonna explain clearly what I'm gonna do. I would first like to have that debate in February. I'm going to move on to the motion in part No. 90 of Mr Rog and Mr Van Dijk, in which the government is asked to have an independent organization investigate the payment to advisers and inform the Chamber as soon as possible. I note that the Meurs Committee has also looked at the role of the advisers. The Committee writes on page 43 of its report that the payments made in the relevant invoices cannot be guaranteed administratively, that the allocation of consultants' invoices took place on the basis of addressing which did not always indicate the project concerned and that there is a grey area in the allocation. There is indeed reason to believe that it cannot be guaranteed that everything has gone according to the rules. The Committee also notes that a full analysis of payments made to consultants can only be made on the basis of an integral survey based on bank statements and all outgoing cash flows. This means that it can be a very extensive research, which also involves a great deal of costs. I propose that we leave the opinion of this motion to the Chamber, if I may understand it so that as a first step I will look at how promising such an investigation can be and how much cost it will bring. I will report to the Chamber in the promised letter on liability, which I will send at the end of January, on that first step. After that, I will definitely examine whether the research is viable enough and there is sufficient reason to have an investigation like this carried out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-7.u29	Thank you. It is, of course, very important for the bottom line to emerge from this conflict of interest, because this is public money that may have been pushed back and forth between these organisations. The bottom stone has to come up, as far as the CDA is concerned. If this does not lead to the exceeding of limitation periods, I am happy that the Minister interprets the motion in this way. I sincerely hope that it will be adopted. At the end of January, we will be able to draw up our minds and decide whether the outcome of the inquiry which the Minister has informed us of is one that we support.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-7.u30	Thank you. As far as I know, the limitation period is only for the drivers, not for third parties. But if it is different, I will also let you know in the letter of late January. Should that be earlier, I have no reason to believe that, I will let you know even before the end of January.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-7.u31	Mr Van Dijk, one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-7.u32	I would remind the Minister of a message from Omroep West of Monday 30 November with a very good overview of the exorbitant allowances paid to these advisers. That might bring the investigation a step closer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-7.u33	Thank you. Then we'll include that in all the other information we have. Then there is the question by Mr Beertema and Mr Van Dijk about the schoolyard. I indicated yesterday that there was a conflict about expropriating the premises of a garage company. There is an expropriation dispute between the municipality of Leiden and that garage company. ROC Leiden has no involvement and OCW has no involvement. The preparation and a 2006 document in which ROC Leiden is involved were also requested. I know that document, because it also occurs in the report of PWC. That document is an original housing agreement involving ROC Leiden and Green. It states that ROC Leiden will contribute to the school square for up to €788,000 plus 21% VAT, i.e. up to €950,000 in total. It's about moving a bike shed. The housing agreement was amended with a term sheet at the end of April 2015. This has reduced future housing costs. The details for a number of topics are now being worked out. The schoolyard is one of those subjects, but that is something other than that expropriation deception that plays. The commitment of ROC Leiden is now that the contribution to the school square is deleted. Those negotiations are still ongoing. You could say that these are loose ends in which many parties are involved. Negotiations are expected to be concluded in 2016. So it is not yet known whether ROC Leiden is going to pay and for what amount, but that amount is at least below 1 million and has no impact on the maximum contribution of 40 million. A sidewalk and bicycle storage are also parts that belong to a school. Especially in this case, it is not desirable to spend unnecessary amounts. I hope I have clarified yesterday's statement. So they are actually two parts where ROC Leiden is mentioned as part of a development plan. On one aspect, the ROC has no role whatsoever. Here is another legacy from a 2006 agreement. That brings me to the end of my reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-7.u34	Very good. Thank you. So much for this debate. Thank you to the Minister for her presence. Mr. Beertema, about the bike loft.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-7.u35	In the end, it is a schoolyard of 1 hectare that is planned there. I just want to be sure that there is absolutely no money at all, not even from emergency aid, I shall say, is spent on this deal, which still exists. How can the Minister reassure us? I'm still not quite convinced.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-7.u36	Let us distinguish between a schoolyard and an urban development area. That is now the issue, as I indicated to you yesterday. The sidewalk of ROC Leiden is part of that urban development area. I'm not a specialist in that, but of course you should be able to get into your school. That's where the involvement ends. I have indicated that the commitment of ROC Leiden is to get rid of that part that still has a loose end to it. I will report to you on the progress made at ROC Leiden, including this part of the negotiations, which will be concluded in early 2016. Mr Beertema's commitment is also my commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-7.u37	I do not think the Minister is giving a clear answer to this question. The question is: can it guarantee that the emergency aid paid by other rocks as part of the 40 million will not be used for both the purchase of such a ridiculously large schoolyard and the expropriation of a good company?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-7.u38	I just indicated that expropriating that company is a matter of the company and the municipality. ROC Leiden has nothing to do with that and so there can be no contribution. The 40 million brings me back to the cause of the problems of ROC Leiden. That amount is in a totally irresponsible real estate deal. I think we all agree on that. This will require additional resources. It's part of the real estate deal from the past; I can't make it prettier. My commitment and the commitment of ROC Leiden is clear. Furthermore, this section cannot affect the maximum amount of 40 million I mentioned earlier. I can't make it any prettier, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-7.u39	I wouldn't want that either. So much for this debate, and many thanks to the Minister for her presence.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-17-tweedekamer-7.u40	At the end of this sitting we shall vote on the motions.
