ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-20.u1	I hope that the Secretary of State will respond briefly and forcefully to the questions and respond briefly to the amendments and the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-20.u2	Mr. Chairman. A tax plan is a serious matter; it determines the purchasing power of households, the income position of the Empire, and it also determines employment. That is why, from that first Monday in the legislative consultation, I said that the cabinet is prepared to compromise in all kinds of ways and is prepared to look for majorities. I've had a lot of them, a lot of possible coalitions and combinations. I drank coffee until I got half a delirium. However, so far no majorities have been involved where the cabinet's desire and commitment to significant employment growth by a majority have been met. In all honesty, perhaps some firmer words have just been used, but I have no reason to use those firmer words against any group. I have seen all political motives equally honourable and noble, but contrary. The atmosphere has always been constructive with everyone in this Chamber. I'm the only one standing here without a complaint, but maybe later I'll be the only one with a problem. The effort was to send a letter of amendment which, if there are no majorities, would maximise the chances of a majority. That was rather cautious operation, because I had to meet one's firm wish without driving the other off the table in science, and that is confirmed that it would ultimately be insufficient for everyone. I have tried very explicitly not to choose one or the other political side. I've positioned myself within fine conditions. I have made a letter of amendment, which does not increase the difference between one and two earners, but does not reduce the number of jobs. Well, I beat the models till they gave in! It is green, I used the gas and electricity slide with a total pick-up of 225, I indicated earlier in the debate that the cabinet was prepared to go to the zip coderups with the stroke of the zip coderups and to make it a neutral rate. In one way or another, there must be a different rate for loading posts. In the letter of amendment, we also put an injection of 60 million into the EIA. The elderly are in it and have been met and I have already said to Mr Krol once in a while we also have a meeting in the hallway that I would certainly not be entirely satisfied with that either. From his smiling face, I can see that at least that worked. It's the hand-out that I've been wanting to do several spokesmen. The child care allowance and child benefit are also included. Both are about the child, but fit into another ideology. I'm telling you the truth. All in all, I have tried to maximise the chance of acceptance. Several questions have been asked. The President would be pleased if I answered a part in writing. The House has another letter with an appreciation of the amendments. It was still a bit turbulent with the amendments. Our amendment service has had a particularly difficult time this year, for which I would like to thank them from this point on. The appreciation of the amendments will be given in a letter tomorrow, because by then the amendments may be "silent'. By Mr Groot, Mrs Neppérus and Mr Bashir, I am forgetting someone else who has been asked about the income effects of the letter of amendment. Mr Van Weyenberg asked about the job effects of the letter of amendment. The last ones are zero, but I will put that on paper with the calculation of the CPB. I would also like to do that in writing, because otherwise we will have a whole discussion here about income effects that nobody can follow anymore. The chairman would be very angry with me, and she would be right about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-20.u3	That is true, but I hope it will be well before the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-20.u4	Yeah, we're running at full speed, full speed. It's gonna be tomorrow, but the power in the department right now is big and the lights don't go out until it's really late. I have also had several questions about what happens if no tax plan has been submitted. Mrs Neppérus asked this, as did Mr Groot. I will. The list is added. Mr Omtzigt asked what it means in terms of implementation and tariffs, and what it means in terms of law. I'll take that with me. I can also answer Mr Van Weyenberg's question on the same subject in general. Yes, Mr Van Weyenberg is right that the instruments contained in the SZW budget, such as childcare and child benefit, are not included in the Tax Plan. So they wouldn't be touched by that unless you decided to do something with it at the same time. But his question was: what about the Tax Plan? These are things that aren't in the Tax Plan. His hypothesis that the coal tax would then continue is also correct. By the way, the shift between gas and electricity, which is a larger amount of money, does not come. Temporary supplemental effects will be there again. It's about rent and care allowance. They are also in other budgets. But that's all gonna be on paper. I can mention a few numbers here. It saves an average of €700 a year for a single earner with children if the plan did not come. In the case of two-earers, that's roughly double. Then it's $1,400. For a single person the weather is €700. In the case of single elderly people, it is slightly higher; this amounts to between €900 and €1,400 per year, which would not go on. That will also be on paper, because we now have very little time. A number of motions have been tabled, but I see Mr Bashir...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-20.u5	Yes, a short question, Mr Bashir.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-20.u6	The Secretary of State just mentioned a number of figures. I also asked questions about Friday's letter of amendment. I would also like to see in writing the purchasing power effects of the package that has now been offered.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-20.u7	That's what I just promised.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-20.u8	But the Secretary of State particularly points out the consequences for the country. I would also like to know what the political consequences will be if the Tax Plan does not go through.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-20.u9	We're talking about a tax plan here, and I just want to talk about it. The political consequences are determined, among others, by Mr Bashir himself, because he is in the Chamber and I am not. I've received three motions. Mr Omtzigt is concerned about...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-20.u10	Mr President,......................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-20.u11	Finally, Mr Bashir.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-20.u12	It is a serious question that has been raised here by various groups. I cannot imagine that the Secretary of State, who has been working with the Tax Plan since the summer and far before, and who has worked very hard in recent weeks to forge coalitions, will not have any consequences if he subsequently sees that plan stranded in the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-20.u13	The stakes will remain very clear. The commitment remains, of course, to provide the Dutchman, who has surrendered so much in recent years, with relief, with a significant employment effect. Because that was the intention: we really want more people to work. I think Mr Bashir knows the answer. I am looking until the very last moment and I note that to this day the frequency with which my phone rings has not decreased. Giving up is not an option. I don't see the combinations yet, and I've had a few gallons of coffee. There's one combination I have to do right; there is. I say that to Mr Dijkgraaf. That plan was not acceptable to the cabinet because of the job effect. I'll give you that. I'll give you that. There is that combination.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-20.u14	The motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-20.u15	I shall begin with Mr Omtzigt's motion on item No. 87 (34302). He'd like to see the effects mapped. That's something I never want to refuse, so in that sense, I say yes. That is just a little more complex and longer than six weeks; he himself indicated that. I will therefore ensure that the effects are more systematically reflected in the course of next year. I would like to explain the motion in such a way that we will then consider, also in dialogue with the Chamber, what steps are needed and what steps are logical. I think that's what it says. I'll take care of the overview. Then Mr Omtzig can ask me about this and we can discuss whether and what steps are needed. For Mr Omtzigt's concern is very reasonable. We want to have all kinds of entrepreneurs undertake instead of just paying taxes. I come to the Klein motion in part No. 88 (34302). This is a sympathetic idea for municipalities, but that also immediately cuts the burden on labour. I must discourage the motion for that reason. In Mr Grashoff's motion to item No. 89 are called for additional measures. There's an ibo-CO that I'm gonna say it out of my head right now before the summer. April 1st is not sure. I'm not the one who can guarantee that. If we want to take action, we must not just look at taxation. I have seen taxation as a platform for environmental measures that have ultimately developed negative for the environment. Let me give you the example of car taxes. Let us not assume in advance that the whole problem of global warming must be solved through taxation. On the other hand, I understand his appeal and I would ask him to hold the motion until we have clarity about that ibo-CO. That'll be before the summer. I'm through the motions and the Chamber will receive a comprehensive letter as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-20.u16	The Secretary of State has undertaken to respond in writing to the amendments tabled. This morning we receive a good deal before the votes. I thank the Secretary of State for his presence and his answers.
