ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-4.u1	Mr. Chairman. In the military, people work for peace and security, from infantryman to mechanic. These people need to be able to trust that their employer, the Ministry of Defence, will do everything to ensure their safety, including when it comes to their health. However, people have become ill. They point out that they have worked with toxic substances for many years. The Chamber is still waiting for progress when it comes to chromium-6, the toxic paint. Today we are talking about PX-10, also a highly toxic substance, and a file that the Minister said would be closed. However, new facts continue to emerge. Today, last weekend, we have paid due attention to this, and rightly so. I have a lot of questions for the Minister. First of all, there wouldn't have been any pieces found in the 1980s. Measures would also have been taken since 1981. However, documents by EenVandaag show that no action has yet been taken in 1986. It's a document from the 1980s. No action; it is a list of the most basic measures that Defence could and should have taken in the 1980s. That is therefore twice the wrong information, because there have been pieces found and no precautions have been taken. Secondly, there is the RIVM investigation to which the Minister always refers and on which she also bases her conclusion that the PX-10 dossier has been closed. Several experts have doubts about this investigation. I don't know if the minister saw the broadcast, but also the RIVM indicates that the investigation could have been better. There's been one military unit and 23 people, while it's going to be a lot more people. It is said that PX-10 has not been recovered, but employees tweet photos showing that they still have PX-10. I also received new information today. There appear to be new documents, in the possession of EenVandaag, which show that not benzene has been studied but another substance: toluene. I don't know about it, but it's not the substance on which you can base an investigation with such solid conclusions, from which the minister eventually concludes that there's nothing wrong with PX-10. I would like to hear a response from the Minister on all the points I have just mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Hachchi put it well: the well-being of every soldier is not only for Mrs Hachchi, but I think for everyone in the Chamber and certainly also for the Minister of Defence of the highest and highest importance. No employer wants the staff or former staff to be sick because of the work it has done. Let me be clear about that. Therefore, I have often said, whether it be PX-10 or chromatic paints, that if there is a causal link between the disease image and the product used or the use of a particular product, Defence will and must assume its responsibility. However, it must first be noted that the illness or the complaints that are being discussed have actually been caused by the work. It is not for nothing that my predecessors have decided to initiate an independent investigation into PX-10. That was done by the RIVM. That is indeed what we are talking about. The suggestion is raised as if the report to which the EenVandaag programme also refers would be new. It's an inspection report from 1986. That report isn't new. It was known by the RIVM, it was known by the Defense Department and, if I am correct, it is also referred to in Parliamentary questions from 2009 or in answers to them. The inspection report actually shows that measures were announced at the beginning of the 1980s, that they were subject to a check; it is an inspection report, but that they were not complied with or by far insufficient. I think we can establish that on the basis of the inspection report. It is clearly not my intention, not my predecessor's, and certainly not mine, to withhold information from the Chamber. I think that is why it has been referred to earlier in Parliamentary questions. Not only the Belgian professor but also other people question the research results of RIVM. But I think Mrs Hachchi shares with me the conclusion that RIVM is not the first. It is a renowned institution, with a huge reputation, not only at national level but certainly at international level. RIVM has conducted the research in collaboration with two other renowned and internationally highly regarded research institutes. So they didn't exactly go ice cream over one night. Of course, there were enough reasons for me to ask RIVM if it would be appropriate to reopen the investigation after last Saturday's broadcast. The RIVM has expressly stated that it does not see any reason for doing so. RIVM notes that no new facts have yet emerged. Nor does the 1986 inspection report to which reference is made shed any further light on the investigation. Therefore, RIVM does not see any reason to change its conclusions at the moment. However, the RIVM has, fortunately, indicated that it will always be open to new information and facts. Mrs Hachchi referred to the cans of PX-10, which are now apparently available in all kinds of sheds. If it is true that those cans of PX-10 are still somewhere, then the RIVM wants to look very closely at the composition and the percentage of benzene in those cans. Mind you, the first signals we have received show that it is not so much about cans of PX-10 but about weapon oil. And weapon oil isn't necessarily PX-10, the cleanser we're talking about here. But it listens closely. If those cans are there, then we need to take a good look at the composition and the percentage of benzene. However, in the debate with the Chamber, I do not want the Ministry to become a play ball of discussion between scientists. I'm not a scientist in this field. Mrs. Hachchi isn't either. We'll have to listen to a renowned institute like RIVM.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-4.u3	The Minister did refer to the tins of PX-10 in the barns of people, but she did not listen to my input and the points I indicated. It has also not taken note of the new facts that have emerged during the broadcasts of EenVandaag on Friday and Saturday. The Minister can repeat the story. I'm not questioning RIVM as an organization either, but we're talking about new facts. The Minister did not discuss my points in her first round. I have the pieces here in front of me. In the first instance, the Minister indicated that there are no documents from the 1980s, but those documents appear to be there. The Minister has indicated that measures have been taken since 1981, but the documents show that the most basic measures have not even been implemented. I want a response from the Minister to the fact that she has shared false information with the Chamber. New facts have also emerged which could call RIVM's investigation into question. I do not know if the Minister has seen the broadcast of EenVandaag, but in that broadcast the RIVM also indicated that the research could ideally have been different or better. The fact that it is not just about the Navy but also about other military parts was also revealed. Only 23 people have spoken, but they are hundreds of people. The Minister does not go into these new facts. I understand that this is a little Question Time and that the counter is running. I would also very much like to have a debate with this Minister on this dossier, but I would nevertheless like the Minister at least to address these new points during Question Time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-4.u4	It will not be dealt with more quickly by raising the number of votes. It is now a question of reference to the inspection report in Parliament's 2009 questions. I did just say that. precautionary measures were announced in the early 1980s. Such measures are intended to be implemented and complied with. To check that, there are inspections. The 1986 inspection report shows that, in the specific case of the Navy, this was not or by far insufficient. As a result, it has regained its focus. In other words, I'm not withholding information. In 2009, answers to parliamentary questions already referred to that specific report. Of course I have been in contact with RIVM on the occasion of the broadcast, as I said in the first term. RIVM has strongly confirmed to me today, again, that there is no reason for RIVM to reopen the investigation now or to change the conclusions. According to RIVM, no new facts have come to light. That is the answer to Mrs Hachchi's questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-4.u5	Mrs Hachchi would not like to raise her voice either, but this is due to the answer given by this minister. The Minister states that the information was known to the Ministry, but that is not in line with the response we had earlier from the Minister, namely in October 2014, when the Minister indicated that there were no reports from the 1980s. That's just not right, really. This Minister himself states that measures have been implemented since 1981 and that they will be complied with. It is still strange that after five years the most basic measures have not been complied with, at least in the Navy. That's two things that just don't add up. I have still not heard the Minister give a convincing answer on that point. The Minister once again supports RIVM and says: RIVM sees no need for research. I hope, after these facts, that this Minister himself sees the need for a new investigation. I see my speaking time is over. Clearly, my group would very much like to have a debate on this. My colleague has already requested a debate. It is very important for the Chamber to discuss this with the Minister in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-4.u6	We shall come back to that during the course of the work. The Minister now has the floor to answer the last outstanding questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-4.u7	Ms Hachchi refers to an answer I would have given on 7 November 2014. It talks about measurements and risk analyses. However, this is an inspection report from 1986. That's different from a measurement and a risk analysis. I am really willing to be as transparent as possible. In 1981, when the first measures were announced, I was not even in high school. So I too have to do it with the historical research. The same goes for Mrs. Hachchi. All the documents produced in the past by WOB requests and by its own historical research show that the 1986 inspection report was already known. The inspection report is clearly different from the measurement and risk analysis. In short, I will remain in conversation with the RIVM. If it turns out that there are cans of PX-10 at our disposal, we will, of course, look at it. At the moment, RIVM has indicated that I do not see any reason to reopen the investigation or amend the conclusions. I think it's good to follow developments. As these developments come to light, for example when it comes to those cans of PX-10, we will act. It really is too soon for me to say that we can now put the independent investigation of such a renowned institute at the trash can. That really does not do justice to the work of the RIVM.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-4.u8	I will indeed request a debate on this later, because we have not yet finished discussing it. I'll ask you a question. The minister saw the broadcast. She has seen that there are people with severe health problems, possibly due to PX-10. She also saw that EenVandaag shoots RIVM's investigation to pieces. RIVM itself admits that it could have been better. Then the minister should not hide behind the RIVM, but now say "I have seen the broadcast and there is reason to help my staff," as she does with chromium-6? And then the Minister should also say: that investigation is being reopened and I will provide a decent compensation scheme for those who have now become seriously ill under my ministry.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-4.u9	My predecessor then took the responsibility that I have now taken with regard to the chromatic paint. There was indeed a coulance regime in place at the time of the investigation. When conclusions were finally drawn in connection with the investigation, it was not said: we are now going to recover the compensation received. That's all handled very neatly. There is no direct causal relationship, as we are currently investigating for the chromatic paint. The big difference is that for PX-10 the research has been completed, while for the chromatic paint it is still running. I really think we should be careful not to become a game of the different scientists here as politicians. When I see who has all been involved in the research on PX-10, I really think that we should be careful to establish that the report or the research results would be wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-4.u10	It is clear that we share at least one thing, and that is the concern about the state of health of the military and former military. No one wants these people to play ball in this discussion. I followed the one-day broadcast and I was here in 2009, so I followed not only the file, but also the people and their complaints. For me as a member of the Labour Party, there are serious health problems. The minister himself said, "Maybe it's the weapon oil, maybe something else." I would ask the Minister to look again carefully at how to deal with this and to inform the Chamber about it. What we share is concerns about people's serious health problems. This is a causal relationship with the health complaints, which should not be played by the RIVM, the people and the organizations. I ask the Minister to find out and also to involve the Inspector Military Healthcare. The Court receives an annual report each year. What I see from this is that the Inspector of Military Health, appointed for this purpose and mandated since 1989 from the IGZ, does not notice this and understands it within his or her duties.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-4.u11	I would be happy to send a letter to the Chamber in response to the developments that may have been taking place since last Saturday, for example in the case of new facts that could be revealed by cans of PX-10 that have been found. I regret the health complaints of former employees, but we must be very careful with a direct link to the work done. I have said it many times: if it is up to the Defence Department to assume its responsibilities, then we will not hesitate. I'd be happy to send a letter to the House of Representatives. I trust that we will be able to discuss the matter further in the light of that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-4.u12	Perhaps there will be a debate, but Question Time gives me the opportunity to ask another question. It has been said before that there is a lot of unrest. The minister says she's not a scientist. There are few MPs who are a scientist and have this expertise. Is the Minister prepared to take seriously an earlier proposal by Mr Eijsink to make a counter-expertise to remove the unrest that has arisen among the staff?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-4.u13	I think we have talked about this before. I explained at that time that RIVM is actually organising its own counter-expertise. The Institute has done the same in this case. Conversations were held following earlier broadcasts by EenVandaag. I will include this point again in my discussions with the RIVM. RIVM is a renowned institute. Frankly, I could hardly appoint a partner in the Netherlands to have a counter-expertise on that. Mr Knops knows as well as I do that not only the RIVM committed itself to the first investigation, the conclusions of which I believe became known in 2011. Two renowned international institutions, within which this counter-expertise is organized, have also committed themselves. In short, I am prepared to discuss this again, but we have discussed this before.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-4.u14	Thank you for coming to the Chamber, your answers and your commitment to send a letter.
