ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u1	Before I give the floor to the Secretary of State for Security and Justice, I give the floor to Mrs Keijzer on a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u2	A point of order or immediately a question to the Secretary of State. Next year's forecasts set the number of asylum seekers at 58.000. The only budget in the budget is 60 million for the IND. In itself that is enough, but if you do not in any way estimate all the other costs in any way in the national budget, then everything the Secretary of State said about asylum and migration is based on financial quicksand. Then we are talking about hundreds of millions for shelter, education, care, police and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u3	I think you asked this question yesterday in the first place. I assume the Secretary of State will answer this question as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u4	Sure! That's the first block after my introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u5	Then we will first give the Secretary of State the opportunity to make his introduction, after which he will go straight to finance, just like the Minister did earlier today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u6	Well, then, I have a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u7	No, no, because this was a point of order. I'm gonna give the Secretary of State a chance first. He's been listening here for seven hours yesterday. Now we give him the opportunity to make an introduction and then you can ask him questions again. I give the floor to the Secretary of State for Security and Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u8	Madam President. Yesterday I listened with great interest to the input and questions of the Chamber. We have also answered them in writing, but there are certainly questions and answers that I would like to discuss in greater depth. One of these is the question that Mrs Keijzer has just raised. Let me say a few words about the period in which we are now sitting and which is not very common. I will also deal with what is ahead of us and what all this means. Then I will answer the questions in a number of blocks. Since mid-August we have been faced with a historically high influx of asylum seekers. Not only the Netherlands sees a big leap, but all of Europe. All over Europe, we can see that it has exceeded all estimates and expectations. The number in itself already demands a lot of all our employees and certainly also from municipalities and provinces, but especially the fact that it comes so quickly and is so concentrated in the second half of the year presents us with great challenges. The greater the performance that is currently being achieved by the people in the country, who are working hard to ensure that the influx is safe and controlled. Those are the people at the COA who have to make sure that there are enough beds every day. It is also the people of the IND who are doing their best to make sure that someone here is really entitled to stay. Or it is the people of the Return and Departure Service, who help to leave when people have been told that they have no right of residence and it is the policemen who register and identify everyone, a matter to which the Chamber but certainly also the Cabinet attaches great importance. I also call the men and women of the Marechaussee and of the Defense Department who guard our borders and control them more firmly. That's on the empire level. In addition, there are many people working hard in municipalities and provinces to ensure new places and an orderly course in the places that are already there. None of these are self-evident. We also see a lot of volunteers in the country applying. Refugee work reported 10,000 applications today in the last two months, making them more than doubled their volunteer population. The high influx also requires many of the Dutch, who do not necessarily have this as their task to manage it, but as a resident of this country see that this is coming towards us and ask questions about it. In my view these are not two groups of Dutch. It is two thoughts that many of us have in many of our homes, including those who volunteer for an asylum-seekers' centre. Help? Yeah, but you can't go all over the world. How do you find that balance and how do you provide sober and decent care? How do you manage that in good ways, but also show that we take this concern seriously not only in the short term in accompanying measures at an asylum seekers' centre, but also in the longer term by coming up with other solutions for this flow of refugees. If you get an asylum-seekers center nearby, I understand that it leads to questions. You didn't ask for it and, quite frankly, you don't get one-two-three better yourself, but you've got 500 new neighbors. We do that, of course, because we as a country have a humanitarian duty to ensure that people who are fleeing from insecurity, war, persecution and human rights violations can find a safe place. But I also understand that people who are willing to accept this have the message: okay, we understand that this has to be done, we understand that we are not alone in the world, but then we also ask the Cabinet to understand that it cannot go on unbridled and that we cannot accept the whole world in the Netherlands. That is why the cabinet certainly feels the duty and the clean duty to work, also at European level, to contain the influx and to find alternatives that offer people safety, but not all here. I have also heard your Chamber express appreciation for the people who have to do so in the field. That is what they, I say on their behalf, will undoubtedly do well. Because a lot is being done. So far, we have been able to ensure that everyone has a bed and not sleeps outside at night, but we are in a situation where each of these solutions, no matter how fine, leads to concerns and questions, even in the Chamber. I understand that, too. Crisis shelter, when a municipality says: this sports hall can be used for three or four days, is beautiful at that time. That means people are sleeping inside. But in the long term, structuralally from crisis relief to crisis relief, that is not ideal, to say the least. Also the municipality that has done that twice thinks: yes, I have already contributed twice already, it's done here once. But if you look at the whole task, such a great effort of two times a week of course means only two weeks of relief for a limited part of the influx. So we have every interest in working together with the municipalities to find a structural solution. Of course, I can also set up large centres like Heumensoord in many places in the country. This is very pleasant for me, for my reception problems, but not everyone in the country can see that, and we can understand that. So there are constantly dilemmas about scale. Rather on a small scale, but the sum has to be right, because everyone has to have a bed. So we have to skip and, in addition to day-to-day care arrangements, also make structural improvements, so that we do not have to regulate the reception and use crisis relief in the same way for years. So I don't see any reason, even if the influx gets lower, if there's another winter dip, to get gas back into the organization. The influx is likely to remain high in the coming period. The containment has not happened in a few weeks. In addition to day care, therefore, we must also work on improving quality and ensuring that the reception is more quiet, with less often short-term solutions for which we have to destroy entire neighbourhoods. I told you, we can't contain it in a couple of weeks. This is mainly due to the fact that the solution is not on the Dutch table but on the European table and beyond. Europe has many good sides, but it is not the most rapid decision-making mechanism mankind has ever set up. Steps have been taken, such as reception in the region. If you look at what is on the table on Sunday and what is also being discussed with Turkey, that is something that was perhaps unthinkable in Europe some time ago. I would also prefer it to go even faster with the hot spots, after the meeting I have. I like my colleagues, but I prefer to have a meeting less and faster a practical result. I don't have the impression it's us. Our women and men, working on behalf of the Netherlands in Brussels and in the capitals of Europe, are working hard on solutions. There are conflicting interests among the European Member States. We must unite them. It's not our creativity as the Netherlands, but I can't make it more beautiful than it is. We're gonna have to bite through. I see that it is now working, I see improvements and I also have confidence that things will be going even better in the coming period. So much for my introduction. I'd be getting the hang of it right now. I don't know if you want me to name them first, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u9	Yeah, it's kind of nice if you name them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u10	I will start, as I said, with the estimates and the forecast for the 2016 inflow and the financial aspects. I would like to talk about the European scene for the redistribution of asylum seekers, about solutions with third countries and safe countries of origin. Next, I come to the shelter in the Netherlands, followed by a block on crime and asylum, which usually do not go together, but in cases where this is the case, it is necessary to take a firm approach. Finally, I come to regular forms of migration. As I said, developments around the asylum influx have been stormy in recent months. Since August we have seen a very sharp rise. Last Friday, I informed the Chamber that we are starting with 58,000 asylum seekers for 2016. That's a number that won't be far from this year's total influx. Now, of course, such an estimate is always questionable and we can discuss it. We will. Mrs Keijzer pointed to the European estimate that we can welcome 3 million people on the basis of unchanged policies. Mrs Keijzer considered it real that the Netherlands would receive 90,000 of them. In particular, I found this forecast from the Commission to be a signal to encourage the Member States not to leave the policy unchanged. Neither does the Netherlands. We must act to ensure that this influx into Europe does not reach that number. For example, there are several estimates that are mainly based on "if we do" or "if we don't" and "if nothing changes." The prognosis is difficult to make, because, like in the early 1990s, we do not have influx due to one fireplace, fairly close to the European continent, where we were actively working on finding a solution and where there was a predictable flow. There are now developments in the Middle East and Africa. They all have a lot of influence, are difficult to predict, difficult to control and can all lead to high influx. On the other hand, there are developments that we ourselves have more in control and measures that we are taking, including in the EU, to limit the influx of asylum into the Netherlands. I mentioned earlier the conversation with Turkey scheduled for Sunday. If this results in good agreements with Turkey as head of reception for the region and if the flow from Turkey to Greece stops, it will have a huge impact on our inflow rates next year. Then you could be lower than this estimate again. So it's all pretty tricky. In the estimate, we have taken into account the two opposite trends which I am referring to. We have taken the estimate of 58 000 as the basis for the budget. This will, of course, have an impact on a whole range of measures. IND and Nidos have already been mentioned. By letter, we have now arranged for them to be operationally advanced. The Office will soon be given a multi-annual overview of the additional reception costs resulting from the asylum influx. The existing agreement is that the costs of the first year of reception come from the Development Cooperation budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u11	In the Friday letter we read an anticipation of that 58.000: 50 million for the IND and 10 million for Nidos. The Secretary of State refers to the Navy Note, but we're discussing the budget with him right now. This includes the COA. That does not do the first reception, but it does the rest. If we compare this year's figures and next year's figures, I see a gap of 500 million in the budget, assuming about the same inflow rates. In any case, I think it would be useful to have an indication from the Secretary of State as to whether that hole in the Navy note is going to be closed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u12	I understand that question and I also understand the qualifications as "hole," "drift sand" or "risk." If we knew for sure that we had a particular assignment and we had too little money, if we knew for sure that we had no more than a certain amount and the assignment would certainly get bigger, then we really had a hole. We can window the size of that assignment, but not chisel it in stone. In addition, I do attach that also in last Friday's letter... I announced the Navy note. I didn't call that one for nothing. There's not gonna be nothing in there. We will make it clear what the implications are for the budgets of the departments. But we have also said that we are going to check with the Spring Note whether the estimate needs to be adjusted on the basis of the inflow we have seen so far and the effects we are seeing. Then we are going to act on the estimates that we then consider realistic. That doesn't mean we were blind to the organization. Maybe that's what matters to me. We've already done IND and Nidos right now because they need to know before then if they can move forward with their organization. The COA has known this system for more years. Yesterday was asked if this is something new. No, this is what the COA's been dealing with for years. It's also used to dealing with it. So it can also deal with the agreements we have made.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u13	The IND must be able to plan ahead, but I suppose the COA should also plan ahead. The Secretary of State and the Minister have adjusted these estimates from 27,000 to 58,000. I imagine that in the middle of next year, in the spring note, you're going to do another mid-term measurement. But planning half of what you're already providing doesn't really seem like a sensible budget. I urge the Secretary of State to at least give an indication. He himself said that we are not going to place people in tents, we really need to be able to give them shelter, especially if the freezing cold continues in the near future. Can the COA count on more support it has so far in the budget, that 430 million?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u14	The COA can count on the political leadership in the same way as in recent years: you know you will have enough for your mission. With the budget, you know you can make a good start. You're not gonna stop at the beginning of the year to get some left over, because you know there's a spring note and an autumn note to keep looking at whether the inflow is lower or higher and whether financial adjustments are needed for the COA. It's like this year after year. We had a spare, but it was exhausted at some point. The COA can handle this very well. It will not happen that we have extra money at once and that the COA says: we should have known that before; now we have nothing to gain from it. That's not how the COA works, and that's not how we work.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u15	However, it was the Chamber that almost forced the cabinet to amend these estimates with repeated calls. Eventually, that happened. The estimates went up sharply. Is this an oral guarantee from the Secretary of State that next year the COA will have sufficient capacity and financial resources to absorb the influx?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u16	We also had the need for the budget to make the estimates clear. Otherwise, this year we would have had a Navy note which Mr Buma rightly said in an earlier debate that it might be a good time for the system, but rather unfortunate for the budgetary treatment. That is why we have now announced this. We have shown that we have this commitment and that we are doing it. The Chamber can rest assured that this also applies to the COA. If the estimate in the spring note indicates that there is or is imminent a deficit, it will be settled in the spring note.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u17	I have a question about that. The Chamber can be assured that there is enough money, but at the same time I see that in municipalities such as Dalfsen smaller reception sites are rejected because of the'singing' argument, which is the cost. Even now, therefore, there is already limited reception capacity due to a lack of money. Wouldn't it help to clarify not only the money for the IND and Nidos, but also the money for the COA next year? In this way it is possible to make use of the wide range of small-scale reception facilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u18	That wouldn't help. Here macro and micro are a bit mixed up. It is not the case that the COA refuses reception because there would be no budget for it. The COA has to look at the possibilities per shelter. There are a lot of offers from private parties that say: I do have beds. When you look at the account, you think: for that money everyone can do it. That's not how it works. The discussion on small-scale reception is really separate from the discussion on the budget. If the COA had the full budget for an x-number of people, it would still be that budget per person. So that's not what this is about. It is not the case that the discussion on small shelters is being initiated, because the COA has looked at the budget and thought: we have a problem. The problem is manageability. Of course, a centre for asylum seekers brings with it a lot of logistical issues. It is not the case that the people who are there at some point will stay there as well. Those people must be up and down all the time, they must be scheduled and there must be care for them. These two discussions are really separate and it is not the case that the budgetary situation and the budget lead to the refusal of small reception sites.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u19	The Secretary of State has actually only just begun, but he is already showing a gigantic impotence. The Netherlands is facing a huge asylum crisis that we have long since been unable to cope with and the Secretary of State says: "I really have no idea what will happen next year. I don't know how big the influx is. It could be even bigger than it is now. I just don't know. It depends on the talks with Turkey and the European Union." Why is he making himself dependent on the European Union and Turkey? Why doesn't he finally take matters into his own hands? He is standing before the Dutch people and why doesn't he say: I'm closing the Dutch borders now and I won't allow an asylum seeker anymore. That's what he has to do. As a result, I have a specific question. Where is the border, anyway? The Dutch citizen has a right to know. Is he okay with having another 100,000 or 200,000 or 500,000 people next year? When will it be enough for him? That needs to be made clear for once.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u20	I don't see it as a sign of weakness to recognize reality and not to run away in the idea of making things work that if we close the borders, we won't be dependent anymore. That's bullshit. The Netherlands depends on the world around him anyway. This isolation policy only works on paper and in the short term. Pretty soon after that, the economy dries up, while we do depend on that economy. We do see that we need to check the external borders of Europe, which are also our external borders. We need to make sure the influx stops there. If we were to close our borders alone tomorrow, no one would stop us from knocking on our borders and asking for asylum. I also understand that it is not the PVV's policy to physically close the borders, but to walk more often along the border. There's nothing wrong with that, but let's not pretend the difference is so big. Let us not pretend that the party colours of those who make the decision lead to dependence. The upper limit cannot be set in advance at a certain number. But like I said, it's not unlimited. We therefore seek not to allow the influx to continue and to limit the influx to the whole of Europe by making a good agreement with Turkey. It's ahead of Sunday. There is no unlimited capacity in the Netherlands, but you can't say in advance: the number is x.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u21	This story doesn't add up. You can close the borders. You can close the borders for asylum seekers. You can just stop asylum seekers, because they're not refugees. They were safe long ago in the countries they came through. They were safe in Turkey a long time ago. The Secretary of State simply allows lucky seekers. That's gotta stop. I simply demand a clearer answer to the question. The Secretary of State says that we cannot go on like this indefinitely, but the Dutch people have a right to know when it will stop according to the government. Surely that's a very simple question. If the government doesn't even have an answer to that, while the Netherlands is really being overrun by an asylum rage that is unprecedented, it is very far from home. If you do not have a vision of when this should stop, it is proof that the foreign policy in this cabinet and with this Secretary of State is in very bad hands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u22	Now Mr Fritsma makes it possible to stop people at the border. At the Belgian-Dutch border I can't imagine much. In addition, everyone in Europe is going to do so. We then put our army there and Germany there and people then get in between those two armies. Those aren't exactly images that match the way we want to do it. It is not the issue, either, as long as there is still a view of a common European solution and as long as we can join forces to reduce the influx into Europe. That's important. I already indicated that you can't take people here indefinitely, but I don't think it shows much confidence in the strength of Dutch society and in what we can handle, if you hang a number on it and say that you obviously can't handle the first one that comes next. We have no desire to take in many people. I do agree with Mr Fritsma that it is also very relevant to take on board that people flee because of war, but that somewhere on that flight other motives are also going to play along. That's a fact. That is why we are also talking to Turkey about containing the influx. The starting point of the cabinet is that you keep people as close to the fireplace in safety as possible and prevent the further transit to Europe and the Netherlands as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u23	The Secretary of State remains stoic and tries to present the picture that he is realistic about this, but when I look at the financial justification, I keep that image on the retina of the lady in the Orange for the service car, so not at all realistic and stoic. The numbers of asylum seekers will continue to increase, and this is also reflected in their own estimates. However, it is not translated financially. So you'll end up in a situation where there isn't enough money. I have made calculations and will not repeat them now, but I think we are talking about hundreds of millions. How can the Secretary of State remain so stoic here and pretend to be realistic in dealing with asylum policy? In any case, the financial basis is far behind that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u24	Because I have already indicated the way in which the cabinet wants to look at whether additional resources are needed, given the estimates we have and possible adjustments on the basis of either changing developments in the world or successful measures to reduce influx. The cabinet has already decided to make the funds available by spring note. That gives me the confidence that it will not be there. Furthermore, I do not think that all kinds of links that Mrs Keijzer makes would otherwise have ended with another budget in the front seat.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u25	You can talk about that, but it can't be surprising that the situation at the borders of Europe is now as it is. I hear the Secretary of State say he's going to do it as usual with autumn notes and spring notes, but autumn notes and spring notes are for windfalls and setbacks and for unexpected things that come your way. This isn't unexpected. The estimate's already there. It would be neat, certainly from a VVD Secretary of State, if this included financial solidity in the budget treatment. That is not the case. The CDA is therefore responsible to this Secretary of State. He chooses not to include the Chamber in that whole process. That's too bad, but so be it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u26	I naturally regret Mrs Keijzer's conclusion. I am taking the Chamber with me in the process we have outlined. We certainly expect some things, but we also expect things that are unexpected and unpredictable in themselves. That is the reality that we must take into account. The number is expected to increase, but it is also expected to decrease. That is why we have chosen an estimate and a financing process in which we take into account all the scenarios we provide for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u27	There are over 60 million refugees worldwide. I do not think it is wrong to repeat this in this debate. The vast majority of these people are taken care of in their own region. That is also the case with the conflict around Syria. I fully understand the desire to manage the influx well and to know clearly who enters, where people are registered upon entry. I therefore support the approach advocated by the Secretary of State. Nevertheless, I would like to know what he is ideally striving for. Is he trying to say in the long term that the conflict in Syria or elsewhere is not in our region and that we will give asylum to the people who are coming here, but that we really want all those people in the region to be taken care of? Or is he saying here that the Netherlands will always take its responsibility?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u28	It's kind of lame to say "both," but it is. The ideal picture is that the Netherlands takes its responsibility to provide security in the region. In retrospect, you can say that it would have been wise if we had done so with Europe in this conflict a few years earlier. So you must not just say that it has to be in the region, but also financially and practically contribute to proper reception in the region that offers more perspective than it has been so far. In addition, our ideal is that you have a limited choice, preferably jointly with the European Union, to do part of the reception in Europe through resettlement. If someone from that region still tries to do it on their own through a smuggler, it is consistent to say: we have shelter for you in the region; if you are not eligible for resettlement, then you will not be eligible for spontaneous asylum if you come from a region where we have managed the shelter well, to which we pay and for which we bear our co-responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u29	There are more than 60 million refugees worldwide, of which I know very well that they are not really welcome anywhere. 60 million people, three times the number of people here in the Netherlands; that's a lot. So the Netherlands is actually saying that 500 per year are welcome from now on, because that is the quota that we are now using in accordance with the agreements with the UNHCR and the United Nations on inviting refugees. For the rest of the refugees, unless something happens in Europe, the Netherlands is ideally locked.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u30	Not locked. The Netherlands feels its co-responsibility by guaranteeing and providing security in a place other than Dutch territory. The number of resettlements is also linked to agreements with countries which significantly reduce spontaneous influx. We are now using this number because our resettlement programme is not linked to agreements with countries that lead to lower inflow.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u31	You can indeed close the borders for asylum seekers. That means that no asylum seeker gets a residence permit and you try to stop them at the border. That's an option. The Secretary of State doesn't choose to do that. However, I have heard him say that it may be an option in the long term. He said in the Pauw programme: I do not rule out ever closing the borders. When will that point be reached for the Secretary of State? When will that become a serious option?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u32	I don't rule out that kind of thing. I have also said this in the context of the questions about how I look at the European stage. Plan A is not to close the Dutch borders, with perhaps shortly after the relief that it will be difficult to enter and apply for asylum rather quickly the disappointment that we are getting very close to ourselves when it comes to our society, our economy and what we can do with its fruits. I also said that because I was not optimistic at the time that we were able to find a solution in Europe that is not just about redistributing one another, but also about how much there really is to divide and how you see it in advance. Otherwise, I understand that in many countries people are wondering: what are we going to do? I was also not optimistic at the time about the willingness of other European countries to look outside Europe and make agreements with countries like Turkey: if you ensure that not so many people come to Europe, then we can contribute to the reception in Turkey and in the region. I'm a little more positive about that last part now. At least on Sunday at the summit there are discussions that were not anticipated at the time. I would prefer to have European joint solutions with the region before we have to scale down completely to something that also affects us very much. I prefer to deal with measures that are less detrimental to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u33	The Telder Foundation, the Scientific Bureau of the VVD, says that the Foreign Affairs Convention does not apply, because these asylum seekers come through a series of safe countries. If you use that thought, the problem is solved and one can go back to safe areas in one's own region. Is the Secretary of State finally prepared to use that thought of his own scientific agency? I think it's a good thought myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u34	That is also the cabinet policy that we have set out. The extreme point on the horizon, in order to use that term, is that because we share responsibility for reception in the region and can therefore also guarantee that the refugee treaty is complied with in that reception in the region, we people who spontaneously come to the Netherlands no longer have to offer asylum here, but in the region. This is the aim of the cabinet. In addition, we have intermediate variants and growth models, but this is the ultimate goal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u35	Mr. Sjoerdsma. No? Sorry, I thought you wanted to ask another question. I give the floor to the Secretary of State for the continuation of his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u36	I come now to the block where I have actually already come per question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u37	Oh, yeah! I thought I'd see it in you, Mr. Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u38	Yes, Mr. Chairman. You had a forward-looking outlook at the moment. Indeed, before the Secretary of State goes to another block, I would like to comment on the Secretary of State who says that we are all going to make an improvisational solution around the COA, that everything is going to be okay and that we do not have to worry about it. Is the 60 million enough for the IND? I ask this because the Secretary of State himself writes that it is intended not to increase the waiting time further.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u39	It'll be enough for now. It is also sufficient to allow the investments we have made in recent years to continue to be effective in several instalments. We do not want to let these extra-accepted people go home in a few months, because we do not know yet, and then have to work in new people later. No one wants that. We did this so we don't have to. That's not gonna be in any danger. If the question has to be answered if there is any point in hiring more people, you will also come to the question of quality. It's also the influx. If it's less than 58,000, you can walk into time. Is this equal or higher, you can't. This also has to do with quality. The relationship between experienced and relatively new people at the IND is already one-on-one. Even if I hire a hundred people, I've seen this over the last few months, and that leads to a drop in capacity, because you have to get people involved. You can't take a decision-maker's degree at the university. In addition, you also have to guarantee quality from day to day through a good mix of experienced staff and relatively newly recruited staff. We are also discussing measures within the procedures with the IND. Mr Sjoerdsma himself has already asked for the procedures to be speeded up, for example for people who are almost able to hear from the voice that they are not going to receive asylum. We are looking with the IND at how we can do this smarter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u40	I have to conclude, however, that these additional funds for the IND are not going to reduce this clot in the pre-trial period, even more so, which is going to increase. The Secretary of State writes this himself. This means that the costs of reception will also increase. People will be in the shelter longer. Does the Secretary of State wish to reconsider once more whether the 60 million for the IND is really sufficient to remove the clot in the shelter as quickly as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u41	It's kind of different. If the IND were to produce even more, we can see that even now the work-in paths are over, and the IND production is increasing, the prop is increasing in size. The clot isn't...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u42	On the other side.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u43	Yeah, but there's no gag for that. Whether people with a status or waiting for treatment cannot go to a municipality, I have no extra cost. In theory, the clot may arise at the moment when the municipalities are not only present, but also the delays in the job description have already eliminated about 17,000 already and then are on steam. If the municipality says "we have houses enough... this is not so.. but where are the licence holders?', Mr Sjoerdsma is right and lagging IND production would lead to higher costs for society. It's not right now. I also want to honour the care of the treatment and therefore look closely at the organisation. How quickly can you add to that and was the effect of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u44	I don't understand. The Secretary of State now says there's a problem at the back. If we get more production there, there will be a clot. Actually, there is, with 12,000 - 13,000 people in the azc.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u45	Mr Sjoerdsma, you are taking advantage of the change of President. This is your third term interruption, so you make her short and then we'll shut her down.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u46	I'll make it brief and clear. Why does the Secretary of State say that more people will not be at the expense of the Dutch taxpayer before the procedure? I don't understand. These are also costs for Dutch society, and these are the result of the procedure that lasts longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u47	Let me try to make it as practical as possible. You've been waiting six months for your procedure. After that, you're still in the process for a few months, and then you could go to a municipality. You can't do this, and that's where you've been waiting eight months. If the first part of the trajectory is accelerated, you're only three months in anticipation of your procedure. Then the procedure lasts a few months and you are waiting a total of eleven months for your new home, but then there is no new home. So you're under my COA for a long time. And really, believe me: I have a lot or almost everything attached to it. I'm still negotiating with the municipalities to get that clot out, but it's at the back. We now see this clot growing every week because the IND gives more people clarity about their status and permits more people than people who already had a permit go to a municipality for housing. I'll be on block two, the hotspots. Questions have also been asked about the European part. The hotspots I mentioned in a conversation with a European Commissioner are the "not so hotspots," because how long can you call something hotspot, when they are not there yet? There is one fully functioning hotspot in Italy. There's the famous winter dip. You don't have a high influx there right now, but where the influx is still high, there are no functioning hotspots yet. Most of them are in Greece. This also means that in the first instance the Commission is very much in favour, but also the Netherlands, of watching with these countries and contributing to this. The Chamber has also seen in my letter that we are making an excessive effort in the field of Frontex to ensure that it gets off the ground, that people are registered and identified as soon as possible, and that we know who is in Europe as soon as possible. Eventually, these hotspots have to stop people from traveling. Especially when it is found that there is a small chance of obtaining an asylum permit, it is intended that they will eventually be returned from there. Sending back can be faster if there is a safe country list. Mr Azmani and Mrs Keijzer both had questions about extending that list. Mr Azmani mentioned a number of countries. I will take those countries but also others with me in the exploration I had already promised. I would almost say that if he wants more countries to be investigated, then we need to change them. But I can't just put a country on the list. First of all, we need to look at what is going on with this kind of reverse message of office and whether it really fits in with that list. Mrs Keijzer asked: compare it with the safe country lists of other European Member States. I will report to the Court this year what the findings are and whether they lead to countries being added to the list. Then I come to the block of shelter, which we have already exchanged a part of in the interruptions. I would like to come back to Mr Voordewind's questions about the 'plan' that the cabinet would have to put people out on the street. Let's be clear: it's not a plan. There is no intention by which we say: "One day we simply no longer want to arrange shelter. Then it just stops. We just give young men money. They'll figure it out." That's not a plan. The intention is also to ensure that this never happens. A few months ago, I explained in a meeting what we would do and also asked: what do we do if it does not work? I always have a plan B, C and D. This is behind something. That wasn't communicated by us either. It is always annoying when that appears somewhere in one piece, but it is wise that we focus all our energy on ensuring that we have enough shelter, and that we also think about the day when it does not work, which has already happened in all the European countries that are dealing with high influx. What do you do? Are you gonna freak out? Or do you have anything else? It also strengthens you in plan A when you see that the alternatives are particularly unattractive. There's no one waiting for people to wander. Really in extreme need, the question is: do we say 'well, sorry' to the people who happen to come in or do we allow others to be replaced by vulnerable women and families? That's the way you look at it. That's not a plan. The development of this scenario strengthens us in our efforts to never let it come to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u48	It's clear what the Secretary of State says. So it wasn't quite out of the sky. It was a scenario B, C or D. Let's hope that there will soon be enough money in the Autumn note, including the COA, to finance that. But I have one more question on the written answer. In it, the Secretary of State says something about the reception conditions. Then he's talking about pavilions and tents. Those pavilions are still reasonably winter ready with heating et cetera. But it shouldn't be the Secretary of State's starting point for people to sit in a tent in the frost.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u49	No, that's not a starting point either. It is only in popular terms that these terms sometimes get mixed up. These pavilions are called pavilion tents. You also have more container-like things that they call pavilions. For the sake of clarity: for example at Heumensoord we have pavilions or pavilion tents. This also applies: they are not plans. We don't think at some point we're gonna scale down. It's not him that the COA thinks: we're at the end of our money. Mr Voordewind should see it more as: what are we doing on the dreaded day that all the municipalities say no? Also to tents and pavilions municipalities have to say yes, because I don't have a piece of the Netherlands that is not part of a municipality. So there is no plan to soon set up tents that are under the pavilion complexes that we have, and to let people spend the winter in them. However, we see that it is not always easy for a municipality to cooperate, with all due respect for local democracy, of course. Since pointing out is also not popular, you should start thinking, and all these scenarios strengthen us in the idea of staying out with municipalities and also ensuring that the influx across Europe is limited.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u50	That is something other than what is stated in the written reply. The Secretary of State is now saying that's a relapse option. The written reply states: "For the time being, tents and pavilions will remain a necessary part of the accommodation facilities." So he is not talking about a situation that is likely to happen, but about something that is currently happening. Then I'll take a look at the winter that's about to come. I suppose the Secretary of State doesn't want us to leave people in tents in December while it's freezing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u51	Definitely not. But what we have so far is winterable. It's going to be a bit of a semantic discussion: we always call it pavilions, but, as I said before, they're pavilion tents. It has a roof of sail and it has sturdy walls. Assuming I'm a normal person: I'm thinking about something with a sail with herrings in the ground. There's no provision for putting people in there right now. Many questions have been asked about creating peace in the system of care through an end to crisis relief and clarity for the municipalities. That's what the conversations we're having with the municipalities are about. On the one hand, it is about the crisis relief that we have had. That €40 is not the maximum and is not what the COA lost. That amount was more meant to let municipalities know right away that we are not going to do it without compensation. This has not been sufficient in all cases, to put it euphemistically. So we are now in good consultation with the municipalities on how to resolve this properly. The conclusion has not yet been drawn, but the Chamber also knows the municipalities: they do not make agreements with the Empire that they find undersized. I am therefore confident that we will get there and that the Chamber will agree with that. In addition, we are making agreements to ensure that we know what we are going to do and what can come to us. We must ensure that we have better alternatives to day-to-day crisis response for the future, when things suddenly turn out this way. We also want to make agreements with municipalities. They are very willing to make commitments in terms of numbers that they will have to achieve in the short time of the rest of the year and next year. This must finally put an end to the crisis response and replace it with better reception facilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u52	Mrs Gesthuizen has a question on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u53	A quick question. Is the Secretary of State now negotiating with the VNG, with the municipalities, on the increase of the €40, or is he saying: we're just going to see how much is needed; municipalities shouldn't of course get it all wrong, but they just get reimbursed for the costs that need to be incurred?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u54	We're talking to the VNG about more than this. This is one of the topics on the table. It is not the most complicated subject; we come out nicely. It will not be €45, because then the VNG will not be able to convince its members. There's a conference on Monday, so they'll get it back soon. So that's part of it. Much more important to me is the agreement on flow and housing, but on this part we just come out and a municipality will not be left with the big bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u55	Not with a big account, but maybe with a small account?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u56	What municipalities report to have lost, varies a lot. The municipalities at the top say it costs their €120 per night. Grosso mode is now talking about €100 per night. There's an average in that. I think the VNG is very good at negotiating. Next, a comment on small-scale reception. It is said so much in the media that I, perhaps a little unorthodox, tell the MPs that if they hear that the COA is refusing reception, they should simply report it to me. Very often we hear that the COA refuses and then we dive into it. I always think: that's good, because then all I have to do is call my own people and say that it's obviously up to them and if that place gets fixed, we'll have another couple hundred beds. Often, however, the practice is slightly different. In order to avoid the picture that it is always up to the COA, I would ask the Members of Parliament to let us know if they are confronted with such a case. We'll dive in. The COA is not here to reject numerical matters. I have said before that we also get the offer to pay for a location of 600 places and to use only 100 places. If we only have to pay for 100, we can still consider it, but if we have to pay for more, it really gets out of hand. The COA already uses small-scale locations, also temporarily, for example in Gulpen, Velp and Ootmarsum. Those are just a few examples. I made good deals with that. It always depends on the case, but the picture is not correct that small-scale reception is refused. We are certainly open to this, but I would add that the sum will have to be right. A specific question has been asked about children in crisis or emergency care. I cannot guarantee at the moment, given the pressure that children do not end up in crisis care, but I have agreed with the COA that families with children and single minors have priority when placing them in regular care and emergency care. In addition, the COA is working on a plan to put single children not in emergency care, but immediately into a suitable regular care facility. In addition, questions have been asked about the security of care, in particular for vulnerable groups such as lbt's and religious or ethnic minorities. How do we deal with that? Mr Marcouch asked whether it was clear what the rules of living are in the shelter. There are rules of living in an azc. Those rules are made clear. You have to sign for that, too. You are in the Netherlands and here the Dutch standards and values apply. The line is to file a report in the event of real incidents, in violation of the law, and to transfer the perpetrators of the incident. As one could read yesterday in the letter, it is not merely a declaration; I also have a more severe consequence of being convicted. It has gone from 18 to six months, for refugees it has gone from 24 to ten months. The message also comes from this: if you do not respect our values, break the law and are sentenced by the judge to a severe sentence, you can forget about your asylum permit.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u57	I shall come back to the previous point. Last Tuesday, a motion by GroenLinks and the Christian Union on preventing the placement of families and single children in crisis care was adopted. The Secretary of State quickly said that he could not do so for the time being, but it was a wish of the majority of the Chamber. When we were in the Netherlands, I saw for myself that the families were first received there, that they then had to go to Ter Apel to register and that they then had to go back. Meanwhile, the children had three or four schools in a few weeks. Surely we shouldn't have that kind of bullshit with kids who just come from traumatic areas? Have the IND register mobile, especially when it comes to families, so that the children do not always have to go to another school, but can stay at the same school. Some girls don't know who they'll have in their class the next day.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u58	I didn't say I'm not gonna do it yet. I just said that I cannot guarantee that no family will be found in all the crisis shelters in the Netherlands. That's the difference. We're working on it. In my opinion, I am carrying out this motion. I understand what Mr Voordewind said about dragging children and families. Of course we have the conversations and the registration. Logistics seems more likely to bring the IND to the people, but then we also need an interpreter and a lawyer. Also, it has to be faster, but if the IND loses three times as much time per case, the waiting times rise again. We must therefore continue to look smartly at the logistical tensions. We strive for as few relocations as possible, especially for families, to keep education intact, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u59	Mr Voordewind, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u60	I would like to urge the Secretary of State to see if the IND itself could go to locations, especially to locations where many families are sitting, precisely to avoid the extra movement back and forth. That's something I've picked up on my visits to the various crisis locations, including in Orange. It is a great wish, because it would be much more enjoyable for the children. So I'll give it to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u61	I have another question about the safety of IBTs at COA locations. I understand, of course, that the Secretary of State is doing everything in his power to ensure that it is safe and that incidents are not accepted. In the last week, however, I spoke to refugees who said that we fled an intolerant situation, but then we ended up in the same intolerance at the COA location. I've been to some of those locations myself. If you walk in, you will not be received with the message: we deal with each other here, gay rights are achievements in the Netherlands that we do not dispute and people here can be free and safe themselves. So I would like to show the Secretary of State, in addition to the normative aspect, the reality outside. I'm asking him to do something about that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u62	If Mr Marcouch walks into it, they will not push him under his nose with the words: if you want to stay here, you have to endorse this. That agreement contains the texts on non-discrimination. Apart from that, I think it should be remembered more often than at that time alone. So I'll pick up this signal. We had campaigns once. I'll see if they're still suitable or make an update. I am going to see how we can continue to bring to the attention of the public of freedoms and non-discrimination in such a place.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u63	The Netherlands internationally declares that homosexual rights are human rights. I would like us to do the same in such a centre, where people have not yet internalized what those rights are and what they mean in dealing with each other. If I'm going to land a COA, I wouldn't want to get my hands on a piece of paper, but I would like to see those VVD-like posters, which state what the norm is. Everyone, both those who are Ihbt and those who are not, is reminded every morning of how we live together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u64	I feel this is a challenge to use the knowledge from my once-fulfilled role of campaign leader from an unnamed party to bring these values to the attention of asylum seekers' centres. I'll take that challenge.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u65	In the written answer to my question on small-scale care, the Secretary of State replies that it is not easy to have small-scale care provided by the municipalities in a cost-efficient manner. I was wondering, does the Secretary of State feel that he can't do that? Or was there a quick scan or something from an investigation? We have seen this in the schools, for example. It was simply said that large-scale schools are more efficient. Five years later, however, it turned out that this was not the case. In my opinion, such a gut feeling is just as hard to make that many small-scale reception sites are at least as efficient.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u66	It is also the experience of the COA. It is also evident from the models we face in practice. We don't look at an offer of a small number of places if we can't. Our experience is simply that so far the reception of small numbers has been difficult to achieve in a still somewhat financially responsible way. Wherever we could, we've done it and we'll keep doing it. The COA itself goes to municipalities, just to not only have to wait and see every offer. If one works in a region or with a few municipalities in a number of smaller centres with a satellite for the facilities, it can work. You need medical supplies, you have the logistics operation, and you have activities. These are the things that Mrs Van Tongeren needs to think about, which means that we have a standard model of a certain scale. If you go smaller, you'll face challenges, but we're definitely open to it and the COA too. In practice, however, we have not yet found that we now have a whole mass of small-scale offers that can be properly adapted.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u67	I think we have small-scale and large-scale problems anyway. However, I asked where the justification came from. The Secretary of State just referred to previous experiences of the COA. Is it possible to get some insight into that? A chamber motion has been accepted. The Secretary of State says it's being tried, but it's not gonna happen right away. Can we have any idea why large-scale care would be more financially attractive? For the people themselves, small-scale care is of course much more pleasant and it is also much easier for the residents to accept small-scale care. I think the Secretary of State and I are in complete agreement on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u68	I'm not going into the business of the collective agreement. I'm also taking a little distance from the idea that we're not carrying out the motion. The motion does not say that we should never organise large-scale reception again. We also realize small-scale care and we are cooperating in it. However, if a municipality has a location where 600 people can be taken care of, I am not saying that we prefer to receive 200 people, because then it is small-scale. We're working on all the variants. The COA palette is much wider than before, when it comes to the size of the shelter. And over scale: compared to Heumensoord, where 3,000 people are taken, 600 is small again. It's a little tricky for the COA. In the years that we had a low influx, the scale was no problem: 600 was fine. Then I didn't get any motions about smaller-scale shelters. Now we have to house more people and also on a smaller scale. These are two challenges that are difficult to reconcile. It will not lead to small-scale care alone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u69	Mr Voordewind, please be brief. I would ask the Members of Parliament in general to keep the interruptions shorter. The President must also chair a budget debate this evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u70	And so am I. I referred to the fact that Mr Marcouch touched a sensitive chord with the Secretary of State when he was talking about campaigning. If he does think about the subject Ihbt, great support. I saw a whole series of Mr. Marcouch. You can create these kind of posters for multiple themes. I encourage the Secretary of State to include respect for non-believers in the campaign.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u71	I think you're being served at your beck and call.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u72	As a liberal, I am committed to all freedoms and non-discrimination. It's not limited to one variant. I come to crime and asylum and yesterday's letter. The Netherlands must make it clear where the standard is. We must also make it clear that we do not grant a person an asylum permit if he is sentenced by the judge and is punished for six months. Even if this is added up several times in a row, we can say that this leads to refusal of asylum. Yesterday I was asked how often I think this is going to happen. I hope, of course, that it will lead to compliance with standards and not breaking the law. That should be the greatest effect. However, if necessary, we will not shy away from using this medicine. Mr Azmani said that there is a category that has not yet been resolved. The cabinet's starting point is that criminal aliens will be expelled as soon as possible if they have served their sentence. The refusal of asylum in criminal asylum seekers is included. If there's room for improvement, I'll look into it. I take Mr Azmani's signal very seriously. He says that Article 21 (4) of the Aliens Act is an obstacle to tackling serious criminal foreigners who have long been resident in the Netherlands but have not been naturalised. If that's true, that is indeed a gap. I would like to make it clear to the House that it is desirable and feasible to remove the protection against the cessation of residence which this group would enjoy. If the protection is unjustified, I will propose appropriate measures to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u73	If this is the end of the safety block, I have a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u74	Apparently. This section dealt with reception by Europe and redistribution of third countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u75	I have a question about safety. The Secretary of State has always said that it is unlikely that terrorists will hitchhike the flow of refugees. How does the Secretary of State look back that at least two of the perpetrators of the atrocious attacks in Paris entered Europe in this way? Does the Secretary of State recognize that he underestimated the case very much?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u76	I always said I can't rule it out. That was always my first sentence. People who know about it sometimes even said that it makes it look like I'm saying it happens every day. But I just can't rule it out. It's very possible that people do that. That is why we screen and need to be screened not only in the Netherlands, but also at the first point of entry into Greece much better. If the Greeks do not take it on their own, we must help them to say it euphemistically. It's hard to tell whether it's certain or not, but it does look like it is, and the picture already exists that two people have traveled along that route. This strengthens me in the belief that it cannot be ruled out, if indeed it has happened, and that screening in Greece is of the utmost importance for all European countries to find out as soon as possible who wants to enter and to intervene as quickly as possible on any wrong elements.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u77	The Secretary of State said it's unlikely it's gonna happen. Now it's happened. It would help if the Secretary of State were honest and said that he had indeed misjudged it and that the situation was much more serious and serious than thought. Now it's about preventing this. The Secretary of State says we need to know who's coming in, who's people, and we need to screen. But that's not what's gonna happen. The answers to the written questions show that almost 12,000 people have entered the Netherlands, of whom this Secretary of State does not know who they are, because they have no passport or papers. They could be terrorists. That could be anyone who's got something to hide. Why is the Secretary of State continuing to let all these people in?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u78	Mr Fritsma first claims that I said something I did not say and then says that I am not honest about it. I said it's not the most likely route. That means it's possible. However, most have chosen a different route. That doesn't matter anyway, because one is already too much. That is why not only in the Netherlands there is a need for proper screening, but also in Greece. In addition, we should not have paperwork, which is not a new phenomenon, and not confuse screening. Mr Fritsma would not be happy to go back to his bench if I said I would not have to screen people if they showed their papers. After all, we know that paper can be tampered with and that sometimes there are three passports in circulation of the same person. So we need to look very closely at who people are, whether they have papers or not, and what their backgrounds are. So with people who don't have papers, you're gonna have to do more research into their identity. The IND's been doing that for years. That's not a new phenomenon. Let us not confuse that with the temporary problem, which we have now fortunately mastered, of the people who had not been screened. Well, that's run-in now. That's two loose cases. Even if someone does have a passport, I don't assume he's the one in there. We'll screen it and check it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u79	The Secretary of State proposes to allow the taking of the residence permit in the event of punishment. First, it was an 18-month sentence, and now it should be six months. How often has a residence permit been taken in the last 12 months as a result of a crime committed?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u80	I don't have a record of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u81	I would like those figures because, of course, there must be a reason for the measure advocated by the Secretary of State. I'm also asking because of the crimes mentioned by the Secretary of State. I'll pick one out, even if I could have picked out more than one, which is assault with serious injuries. Article 141 (2) (2) of the Code of Criminal Law already contains a maximum sentence of nine years. I wonder whether the reduction that the Secretary of State wants to make is actually related to the examples he mentions. I don't think so. Perhaps the Secretary of State could explain that a little better, otherwise it might look a little like moody.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u82	At what time do you ask for these figures from the Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u83	For the second term, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u84	But this is the continuation of the debate, as I understand it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u85	That's right, I'm not gonna make it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u86	Then let's do it like this. I would like to hear what is going on here in the second term in reply to the Secretary of State. How often has the residence permit been taken as a result of a crime in the last 12 months? I would have expected the Secretary of State to have known, because of course he is not taking this measure for nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u87	We're not going to have that discussion again. This was purely a question of fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u88	I'm glad I get a chance to explain this, because I wouldn't like it if there was a wrong picture. There is indeed a link between the examples and the threshold for withdrawal. I do not, of course, base this on the maximum penalty limit, but on the guidelines that the judiciary has for the penalties to be imposed when committing a crime. There is a nice overview of these guidelines. In the case of an article of law, it says "the ten-month directive" or "the six-month directive." That is the link between the examples and the chosen standards. If you assume the maximum, you sell a little tubers for lemons, because then you could say nine years. The judges themselves say: this crime has an average of six months. If there are mitigating circumstances or aggravating circumstances, this may vary. Whether revocation takes place will ultimately depend on the judge's judgement and on the punishment he imposes, unconditional or irrevocable. I thought that was the purest thing to do. Therefore, these limits are lower than the penalty limit you see in the Code of Criminal Law. I will see what numbers we can provide and whether we have recorded this. We know it per individual, but the system doesn't allow you to bring all these individual things together straightaway. Mr Fritsma mentioned that yesterday. That is why we are also improving the systems. It is, of course, also relevant to see how many people have not been refused asylum because they have been punished for 12 months and the border was higher. That makes the assignment more difficult. However, this discussion also arose from its standard-setting nature. I actually want it to lead people all to abide by the law so that I don't need this instrument. That is why it is good to set that standard. When the Chamber asked, I looked at what the norm was. On second thought, I felt that the bar had been set very unrealistically.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u89	Mr Sjoerdsma asked for a response before or during the second-term response. Let me give you another chance to respond to the deadline.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u90	That term is half an hour, but that's optimistic, or two hours. We're gonna do our best, but I don't know if those numbers can be taken out of the system.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u91	Otherwise, you will inform the Chamber as soon as possible afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u92	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u93	I am, of course, concerned about the influx of asylum seekers, especially the fighters or the jihadists of IS who may be among them. The government, and of course the Secretary of State, are heavily committed to border surveillance in Greece. However, North Africa is also a major risk, as is the influx via Lampedusa. How is the Secretary of State going to stop this influx and the IS terrorists coming from there? After all, that power is still there. It is mainly about total immigration or asylum influx. If you guard the border near Greece, you can't let people all in through Lampedusa, because that's where you can also apply for asylum. Eventually you won't solve anything, because then everyone will choose that route. This concerns, in particular, terrorism and danger. How's the Secretary of State gonna fix that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u94	Mr Bontes is right: an agreement with Turkey and a better registration in Greece are not the end. That would be quite a step, but also a first. The registration on Lampedusa and in Italy I didn't mention here because things are getting better with the development of the hotspots. After intelligence reports, Italy also took someone off the boat because there were suspicions. Let me put it this way: Greece has more to do than Italy. In Italy, therefore, that process is under way. And we're doing this, too. An agreement such as that with Turkey on reception in the region there would be the beginning of a model for many more agreements for me. I have just indicated that the cabinet prefers that the European Union should make agreements with all countries in regions where there are fireplaces, to contribute to and take responsibility for the reception there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u95	That's one part. If you want to do that effectively, as apparently with the border of Greece, then you will also have to send back all the boats that attempt to cross. We can't use Frontex as a pilot service and drag them all to Lampedusa, can we? Is the Secretary of State prepared to commit to this in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u96	The spring cabinet letter is clear on this. The Cabinet believes you should make appointments. When people get on a crappy boat, they risk their lives and you have to save their lives, it makes sense to get them off the boat as soon as possible, as close as possible to the shore of departure. And you have to get them back to where they left as soon as possible; there they are again on safe ground. I think we'll be able to agree on that soon. But then comes the practice, in which we have to make agreements with such a country to take those people back. We'll bet on that now, but it hasn't been realized yet. Let the agreements with Turkey succeed first and let them be a good example for follow-up agreements. Mr Fritsma had a series of questions yesterday. It was about ageing policy, about the economy, about whether refugees were an enrichment. He kept saying, "Is that even true?" Let me say first of all that asylum or migration is in principle no good for anyone, not for the asylum seeker who has to flee war and violence. If it is someone who does not have to run from it, then that fact should lead to a rejection. In such a case, if someone tries to get in illegally, it's not good for anyone either. The cabinet has only one motive for asylum policy, and that is humanitarian. If people are genuine refugees and have status here on humanitarian grounds, we must also allow them to contribute to society as soon as possible, if they are able to do so. The fact that it would work against the ageing population is not a motive for our asylum policy. Mr Fritsma did not hear the cabinet say that either. The fact that refugees would enrich the economy is not an argument that we would use. After all, we have the costs anyway. We have to pay for it, so that doesn't make us any better. We are fulfilling our humanitarian duty. Whether refugees with status make an economic contribution will depend on the individual: one does, the other does not. On balance, we are not counting on an economic impact of asylum. There is no economic motive to pursue asylum policy; that is purely humanitarian. Not asylum policy, but regular migration can have a positive impact on the economy. This can be attractive for start-ups, for knowledge workers, because people can have specific knowledge and skills that our economy needs. That route is separate from asylum. Asylum is humanitarian and if there are people who can contribute well, let us enable them to do so. In other words, we do not think we can enter asylum.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u97	I understand the nature of the Dutch admission policy. But the Secretary of State can, for example, distance himself more strongly from the European Union, which always comes with the nonsense that immigration would be good for the economy and against the ageing population. My question was more focused on the fact that the Secretary of State is really cutting it down in meetings in Brussels, or anywhere else. We know the pieces that come from Brussels. There is even a directive to transfer seasonal workers from outside Europe. There is such a madness in Brussels that it is thought to help the economy. I'm gonna ask the Secretary of State if he can't just get his ass kicked.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u98	I can perform my function well and in reasonable rest because I am not going to respond to everything I think is nonsense and to make it worthless. There may be creative minds in Brussels, with plans and all kinds of reservations. If someone with an economic motive is going to propose to allow asylum seekers unlimited, the Netherlands will not go along with that. I'm gonna give it to you right now, too. We'll measure the effect afterwards. It is not a motive and I will not say to anyone that we are pursuing asylum policy here because it is so good for our economy. You have to be reasonable about that. If many people are going to find a job, this could have been a positive contribution, but then we could have done so without asylum influx through the knowledge migration schemes that are very targeted. If it is, make the best of it, but no motive. For example, the unilateral closing of borders has an economic negative effect. We will always have to weigh that down, but the humanitarian argument remains at the forefront, preferably in the region when it comes to reception.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u99	Mr Fritsma, you don't have to, but you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u100	One more follow-up question, though. The cabinet does comply with all these strange rules from Brussels. Brussels always comes up with nonsense, but I would like to mention, for example, the possibility of bringing in seasonal workers from outside Europe. Surely the cabinet should take a much stronger distance from that rather than simply nod "yes" on everything that is happening in Brussels?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u101	I always like it when we don't do something, don't have to do it, or just make sure that a rule isn't adopted. Then I don't have to stomp my feet either, because that's usually a sign that you make a lot of noise while it doesn't manage to achieve anything. As long as we do not do all that, and not as Europe states that we are pursuing an asylum policy in relation to the economy, it is clear. There is one other issue that does not concern migration, and that is Mr Bontes' question about lifelong learning. Is life in prison now or does there have to be a view? The problem is that the Court of Justice in Strasbourg has declared that life can only exist for life if there is still some prospect. That is what we have in the Netherlands, and it is called pardon. Let me say, apart from discussions on whether a word is a word, above all, that it is my aim to secure as long as possible those who commit atrocious crimes. The remedy for this must be adjusted, for example, when you see last week's case. The judges have said that they will no longer impose a life sentence if lifelong and pardon policies are not changed. On paper, the Dutch lifelong policy is very tough, but it is never applied. On balance, those who could have had a life sentence with a temporary sentence are shorter than I would have liked. That is why I have also said to the Chamber that I want to see the objective of keeping people as long as possible achieved in practice. I'm going to see if there's any possibility of not taking life away, but of taking reality into account. I want to ensure that, not only on paper for life, people are detained for as long as possible, but also imposed by the judge, so that it actually happens.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u102	Indeed, the objective must indeed be to keep as long as possible the perpetrators of atrocious crimes locked up. We agree. However, we are now at risk, as happened yesterday, that two murderers who have committed three horrific murders will get away with 30 years. It is true that there are TBs and also conditional release, but the victims' families have been sentenced to life imprisonment. I'm really worried about that. We have to do everything we can to stop that. Didn't the judge sit here in the chair of politics? He says the rules are too restrictive and that's why he's pushing them up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u103	The judge will decide what punishment he imposes. It was 30 years old. With the measures mentioned by Mr Bontes, the judge has given an insight into the reasons. He did not do that either, because there are also judgments and judgments of the European Court of Justice. He is doing this because life as it is today would violate the European Convention on Human Rights. That can be called service, but the judge did not sit on the seat of politics, because the sentence of the sentence is reserved for him. In doing so, he expressed some discomfort that lifelong might also have been an option for him to impose, if it were not for the current design of lifelong life as a human right problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u104	Mr Bontes, a brief follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u105	This is going to be such a difficult problem, because, of course, that judge can pronounce for life, but he does not do so because the rules relating to pardon seem to be inadequate. Thus, the judge gives an interpretation of rules that are not there yet. I actually think that's the world upside down.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u106	Those rules are there. Let me put it simply. You make one of those arrangements where you have life and grace. In the end, pardon as we have shaped it will be granted to the ruler. For the first 30 years, you won't notice. Then the system can just be its course, because for the first 30 years you have no pardons. First, a person must be sentenced to life imprisonment, who then has to sit down long enough to allow the judge to judge whether grace works. The judge says, in practice, that pardon is never granted. I must also honestly say that I haven't seen a case before me that I thought was actually quite nice and it wasn't that bad what he did. That person has a life sentence for a reason. So the judge says and says the European Court at some point: life as a punishment, but there must always be some perspective, more than a theoretical perspective that we see is never used. I wouldn't have minded if that statement hadn't been made; I'm honest about that. Anyway, the rule of law works, we have a constant feed back and the judge said yesterday, apart from the question of how final that is, but it is a signal: if you continue to organise for life as it is, it will lead to people in practice not to be sentenced for life but to a temporary prison sentence. I find that a worrying signal. I want to keep as much as possible that life is an instrument, not just a dead letter in the Code of Conduct, but an instrument used by judges to hold on to people who have committed serious crimes for as long as possible. If it is necessary that I make a reasonable proposal to the Chamber to make the system that we have Strasbourgproof, so that life is imposed and so that people are stuck for a very long time, then I will make that proposal to the Chamber. I'm looking into those possibilities right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u107	Let me say first of all that I am incredibly happy with the remark that the Secretary of State has just made, that I would like to translate it as freely as possible criminal killers who have to be put away for as long as possible in time to commit such horrible and serious crimes. That is why the sentence should be a life sentence in the Netherlands as far as the VVD is concerned. The Secretary of State has indicated that he will come with a letter to the Chamber on this subject. I want him to promise that he will take up the idea that this letter will also arm us against judges who do not, however, pronounce a life sentence because they believe that there will be no prospect of release. Then I say: increase the penalty for manslaughter, increase the penalty for murder, and therefore delay the time when you can submit your pardon in the event of life imprisonment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u108	I can promise that proposals, if I come up with them, will in any case be sufficient to meet the concerns, to restore life in practice and to make human rights proof, so that that punishment can be properly imposed. Unless I became a judge, but then I could only make it for my own judgments, and then I wouldn't even be able to agree to it. I cannot commit to what judges are going to do, but I agree with Mr van Oosten that an adjustment must be made to ensure that lifelong life, while minimising its hardness, is viable so that that punishment can be imposed. We'll be creative in thinking. I will have the Chamber read the fruits in the first quarter and hopefully just after the turn of the year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u109	The Secretary of State continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u110	Mr. Chairman. As far as I'm concerned, this was the end of the cubes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u111	The Secretary of State came to the end of the reply. Finally, I see that Mr Sjoerdsma has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u112	I have a question that I didn't know very well which block it could be placed in. The Council of State has delivered its opinion today, and I see the Secretary of State laughing; I am not going to bring up bed-bath bread about the Dublin transfer to Hungary. I have previously tabled a motion requesting the Secretary of State to reconsider those Dublin transfers. The Council of State has now said: State Secretary, reconsider, for there are reasonable doubts that the ECHR is being violated. What is the reaction of the Secretary of State to this ruling?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u113	That we are going to study them and that we will abide by them. You've seen me sitting here; I haven't studied him. In all cases, we will respect the ruling of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u114	Thank you. Perhaps once the ruling has been studied and the cabinet has decided how to deal with it, the Secretary of State can briefly inform us in writing what the new position is?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u115	It's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u116	I have not heard from the Secretary of State about the possibilities of restricting entry or to ensure that people looking for security can have temporary status for longer. Those are ways of trying to make the influx manageable. Wouldn't the Secretary of State want to reflect on that? Given the influx of people, we're gonna have to do something. This isn't how we're gonna hold out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u117	Mrs Keijzer certainly has a point. That is why I have given a great deal of thought to the ambition of the cabinet to ensure that the influx is further reduced. This ambition lies in many areas. For example, it wants to make agreements with countries in the region, such as Turkey. That top Sunday isn't for nothing. In other ways, too, the cabinet wants to ensure that eventually reception in the region is the norm and the European countries themselves decide the number of people we transfer through resettlement. That's where we want to go eventually. Mrs Keijzer also had questions about the Refugee Convention. The cabinet is pragmatic in that. If there is a solution on the table that we can all find, that we need to adapt the Treaty, then that is not taboo. But it is not an end in itself to change the treaty first and then practice. We want a practical solution that works. Then we'll see if that requires treaty change. That is not a taboo in advance. I informed Mr Van der Staaij in a letter last night about temporary status. There's pros and cons to that. That is a trade-off that may require a little more thought than is possible in a few minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u118	This cannot be done here in a few minutes, but can I expect the cabinet to take a little more initiative and ambition to do something about it? Now, when they come here, people get a fixed-term status, but at some point they can stay here. Given the number of people, we're not gonna keep it up like this. Sybrand Buma has managed to persuade the national leaders of the political groups that are part of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats to call the Refugee Treaty into question. The Prime Minister laughed at that. I'm gonna keep going, Mr. Chairman, because I barely interrupted today. The Prime Minister said he'd bring it up informally. Can I hear the Secretary of State say that he agrees that something needs to be done in this area too and that he is going to raise it with his colleagues in Europe?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u119	My European colleagues will not recognize the image that we would be too passive. I think they say sometimes: stop with new ideas. Mrs Keijzer may still think that we are doing too little, but in the perspective of the rest we are not. If Mrs Keijzer thinks that we are doing too little, she should encourage her colleagues in those other countries, because they are doing even less. We want practical solutions. If you have a reasonable solution and the Refugee Convention gets in the way, you have to change the treaty. That is the result of a solution on which there is agreement. We are taking many initiatives to discuss various scenarios with colleagues from other countries. Plan A is making agreements with countries in the region. If that does not work, how do we proceed to ensure that we are not dealing year after year with an ever-growing influx? 'Cause that wouldn't work, of course. That is not possible in the Netherlands either. In my opinion, the plans of the cabinet, in which you go to reception in the region and go to get asylum only on invitation through resettlement, are quite far-reaching. It was quite a job to support the European colleagues and I am glad that they succeeded. If the Treaty needs to be amended in its elaboration, then you must do so. I am also very pleased with the work that Mr Buma has done in his PPE-DE to get his hands on it at political level. For example, as Dutch politicians, we are working on this kind of solution from all sides, which ultimately has to ensure that the influx into the Netherlands falls significantly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u120	The Secretary of State already referred to the point on which a separate letter was sent, for which thanks. This raises the question of whether you can move the deadline for an indefinite residence permit from five to seven years, so that it is more possible to allow people to return when the situation in the country of origin has improved. The letter states that there are major advantages, but also disadvantages, especially procedural ones. Would it not be possible to take advantage of the advantages, namely the incentive for faster integration and sufficient economic independence, while at the same time counteracting the disadvantages by shaping it in such a way that it cannot lead to procedural accumulation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u121	Have your cake and eat it too. This is a challenge that goes even further. I would be happy to consider it, if I may say so, but it is very much related to naturalisation legislation. The cabinet proposes to take that period from five to seven years. If this legislation is adopted in both chambers, there will be fewer disadvantages and more benefits in extending the temporary status from five to seven years. Otherwise, someone would naturalize after five years and that would be crooked. We also have the other European directive, which stands at five years. The more differences there are, the less the benefit of extending the five-to-seven period. If there are majorities for postponing naturalization from five to seven years, then this makes sense. Otherwise, you're going to create a patchwork blanket that will hold it in practice for five years, although we're going to set the period of residence in the law to seven years.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u122	I understand that practical argument. That is why I have just considered putting forward an amendment to the Naturalization Act. But then it comes back in there like a little weird duck in the bite. We have already received a note on this legislation on the basis of the report. That is why I would like to make a motion to ask the government to go from five to seven years. Should that motion be given a majority, it can be properly aligned with that other route.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u123	If that motion is passed, it would be obvious to take them together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u124	In the first term, I asked the Secretary of State about single minors and the time when they could apply for family reunification. These young people are usually 17 years old and sometimes they have to wait six months before they can submit that request. They are now 18 years old. The Secretary of State says he doesn't see the problem. He literally says: I see no reason to deviate from the procedure. It is precisely because we are now in the delay because of the large influx that it could be a reason to look at the time of entry.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u125	I do not see any reason for this, not because I do not see the problem, but because I am making a different political assessment of the solution. Let's just be honest about that. I do not think that we should relax the criteria for family reunification for people who are now of age. I just have a different political opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u126	Let's try to get together. These young people are only coming this way and it is, of course, possible to take them in priority, so that they do not have to wait six months. Maybe that's an intermediate solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u127	It is easy to say yes to that, but in practice we now have so many priority groups that it no longer works. Above all, I give priority to the people who improperly burden our system. I have therefore agreed with the Chamber that I will give priority to those people whose application is likely to lead to a rejection. I do that to prevent mayors from having to explain to people that there are Serbs and Albanians in the shelter. We must reject these people as soon as possible, so that they are as short as possible in our country and in our procedures.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u128	Mr President, at least my party, but I also think other parties need a suspension before we start the second period.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u129	A brief suspension. What are you thinking?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u130	15 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u131	Fifteen minutes? I see no one has any major objections to this. I would just like to conclude that the Secretary of State had come to the end of his reply in the first term. I shall do so and suspend the sitting until 4.15 p.m. Then we'll continue with the second term of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u132	I understand that Mr Sjoerdsma would like to make a request to Members.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u133	The groups of D66, the CDA and the SP would like to extend the suspension for another 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u134	I'll take a look at the colleagues. I do not see any major objections to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u135	I understand there's an additional request. Mr Pechtold, I am happy to give you the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u136	On behalf of a number of political groups, I would like to ask for an additional ten minutes for care to be taken to make our motions readable so that we can recite them properly immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u137	I believe that all groups have an interest in readable motions. I don't see any major problems with the colleagues. Thank you for the flexibility. I'll suspend immediately for another 15 minutes, so we don't get back here in ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u138	We have arrived at the Court's contribution in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u139	Mr. Chairman. Year in, year out, the opposition has warned that the budget of Security and Justice would become a hole cheese. In the General Reviews it was very clear that especially the opposition parties, but also the coalition parties indicated that it was not really enough. In the First Chamber it was actually repeated that more resources were needed for Security and Justice. Under pressure from the entire opposition, a letter came from the cabinet on Friday. Serious steps have been taken in this regard. Bad legislative proposals were swept off the table, for example the proposal to increase the Registry fees, which would restrict access to the law. For example, the proposal for an own contribution for detainees was also deleted. I think that is extremely good for the safety of the Netherlands. On three points, however, only half of the holes were filled. I call it the D.A.'s office. There is a great deal of work to be done, such as the ZSM approach, organised crime, the fight against undermining crime and so on. I can name a whole string of topics. There is always more work to be done, but less money. The case-law Council also has a broad desire to organise the case-law closely and to maintain the quality of the case-law. The police are having a very hard time with the reorganisation. The contour note has just been sent to the Chamber. I also mention the problems with ICT. Furthermore, we all want a good collective agreement for the police. There are a huge number of refugees coming to our country. The police also have a great deal to do with terrorist threats. That's why you shouldn't be cutting back on the police, you should be investing in it. We have all heard the Minister's contribution. He says: there are still a lot of conversations going on and we also have a lot of research to do. He says: I am prepared to look into this and, if necessary, come forward with an amended proposal to the Spring Paper. In situations like this, I always have to think of a statement from a SP alderman. He said: When the Lord handed out the patience, many SPs were flyers. I'm such a SP'er. However, my mother always said: patience is a good thing, Mrs Kooiman. So that's what I've got on this one. The opposition will table three motions today. One is about the police, one is about the prosecution and one is about the courts. These three motions are very important, at least for the SP Group. If they are not adopted, I will advise my group to vote against the budget for security and justice. That is what more groups will do. I'm filing a motion on the police. The D66 Group will table the motion on the Public Prosecutor's Office and the CDA Group will table the motion on the courts. I'm reading the motion on the police. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the National Police are faced with major financial challenges such as ICT problems, police cao and reorganisation costs;]] [[Whereas it is being examined whether additional resources are needed for the National Police;]] [[calls on the Government, in the spring note, to provide sufficient resources for the primary tasks of the police and to inform the Court separately,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Kooiman, Mr Pechtold, Mr Oskam, Mr Voordewind, Mr Van Tongeren and Mr Van der Staaij.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VI-28]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u140	I very much hope that the cabinet will embrace these three motions and be able to move on with this task. Before I close, I have a special concern: taking away criminal property. This was part of the letter sent to the Chamber by the Cabinet. The Minister said that the cabinet really wants to work on taking criminal money away from criminals. That is incredibly good, because that is something that the SP has been fighting for years, even when it comes to cooperation between the Tax Administration, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Public Administration. There are some points in that letter I will not repeat them all, which the Minister says he will invest in. There will also be more financial detectives, I read in the answers to my questions. That's good. Given the patience we have had to bear on this for a long time, I would very much like to be kept informed of its progress. It's important that we catch criminals where they need to be in their wallet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u141	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Secretary of State for his first reply; I did not ask the Minister any questions. In the light of the situation in the Netherlands and the situation in which we see ourselves, the challenges in the area of immigration and asylum, I must say that the Secretary of State is doing well at the moment, along with all the people who work for him in the various services. I know that things are going wrong in a number of areas and that things are not going smoothly everywhere. I am also sure that this will prove to be more frequent in the future. However, I think that the challenge facing the Secretary of State and the way in which he and the cabinet and the services are trying to manage everything is worth a compliment. I think I failed to say that in the first place. I'll say it on this one. I keep worrying about medical care. Since we are talking about so many things here in the budget, this seems to me to be something I will have to come back to during a general discussion. Especially when people are in crisis care, I worry if they are getting the right medical care at the right moments. I am pleased with the commitment to call it half a commitment in relation to the UNG and to the costs that municipalities have to bear for the crisis relief they offer. There are two other important points of criticism which I do not wish to leave unnamed. First of all, reception in the region. This is still a long-standing term that has been added here time and again as a solution to the refugee problem, which we see here in the Netherlands too. I have said a few times that there are more than 60 million refugees worldwide. These people aren't really welcome anywhere. When a country such as the Netherlands or a continent such as Europe starts to say 'we all like it and we all like it, but refugees must stay outside our territory', it lacks a very important part of the responsibility and role of example. Many refugees are coming to the Netherlands. However, it is not appropriate, during this period, to call into question the UN Convention, the biggest refugee crisis we have ever had in the world. Certainly not in comparison with what the region around Syria, for example, needs to do at the moment. Many millions of people need to be taken care of there. This also applies to many other countries around conflict zones, where many tens of thousands or hundreds of thousands of people seek refuge. I would therefore like to table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government's objective is to grant asylum to refugees from outside Europe only in the long term if they are invited to come to the Netherlands via the United Nations;]] [[considers that this objective is contrary to the United Nations Convention on Refugees;]] [[Notes that the Netherlands will continue its efforts to comply with the UN Refugee Convention now and in the future;]] [[calls on the government, both in the Netherlands and in the EU, to act in this way,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member of the Houses. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VI-29]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u142	In any case, I do not wish to deny the problems we face. We know that, partly because there has been poor preparation for the flow of refugees that we saw coming towards us last year, we are in many places with our hands in our hair. I would point to the drag of people from crisis relief to crisis relief, the fact that many citizens often feel enormous ambushed by the short preparation time available to achieve care, and the fact that people are very concerned about the way things are going. I'm not denying any of that. At the same time, I would like to emphasise the following. The UN Refugee Convention was drawn up precisely in the aftermath of the Second World War, in which so many people died after knocking in vain on countries, including the Netherlands, who said "no, our doors are closed to you." From these lessons from the Second World War, the treaty was born. It does not matter to say the first time that you really need this treaty, namely at the time of the greatest refugee crisis ever worldwide, that we are closing our borders and Europe is becoming a fortress.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u143	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister and the Secretary of State for answering the various questions I asked in the first term. I am particularly pleased with the commitment, to put it that way, or at least the clarification given by the Minister on the question of undermining and taking away criminal profits that serve no other purpose than the bacon of criminals' own wallets. I am also very happy with the fact that the Minister has stressed that, as far as he is concerned, a case-by-case assessment will be made of the way in which you take away that criminal asset. Not only do I say it again explicitly to be the FIOD or the Public Prosecutor's Office, that might as well be the Tax Office or a municipal service. See the examples in the country, for example in Brabant, to which Mrs Kooiman rightly referred on behalf of her group. I would like to see the Minister's commitment to regularly report or report to us as a Chamber on the results achieved. I think it is extremely important to keep up with it, so that I can monitor whether the integrity is achieved. This is gonna get me into financials. In an interrupting debate, I asked the Minister a question about a broadcast by ZEMBLA that caused me to fall a little off my chair. In fact, we have now received a short note from the Minister on this subject, which, I believe, is a large number of financial detectives working all day long on over-typing data provided by banks. It is necessary to incorporate it into a spreadsheet, so I imagine, in order to find the money flows and thus catch the criminals by the scraps. It is, of course, impossible for those expensively paid workers to do overtype work. I also understand from the Minister that is the note we have received today, that there would be software at the beginning of next year that would make it no longer necessary. Is it true that the 75 FTE that this would bring would at least be what I saw in the same broadcast, then going to work on the real work for which one probably also went to work in the police, namely catching criminals? I would like to hear a clarification from the Minister on this matter. About the police, I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Cabinet reserves 138 million in the 2016 Spring Note for the Legal Aid Bill and the National Police;]] [[having regard to the Intermediary Report on the Implementation of National Police which the Minister for Security and Justice sent to the Chamber on 23 November 2015;]] [[Whereas the pressure on the police is high due to the exceptionally high influx of refugees and the terrorist threats that increasingly affect the police organisation;]] [[Whereas the Minister has asked the Chiefs of Staff to assess the impact of these social developments;]] [[also considering that, in addition to an assessment by the police, he will have further external investigation into the mode of financial management within the Corps at the beginning of 2016;]] [[calls on the Government to make clear as early as possible the possible financial consequences resulting from the above investigations, so that priority can be given to this in the 2017 budget, if necessary,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Oosten, Mr Marcouch and Mr Pechtold. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VI-30]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u144	On the next topic, drugs, I would like to focus briefly. The VVD wants nothing more than liveable neighborhoods, where a government can show up in the event that there are properties that everyone in the neighborhood sees junk being trafficked there, that there are drugs being made, that there are some kind of half laboratories where the drug dealer just happens not to be there or where the drugs themselves aren't present, but for example 8.5 kilos of paracetamol, seven scales, eighteen polospoons, bigshops with brown powder, everything you need to make those drugs. I would very much like the Minister to organise that the administrative and administrative action can then be taken and that the mayor can take responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u145	Yesterday Mr Van Oosten passed on a different recipe, with different quantities. I just wrote it down, but I'm getting confused right now. Can he repeat it? 8 kilos... what was it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u146	Eight and a half kilos of paracetamol. I'm telling you, I don't know the exact number of scales anymore. It's a signal given to me. I took a swing. I said it's seven, but it could be nine. In any case there are much more than there are on average in a kitchen. That is why I am tabling the next motion on behalf of Mr Oskam. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the manufacture and sale of drugs often takes place in residential or residential areas;]] [[Whereas drug trafficking has a significant negative impact on the immediate living environment;]] [[Whereas drugs are often mixed with so-called cutting agents before they are sold;]] [[noting that at present a mayor does not have the legal authority to close premises where large quantities of so-called cut-ups are found, which clearly indicate that drugs have been sold or traded in that property;]] [[noting that the above-mentioned competence is missing in practice;]] [[calls on the Government to adapt its administrative instruments so that it is possible for the Mayor to close down buildings and houses in which large amounts of dissection or tools are found,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Oosten and Mr Oskam. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VI-31]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u147	Finally, I come to the issue of justice. We talked about it several times yesterday and today. I also know that colleagues will come forward with motions. The VVD finds it incredibly important to highlight a number of points. Firstly, that is the near access to justice for every seeker of justice in this country. Secondly, that is the system of financing the case-law. I find it really undesirable if money for the quality of justice in favour of the seeker would land in something other than that. I would really be very sorry if the conclusion is that expensive money, which we collect through taxes, has to land in semi-empty buildings. We're gonna get more half-empty buildings. I want the Secretary of State to take control of this file. I want the Minister to talk to the Justice Council, to the local government and to his colleague for the National Service. I also want him to organise that where state real estate policy is too rigid and too rigid, mayors can take responsibility and make sure that courts that are in danger of being empty are filled with other services for the sake of employment. I want the Minister to work on that. I was considering tabling a motion on this subject, but there is now a motion in the process which will shortly be put forward. I co-signed it on behalf of the VVD. For me, it is crucial that this motion explicitly states that we are not going to finance empty spaces, but that the money ends up with the seeker and with the quality of justice as such. I would like to receive a response from the Minister to his commitment to the easing of government real estate policy. There really is a key to ensuring that mayors and the cabinet with integral glasses and an integral look can oversee this theme. I note that it is inevitable that this government will become "less." Although the VVD stands for a small, capable government, this is a good thing, but you have to think carefully about how to land it and how to implement it. I really expect a lot from the Minister on that point. I'm looking forward to his answer. I'm gonna cheat on my notebook, but with this I've said what I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u148	That also brings you to the very end of your speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u149	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank both heads of government for answering the questions, but I would also like to thank the officials, as I always do when dealing with the budget. They were probably late in answering in writing the many questions put by this Chamber yesterday. Thank you for that. As I indicated in the first term, my group is deeply disturbed by the fact that migrants are promised golden mountains when they have to make the expensive journey to the Netherlands. That is why I started yesterday to put a realistic, correct image on social media, namely the image of sober shelter, where it is not certain whether or not you are allowed to stay here temporarily, and it takes a long time for your application to be taken into procedure, and it is no longer clear that your family may happen. An Arabic translation of the letter from the Secretary of State dated 19 October last was distributed yesterday via Twitter and Facebook. I can report that these 33,000 views have been posted on Facebook and 13,000 views on Twitter. So the letter has been viewed tens of thousands of times. I hope that this will lead those who read it to remember very carefully whether the facilities actually offered are worth the risky and costly journey. Then there's the border checks. On Tuesday, the Chamber adopted a motion tabled by my colleague, Mrs Teeven, together with the CDA Group. It calls for military components other than the Royal Marechaussee to be used at border controls where necessary. These checks are paying off, as the Secretary of State reports that 55 arrests have now been carried out. That staff other than the Royal Marechaussee needs a short training, in the opinion of the VVD, should not prevent the cabinet from using it. Gray, blue or green, I don't care; all capacity must be able to be used at border controls. I'd like to get confirmation that the Secretary of State will do whatever it takes. I also welcome, of course, the reply of the Secretary of State to my desire to strengthen policy towards criminal aliens. Those who are born here, but who choose not to be Dutch, also have to comply with the law. If they do not and commit a serious crime, they can leave the country as far as the VVD is concerned. Not only when there is drug trafficking, but also when there are other serious crimes, such as murder, rape, violent crimes, terrorism or multiple victims, there is no place for them. That is easy to achieve. The Secretary of State has already indicated that he wishes to report on its feasibility and desirability in the short term. I thank the Secretary of State for that. The VVD also welcomes the fact that the Secretary of State has increased attention to the return of people who no longer have the right to be here. From the answer to the questions, I would point out that there seems to have been another Frontex flight to Serbia yesterday. I hope that this Secretary of State's ambition is to increase the frequency further in 2016. Then the list of safe countries. The VVD has a series of countries to add to it. As far as we are concerned, Turkey is number one holiday destination. I gave some examples yesterday. In his response, the Secretary of State challenged me in the first term to mention a series of countries. I'd be happy to. As countries of origin at the 2015 asylum influx: Albania, Algeria, Bangladesh, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Brazil, Chad, Colombia, Cuba, Egypt, France, Ghana, Greece, Honduras, India, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kosovo, Lebanon, Mongolia, Morocco, Nepal, Senegal, Serbia, South Africa, Macedonia, Togo, Trinidad and Tobego, Tunisia, Turkey, the United States of America, Zambia and Zimbabwe. With all due respect, that seems to me to be abbreviate asylum applications that should not be included in the total influx into the procedures. Finally, I will deal with regular economic migration. In my term, I have been very complimentary to the Secretary of State, but on this point I would like to challenge him. For the sake of fairness, I have to admit that the written answer does not show sufficient ambition. If you want control of asylum and migration, it is essential to review the asylum and migration system. In doing so, you must want to take major steps in the area of the regular economic migration model. We may have a hybrid mix of demand-driven and supply-driven schemes, but in view of the labour market, the scheme is mainly demand-driven. In this respect, I refer to the 'knowledge migrants' scheme. To qualify for this scheme, you must have an employer and an X amount of income. In my opinion, we should move to a completely different system, namely a system of point assignment where you can select people not only on the basis of skills, but also, for example, on the basis of affinity with Dutch or western society. How, for example, do you deal with the number of countries of origin? For example, do you choose concentration or deconcentration in the different countries of origin? In my view, we should ultimately go there in the future. In this context, I would like to draw the Secretary of State's attention to the Australian model. This may include elements which will lead us to have a very different economic migration model in the future than the one we have been using so far. Migration is now primarily a threat, and migration can also be a great opportunity for society. Immigrants must be able to participate effectively in society. Now very large groups are on the side of society; they do not feel like a full Dutchman. That is something we must avoid in the future. Otherwise, we will continue to import tomorrow's problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u150	Mr. Chairman. The result of this debate on the budget in the area of asylum and migration is that the financial resources needed for the reception of 58,000 asylum seekers will not be available next year. In this way, the efforts of this State Secretary are well under way, and he is doing his best, as the CDA also sees it, based on financial quicksand. The Secretary of State opts for repairs to the Navy and Spring Note. That's his choice, and that's where the CDA leaves it. The subject of asylum has many layers, from asylum seekers and refugees, just here in the Dutch villages and cities, to the international stage, both politically and militaryly and legally. On that last part, I will table the following two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Netherlands should be able to remain a safe and accessible port for refugees;]] [[calls on the Government, during the 2016 Presidency of the European Union, to put the introduction of displaced persons status on the agenda,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Netherlands should be able to remain a safe and accessible port for refugees;]] [[Calls on the Government to put the adaptation of the Refugee Convention on the agenda during the 2016 Presidency of the European Union,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Keijzer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VI-32]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Keijzer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VI-33]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u151	Mr. Chairman. What an interesting period it was with the Minister and the Secretary of State. The Minister chooses to solve a number of problems that have been going on for a while, only with the Spring Note. This creates the obligation to make it real with the Spring Paper. The Minister is asking for trust from the Chamber. As far as I am concerned, he will have that, but it is a heavy responsibility to put things in order next year. I'm underlining that with a number of motions. The fact that it took so long in the second term had to do with the motion on justice. The discussion on this subject was initially very broad in the opposition, but later the coalition joined. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that in 2013 the Government indicated that 32 full-time seats would remain;]] [[noting that a housing plan has been drawn up by the Council for the purpose of the case-law in order to limit the range of cases in seven courts;]] [[Whereas access to justice is essential in so-called shrinking regions;]] [[calls on the Government to honour its previous commitment and to release sufficient funds in the 2016 Spring Note to keep the courts in Almelo, Assen, Alkmaar, Zutphen, Maastricht, Dordrecht and Lelystad fully open without funding empty positions and to inform the Chamber separately,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the treatment of young criminals, in particular those who have been subject to a conditional PIJ measure (placement in juvie) by the criminal court, is in some cases inadequate;]] [[Considering that the Government has carried out an investigation into its causes and reports to the Court in spring 2016;]] [[calls on the Government, until that time, to make every effort to ensure that the treatment of juvenile criminals takes place rapidly, at least for a maximum period of three months after detention,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that in 2014 the execution of 15,301 sentences, 1,206 custodial sentences and 173 commuted community sentences was time-barred;]] [[whereas this is unacceptable because penalties imposed under the rule of law must be enforced;]] [[calls on the Government to:]] [[more intensive detection and tighter enforcement of penalties in order to prevent their limitation;]] [[to examine how the statutory limitation period ex Art. 76 Criminal Code may be extended in order to allow for a longer period of time for penalties to be enforced;]] [[report to the Chamber on its results,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Oskam, Mr Van Nispen, Mr Pechtold, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Krol, Mr Van Tongeren, Mr Recourt, Mr Van Oosten and Mr Voordewind.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VI-34]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Oskam, Mr Kooiman, Mr Volp and Mr Van der Burg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VI-35]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Oskam, Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Van Oosten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VI-36]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u152	It's a good motion, except for one point. By extending the deadline, you're removing the pressure from the government. I told you that during an interruption. Mr Oskam then said that he only wanted this for the people who are avoiding detention. Can we interpret the motion in such a way that the law on that point needs to be amended? In that case, she's effective. If you extend the general term, the government can sit on her hands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u153	Mr Recourt has the right to interpret her in this way. Yesterday I explained it that way and the co-subsidiaries feel the same way. I thought the Minister was a good answer. He said he's gonna do anything about it. That appealed to me, but I also think that the government should have enough tools to catch the people who are trying to undermine the system. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government intends to close at least 200 police stations over the next 10 years;]] [[Whereas prior to decision on the closure of a police station, the consequences for services and driving times and the financial consequences should be made clear;]] [[invites the Government to inform the Chamber by police station of the consequences of the planned closure,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Oskam, Mr Segers, Mr Kooiman and Mr Van der Staaij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VI-37]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u154	People who pay attention know this is an old motion. Six days ago, however, she was annulled because of the deadline. Perhaps we should have extended the limitation period there as well. For that reason, I shall retable the motion. I would like to put her to the vote in the budget. I've got one more weird duck in the bite. The Minister had a letter from Zeeland asking that something should be done in particular for the training of enforcers. I didn't have time for that in my first term. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the police intends to end the cooperation with the Scalda College for Uniform Occupations in Middelburg for the training of Maintainer Surveillance and Security (HTV);]] [[Whereas continuing training in Zeeland is important for pupils and employers in the public domain;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the Scalda College for Uniform Occupations and the Zeeland-West Brabant Police Unit, to maintain the specialization police of the training HTV in Zeeland,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Oskam and Mr Van der Staaij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VI-38]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u155	I'm in a luxury position right now, because I never have time left. I still have two separate questions for the Minister. My group is pleased that the Minister is finally going to appeal to countries to withdraw the passport of people who want to leave, such as Syrians, if the Netherlands has already done so. I ask the Minister which countries will be specifically affected. I would ask him to report the results of a number of requests to the Chamber when he updates the jihadism action plan. Maybe he can tell us something about what he has discussed with the Minister of Justice of Morocco. A group from the permanent chamber committee was in Morocco and this was also discussed. We know that Minister Van der Steur later spoke to that Minister, so perhaps he can say something about this. I also promised the Minister to remind him of the reservoir of overtime at the National Police. He would come back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u156	The time that remains will remain available to your colleagues, Mr. Oskam. So that time is not lost.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u157	Mr. Chairman. Good luck has many fathers. This Justice budget is just going to be a success. Last spring, this minister, then MP, and I in the newspaper, said that there was nothing left for the execution services. That was at a time when there were all kinds of setbacks known. There was an advance on the negotiations that took place this summer and this autumn. The First Chamber took an advance by saying that that budget would not be adopted by it. By the way, the First Chamber did so in a Chamber-wide manner, including the coalition parties. The Registry fees didn't even come through here. In the Lower House, the opposition took on a strong role. In short, we have all been busy with the improvement, albeit a bit more than the other. The directors have done so well that one party, the SP, who said in advance that they would vote against, just in the second term said that they would even vote in favour if three motions were adopted. That's good, I can't say otherwise. My party won't lie in front of it. We are therefore going to vote in favour of these three motions. We think this is extremely important. We do not want the 250 million to be put at risk. That 250 million is urgently needed in the justice field, which craves money like a desert for water. One of the points was that seven courts might do less. I had my own motions in preparation. I let it go because the CDA was kind enough to want to do this together and ask us if we wanted to join. We thought that was the best motion, so I was happy to put my name under it. One element isn't in it. I did have that in my own motion, so I'm just going to deal with this orally. I believe that the Minister intends to involve the State Real Estate Company, but I want to know for sure now. These are 32 court locations. We need to look at those square meters and solve the problem. It would help the National Real Estate Company if Minister Blok, the responsible minister, was on board to think about a solution. In my first term, I had been committed to innovation. I'm about to file a motion on that. The Minister also told me to wait quietly, because spring is coming and then he comes up with some plans. I'm just gonna wait on that one. That is why I am abandoning my motion on chain financing, but I am very curious. Innovation remains necessary in order to be able to take real steps. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his very realistic treatment of this problem, which the Netherlands is facing. Then sharpening does not help; then a practical attitude helps. I recognize them at the Secretary of State. He's doing an excellent job, thank you for that. I'm filing two motions. The first is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Netherlands does not have a system for conditional release in the event of life imprisonment;]] [[Considering that on 24 November 2015 the Assen Court refused to impose a life sentence for virtually non-application of the possibility of pardon for life sentences and that life imprisonment without any prospect of release would be at odds with the European Convention on Human Rights;]] [[considers that life imprisonment without any real prospect of release in the future is contrary to Article 3 of the ECHR with regard to the ban on inhumane punishment and thus inhumane;]] [[Considers that, in the absence of a prospect of release, judges will not impose life imprisonment in the future, thereby risking that most serious crimes will no longer be punishable by life imprisonment;]] [[calls on the Government to come forward with a legislative proposal which envisages a periodic independent review of life imprisonment which offers prospects for release,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Recourt, Mr Voordewind and Mr Swinkels. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VI-39]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u158	I listened very carefully to the motion. In it, Mr Recourt said that he considered that the system of life imprisonment contrary to Article 3 of the ECHR and therefore inhumane. Is that the opinion of Mr Recourt, or does he think that there is no legal alternative but to make a change on this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u159	Both. I believe that everyone, even the greatest criminal, has the right to hope; not the right to be released; some people should really be in prison for life, but the right to hope. That is my opinion, even more so, that is my conviction. However, it is also my legal opinion that the Netherlands is committed to this. The European Court of Human Rights has made a number of judgments which show that it sees the right to hope as a basic right of every human being. The Dutch court at first instance may still be able to change it to appeal, and has now ruled that in the court of Assen. Other judges in the Netherlands have also fired shots before: politics, rule it, otherwise we will not impose a life sentence. The VVD should not want that, because the worst crimes, such as multiple murders, are no longer punishable by life imprisonment, but by temporary punishment. That's an undesirable situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u160	There is no doubt that we are going to pursue this discussion further in the Chamber, because there is a considerable legal challenge here. Is the solution no longer in the focus of the present system of pardons rather than in the immediate creation of a kind of general review moment? Should we allow criminals who do not hesitate to shoot through children's rooms, who do nothing with fear, to take those police officers with them in their actions to shoot someone, to offer a perspective on freedom?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u161	I have said it before: I think it is a basic principle of humanity that even the perpetrators of the most terrible acts are entitled to hope; not the right to be released, but the right to hope. After all, 30, 40 years can change a lot. In any case, the victims or relatives must always be involved. I'm filing my second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the number of divorces is increasing;]] [[considers that as much as possible it should be avoided that divorces have adverse effects on children, unduly confiscate case law or have other undesirable social consequences;]] [[considers that the establishment of legal proceedings on divorce and its financing is not sufficiently focused on preventing the escalation of divorce conflicts;]] [[Considering that innovative forms of case law or dispute resolution can ensure that divorces are completed in a more harmonious and cost-effective way;]] [[believes that citizens and organisations challenged by the government can have solutions to problems that are not properly solved by existing parties and procedures;]] [[calls on the Government to issue a "divorce challenge" giving civil society parties the opportunity to develop and implement solutions leading to a reduction in the share of divorces by at least 50%,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Recourt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VI-40]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u162	I was referring in my motion to a "divorce challenge." By that I mean a kind of divorce challenge, I say in response to angry e-mails saying that I use too many English terms. I would once again like to thank the directors and the large number of officials for their work in writing and listening teams. They did an excellent job.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u163	Mr. Chairman. Safety is the ground under our feet. Without security, no freedom, and without freedom, no life. In this sense, this was a very important budget treatment, but ultimately it means that the people on the work floor and the people outside at the front have to do the work. I would therefore like to thank the Minister for his warm words to all those practitioners who are working for us day in, day out of 24 hours so that we can live safe and free. I call on the Minister to keep those people in mind every day and every day and to facilitate them as much as possible. I also wish him a great deal of wisdom and generosity, as well as in the negotiations on the police cao. Ultimately, it is about the performers and the quality of the execution must be good. That's what matters in the end. The good news is that the threat level in Brussels has been scaled down from 4 to 3. It has not yet been said that we can sit back, because the fight against terrorism is a long-term struggle. As I said earlier in my speech, Salafism is the front portal of the violent jihad. I've prepared a motion on that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the AIVD notes that salafism is growing in the Netherlands and has an elusive dynamic and that it is becoming increasingly a breeding ground for jihadism;]] [[Whereas a legal person whose purpose and/or activities are contrary to public policy may be prohibited by a court at the request of the Public Prosecutor;]] [[noting that jihadism, as witnessed by his manuals and textbooks, is a violent ideology completely embedded in the Salafist doctrine;]] [[believes that salafism in the Netherlands is an isolationist focus on intolerance, anti-democratic activities and polarisation, thereby forming a breeding ground for radicalisation and violent jihadism;]] [[calls on the Government to ask the Public Prosecutor to investigate the possibility of banning Salafist organizations for reasons of law and order,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Marcouch and Mr Tellegen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VI-41]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u164	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for having shown in his response that he was aware of the safety of the IBTs in the reception centres. Does he want to see whether, in that thinking and the actions he intends to take, a person of trust can not be appointed specifically in the reception centres, at least someone from whom everyone knows that he can go there if he has something to worry about and that he can talk about lht in complete freedom and security? That's very sensitive in those communities. I would like a response from the Secretary of State to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u165	Mr. Chairman. We have now debated the budget of the Ministry of Security and Justice for two days. The stakes were rarely so high and the outcome was so low. The opposition has done its best, but the coalition keeps the blinders firm. What did we hear about the VVD? "Some moth, that moth," but deliver, no matter what. The PvdA spoke of a "divorce challenge," the right to hope and a business canteen at a police training site. Let there be no misunderstanding that these are important issues, but the timing is not really great. It is nothing more or less than an attempt to talk but above all not about the substance of the matter. At the heart of the matter is money or, rather, a lack of money. The PvdA and the VVD, who have their mouths full of the rule of law, again do not do what is necessary. Part of the rule of law is the trias politician, or the three state powers: the legislative power, the executive power and the judicial power. On the basis of the so-called checks-and-balances, these three state powers control each other and also keep each other in balance. And what they explicitly don't do is keep each other's hands above their heads. That's what both coalition parties do. Instead of acting as part of the legislative power as a representative of the people, the minister is protected as part of the executive. Let there be no misunderstanding: I also like both gentlemen in box K. But that's not what this is about. The point is that, as a representative of the people, we must do what is in the interests of the citizens. And the public is not served by a security chain that can no longer make ends meet financially, at a time of terrorist threat and a flow of refugees that is increasing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u166	I'm a little surprised. Firstly, there is 250 million, and secondly, I think it is quite likely that now that my group is going to vote in favour of these three motions, the rest of the Chamber will vote in favour of this budget. Doesn't the PVV connect to what happened here in the Chamber? It seems as if Mrs Helder has been outside, is now coming in and thinks, just like two days ago, that with the exception of the coalition, everyone is against this budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u167	I can almost make that accusation to Mr Recourt, who called the budget a success. Then I almost fell off my chair. It's not that nothing happened, but we all called for 250 million more. And do you know where they're going now? No, because there's still a hole. The Minister is fighting and will come to the Spring Paper with a response to possible reports that we have already received. We all don't know exactly where that 250 million is going. My group's criticism of this budget was that it has not been labelled, that it is not clear what the police's collective agreement will cost and that it is not yet clear what a number of other posts will cost. This should have been made clear in this budget. It's a good move to add money. But it's too little and it's not clear where it's going either. That should have been made clear in the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u168	First of all, if you're negotiating a collective agreement, you don't know what it's gonna cost. That must be clear even for the PVV. How can you blame the cabinet for that? Secondly, I did not hear the PVV say: 400 million to that and that post, we will do it for that. So it remains a bit of a gratuitous saying that it is not enough, without something concrete.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u169	You know what else is gratuitous: to support opposition party motions as a coalition party without providing cover. I always hear them say: if there is no cover, we are not going to support it. Or they say if they're unnecessary, we're not gonna support them. And you will now. And what's gonna happen with the Spring Note? Then that cover isn't found and we have six months later to deal with that mess again. My group is in favour of this. I will continue with my speech. It was a nice little bridge. This budget should have gone back to the drawing board. The Minister has undoubtedly done his best to get more money, but, as far as my group is concerned, more needs to be done. I have also substantiated that in the first term. I have just done so as a result of the interruption. What I have already said is that it should have been labelled, so that it is clear in advance what the extra money is spent on. Only then can the Chamber control the Minister and the Secretary of State and do its job properly, exercising budget law. Only then will the police, the prosecution and the judiciary know what they're up to. I have already concluded that the PVV will vote against this budget. It is a budget which the Minister himself has referred to as the draft budget. In other words: nothing has been poured into concrete yet. In his reply, the Minister is happy to say that the extra money that the PVV is asking for will not be there at all. However, he also knows that if there is a change in the budget, there will be a letter of amendment. And a new budget is like a new round. We all know the proverb: new round, new opportunities! I blamed the Minister for looking away in the first place. That reproach has only increased, because answers to the ambulant questions I have asked are merely a repetition of what is already in the Minister's letters. My group merely asked for a guarantee from the Minister that the costs of delaying the reorganisation of the National Police were not borne by the police themselves. We have been asked not to dwell on the fact that there are still investigations going on. The answer was: I have it examined and the result is involved in the Spring Note. This answer is no surprise, but it remains a weak answer. Anyway, the minister walks in the Prime Minister's tradition, who indicated that you only have a warranty on vacuum cleaners. To be continued, so, with the Spring Note in six months. My group has also asked why no more agents are being trained in handling heavier weapons, supported by the remark that those weapons can remain available in the car or at the station, so that the agents do not have to patrol with heavier weapons. No heavy-armed neighborhood cops, then. However, in the event of a threat or an attack, it is possible to act more quickly and from a greater, safer distance. Agents can then, until the Special Intervention Service arrives, at least from a distance frustrate. I have made it clear that it must and must remain the DSI that must take out terrorists. That's not a job for "ordinary" cops. The Minister's answer was: to maintain the connection with the district, heavier armament is not appropriate. But I didn't ask you to. The Minister spoke in his first term of office about the agents who are taking a step forward, where we, as citizens, are taking a step back. But unfortunately, not a word about the security of those agents. That is a disappointment and my advice to the Minister would be: go on patrol or sit in the dispatch room and look at the agents who should then go for a report. As far as my group is concerned, they are heroes. They deserve appreciation, respect and the right armament. Then my group does not want a weak answer from the Minister, who is safe here in Box K. I'll come to a conclusion. My group's position on this budget has not changed. My group does not table any motions without cover, but the Minister is of course free to vote until the time when the vote is taking place, to produce a letter of amendment which still responds somewhat to what my group has put forward in the first term and has provided detailed justification. Entirely responding to this may not happen, although it is almost sinterklaas. In part, it might be possible. I'm just waiting for it to be thrilled. Furthermore, I think our position is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u170	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands has been unable to cope with the ongoing asylum disaster for a long time. Everyone sees it has to stop immediately. Unfortunately, only this cabinet doesn't see it. This cabinet keeps the borders wide open and, unfortunately, does not have the courage to limit the influx of asylum. Instead, hundreds of millions are being coughed up again, taking up tens of thousands of new fortune seekers in the coming period. That is the reality and, despite the words of the VVD Group in particular, nothing changes at all. The VVD keeps saying that the border is almost reached and has been calling for years, but meanwhile the VVD is signing off on a budget based on the influx of many tens of thousands more lucky seekers. Hypocriter can't do it. The problems can only be solved in one way, and that is why I shall again table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to close the Dutch borders and not to allow any more asylum seekers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Fritsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VI-42]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u171	That's what this is about. In this way, asylum seekers will no longer enter the Netherlands, there will be no asylum reception and there will no longer be an asylum procedure. That's what needs to be done. The PVV Group will continue to fight for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u172	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the two directors for their reply. It's two exciting days. A lot of "hulde" was called. Salute to the minister and to the opposition. I should also like to pay tribute to the electorate, who has ensured that we have arranged for power and opposition in this Parliament, and across the Senate, so that not only Friday was there to be movement, but there seems to be movement also today. That's incredibly important. We were waiting hard for money to come, but this debate already shows that in the next year we will see not only the wishes, but also the problems surrounding the various parts of this budget again for a long time. In particular, there are three problems: the courts, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the police, which is the whole chain. That's what all the reports had just been published on it. The minister said, "I'm a combatant." As far as I'm concerned, the Minister is not allowed to make empty promises to us. We are asking a lot of the Minister if we ask him to settle it now, but I do think he should give a clear picture of the time frame for this, as far as I am concerned, is that the 2016 Spring Note on which we can finally put the problems surrounding that ministry behind us. That's gonna be important. I also think that the Minister should give us a mid-term review on 1 March and that he should tell him, in an interruption, that there is an active obligation to inform him about the situation with regard to setbacks and the development of finances. That 50 million coverage from other departments stings me like shit. I will also table a motion on this. I say to the Secretary of State, like Mrs Keijzer, that my group is also concerned about this estimate of refugees. A number of parties, in particular the CDA, SP and D66, have submitted motions in particular on the problematic parts. The rulers have already heard one about the courthouse, they have heard one about the police and now I give them the one about the Public Prosecutor's Office. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas new tasks will be added for the Public Prosecutor's Office, including in the field of terrorism, undermining crime and cybercrime;]] [[calls on the Government, in the 2016 Spring Note, to release sufficient resources to ensure these additional tasks and to inform the Court separately,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Pechtold, Mr Oskam, Mr Kooiman, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Voordewind and Mr Van Tongeren.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VI-43]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u173	I've already announced that I'd rather not see cuts in education, although, of course, the Justice Department is dear to me. Therefore, the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that, in order to partially cover the intensifications in the years 2016 to 2018, the government distributes EUR 50 million per year by budget total among the different departments and that the implementation thereof is foreseen by spring note;]] [[Considers that intensification in Security and Justice should not be at the expense of the Education budget;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the Chamber, to provide alternative cover for this 50 million,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Pechtold, Mr Kooiman and Mr Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VI-44]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u174	Some of the cover is sought in settlements, but I would also like to draw the Court's verdict on this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the coverage of the EUR 310.5 million for the budget of Security and Justice does not create a perverse incentive to settle as many cases as possible rather than bring them to justice,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Pechtold, Mr Kooiman, Mr Voordewind and Mr Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VI-45]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u175	My question concerns non-shortening education. I can't stop thinking that's a little weird. It was Mr Pechtold, and by the way everyone in the Chamber, who said: there is too little money going to V and J, that really needs more. Even 250 million wasn't enough. If you realize that that money is no longer available from the V and J budget, it has to come from somewhere else. Is it not consistent, then, to say that we are waiting for the 2016 Spring Note and seeing where it comes from, but we realise that at least it cannot come from the budget of V and J and must therefore come from somewhere else? Now there is money that is being taken away from other ministries, but that is not the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u176	If I were a coalition party, you'd be right to call me on that. But it was the party of VVD and PvdA, which divided just 500 million, rising to 750 million, between care and defense. That's what happened. We stood there as a room and looked at it. That was separate from the 5 billion. You could also have said to this minister: if there is 500 million to be distributed up to 750 million, let us start with justice. You didn't choose that. In the direction of the PvdA I say that I really think that's a bad turn. Now that the porridge has almost been deposited, I can tell you where I don't think the money should come from. If Mr Recourt says: take it out of the 750 million that we have divided together, that is an alternative for me. I have already indicated that a lot of parties will say: not there, not there and not there. D66 then says: not in education.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u177	That is exactly the heart of the problem. You can say there's more money in V and J, but if you also say you can't take it off somewhere else, you keep keeping a problem. I can do blackbirds, too. During the period when Mr Pechtold was still a member of the constructive opposition, he did not say that money had to be added to V and J. He then spent his money on education and a number of other things. In short, we have all done so. Politics is making choices. The question is, what do you divide scarce money on? It's crazy when you say I want it to go to V and J, but I don't want to lose it anywhere else?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u178	Once again, this is all based on the premise, the premise, that I have to settle for the choices made by the coalition. I don't share those choices. The PvdA has invented only 5 billion relief. Was that money there? No. It has also been thought that 500 million up to 750 million can be given away in the coming years to things that PvdA and VVD consider important. If Mr Recourt had come to see me, I would have said: do a piece of defence, do a piece of concern and look at justice. Now I draw a red line and put my heels in the sand. We're not taking money away from education. Or does the Labour Party want to cut back on Education? I don't think so. That's why I filed that motion. I'd like to see the PvdA vote in favour of that motion. I'm moving on to ICT, also important. We talked about the master plan. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Hoekstra report showed that information exchange and accessibility in the criminal justice chain should be improved;]] [[noting the financial failures of ICT that occur in the criminal justice chain;]] [[Whereas cooperation in the criminal justice chain can only be improved if ICT and information are properly linked;]] [[calls on the government, in the spring paper in 2016, to come forward with a master plan for ICT for the entire criminal justice chain, including investment pathway and pilot gardens,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Pechtold, Mr Van Nispen, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Voordewind and Mr Van Tongeren.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VI-46]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u179	I'm almost there. The next motion is about the NFI. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that forensic investigations are becoming increasingly important as evidence in criminal matters;]] [[calls on the Government to provide for incidental additional funding for the Netherlands Forensic Institute in the event of a temporary substantial increase in workload,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Pechtold, Mr Van Nispen, Mr Oskam, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Voordewind and Mr Van Tongeren.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VI-47]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u180	The final motion concerns SMEs. There are two projects the Minister wants to cut back on. I believe that this was, of course, a temporary impulse. Because we are still so high on crime in business areas and in shopping centres, it is very important that the Minister looks again closely at whether these projects can be brought down a little less quickly. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the number of shoplifters remains high in the Netherlands and that it costs shopkeepers more than EUR 1 billion per year;]] [[Whereas small and medium-sized enterprises benefit from the Safe Enterprise Mark and the Small Business Safety Scheme in order to be able to take security measures against, inter alia, shoplifting;]] [[calls on the government to reconsider the cuts and to inform the Chamber prior to the votes on them,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Pechtold, Mr Kooiman, Mr Oskam, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Voordewind and Mr Van Tongeren.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VI-48]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u181	Finally. The rulers have done a great deal in recent days to convince the Chamber of their budget. I think the most important step has been taken in the last week, when the cabinet actually showed that it was willing to pay for it. What my group is going to do depends in particular on how these three cases are handled in the chain, the police, the court and the Public Prosecutor. I am glad that one of the coalition parties has already given a positive signal. If it all goes this way, it could mean that my group could also vote in favour of this budget. It is, however, a budget in which not only the Minister of Finance keeps watching, but also this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u182	Mr. Chairman. I too thank the rulers for their reply. Before we entered the debate, there were indeed three points of concern: the Public Prosecutor's Office, the police and the courts. My party, with the Slob/Samsom motion in the General Reviews, has, of course, drawn a lot of attention to this. The Minister has promised to talk to the seven regions again. We supported Mr. Oskam's motion. We had our own motion at first, but it finally became one motion. For us too, these three motions are essential in looking at the budget of justice. Stay on track about our concerns about human trafficking and human trafficking. We need to keep a good balance in that. I shall table a motion on this matter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that it is desirable that the police, Royal Marchaussee and Public Prosecutor's Office invest in tackling human trafficking in relation to the flow of refugees;]] [[Whereas this approach to trafficking in human beings should not be at the expense of the fight against other forms of trafficking in human beings, such as trafficking in human beings in prostitution;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the available capacity of police, Royal Marchaussee and Public Prosecutor's Office to deal with trafficking in human beings remains at the level and, if necessary, to release funds for this in the Spring Note,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Voordewind, Mr Recourt, Mr Pechtold, Mr Van Tongeren, Mr Krol, Mr Kuzu and Mr Van der Staaij.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VI-49]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u183	Then I come to three motions on the asylum section. The first is about the possibilities for after-travel. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas due to the increased influx of asylum, it takes longer for an asylum application to be assessed in substance and this also has implications for the possibility of single minor asylum seekers to apply for family reunification;]] [[calls on the Government to allow the right to post-travel for these border cases,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Voordewind. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VI-50]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u184	In previous debates with the Secretary of State, we called for attention to be paid to general ministers who cannot naturalize. I'll make a motion on that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a policy change has recently been announced for Ranov licence holders, for the specific group of ethnic Armenians from Azerbaijan, no longer requiring the presentation of an apostille-planned birth certificate or an Azerbaijani passport;]] [[considers that the expiry of one requirement should not lead to the imposition of a new requirement;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that no further obstacles are imposed on this group in the forthcoming amendment of the Guide to the application of the Rijkswet to the Netherlandserschap,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Voordewind. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VI-51]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u185	My final motion concerns humanitarian admission programmes. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas refugees are often forced to use the services of smugglers when fleeing, at the risk of their own lives, and the UNHCR therefore calls for the establishment of legal escape routes;]] [[noting that a large number of European countries, such as Germany, Austria, Switzerland, Great Britain and Ireland, have now responded to this call;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibilities of a humanitarian admission programme, in particular with regard to vulnerable family members who cannot be admitted through family reunification such as dependent grandparents or a single sister or refugees who are particularly vulnerable for medical reasons,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Voordewind. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VI-52]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u186	Mr. Chairman. I'll file the next three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas every suspect has the right to an attorney during the police interrogation;]] [[Whereas the fees paid by counsellors at this stage of the criminal investigation are in no way proportionate to the work involved;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how fees to counsellors during police interviews can be made more consistent with the scope of the work involved in this legal aid provision and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the College of Human Rights makes a substantial contribution to the promotion and respect of human rights in the Netherlands in practice, policies and legislation;]] [[noting that the College currently has insufficient resources to carry out public information and human rights education;]] [[calls on the Government to enable the College to carry out its tasks in the best possible way through an increase in the budget in 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the railway police, who also had an important preventive role because of its presence at stations, have been involved in the National Police;]] [[Whereas railway staff and rail passengers should be able to rely on the rapid deployment specifically around the track of qualified police personnel in threatening situations and that such deployment would benefit from the reintegration of a railway police;]] [[calls on the Government to provide for police capacity to be deployed specifically at and around train stations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Tongeren and Van Nispen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VI-53]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Tongeren and Swinkels. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VI-54]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VI-55]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u187	Mr. Chairman. I thank the rulers for their reply. There has been a lot of improvement in the budget of Security and Justice since the presentation on Princess Day. This was done in particular in the letter of amendment we received from the budget during this debate. It solves important bottlenecks. My group is in favour of this. However, it is also very important that the motions put forward in the Chamber in the areas of police, justice and the Public Prosecutor's Office help to ensure that it does not just resolve bottlenecks, but that there really is a trend towards greater investment in these important sectors. I trust that these motions will receive a positive welcome so that my group can vote for this budget with confidence. I have another question about the neighborhood agents. It's a good thing the Minister is talking to the mayors. I would like to hear him say that he will also highlight the purpose of the legal standard. That standard is one district cop out of 5,000 inhabitants. By this I mean that all municipalities can actually claim one district agent per 5,000 inhabitants. This should not depend on regional struts. I would like to make four further motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the implementation of the agreements in the 2005-2007 collective agreement on mental care in the police sector has been stagnated;]] [[believes that this should be done quickly;]] [[calls on the Government, as soon as possible, but no later than 1 April 2016, to provide clarity on the design of mental care in the police and the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is also important, in order to prevent recurrence, that prisoners should be able to work equally after detention;]] [[noting that preparations are being made for a pilot project "De Compagnie" which brings prisoners into contact with an employer with the help of volunteers for entry into post-detention jobs;]] [[calls on the Government to provide financial support to such pilots with a high level of involvement from society and to consider the extent to which financial resources for labour integration can also be used for a three-year pilot,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is important that, during their detention period, perpetrators are faced with their responsibility for and the consequences of their actions for victims, possible survivors and society;]] [[noting that there are projects aimed at victim-oriented work and that their funding will end in 2016;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Chamber of how victim-oriented work is structurally guaranteed by summer 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Oskam, Mr Marcouch and Mr Voordewind. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VI-56]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Voordewind. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VI-57]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Oskam and Mr Voordewind. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VI-58]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u188	I would like to hear a further clarification from Mr Van der Staaij on 'victim-oriented projects'. Does this include mediation in criminal law?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u189	These are projects such as the SOS projects and other projects aimed at restoring rights and the culprit's reflection on what he has been doing. These are projects aimed at contacting victims.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u190	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u191	Finally, in the field of asylum, I shall table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that extending the current five-year period for obtaining an indefinite residence permit may contribute to the support for asylum policy and may encourage faster integration and economic independence;]] [[calls on the Government to bring forward a legislative proposal to extend the period for obtaining an indefinite residence permit to seven years,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Keijzer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VI-59]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u192	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister and the Secretary of State, especially for the written answer to the questions. I appreciate that very much. We welcome the attempt by the cabinet to pay particular attention to vulnerable groups, such as some older people, in the erosion of NL-alert. The Minister acknowledged that these groups use mobile telephony less. 50PLUS continues to follow closely how the Minister intends to do this. I had a motion in preparation about the life testament, because it is very difficult for many people to count down money from a notary. The Minister indicated that he would like to discuss with us and the elderly unions how his idea of a private act, a second best solution, could be made more widely known. I will not therefore table the motion, but I do expect the Minister to give me a gesture that we are really going to do something about it. Digitalisation is a step forward, but we must be careful not to create new digital stacks. At the same time, there must always be a guarantee that people who have difficulty with it will have access to the legal system in a different way. Finally, I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government intends to reduce the subsidy for the Foundation Disputes Committees on Consumer Affairs (SGC) over the coming years;]] [[Whereas the handling of complaints and disputes by the SGC contributes to reduced influx of more expensive cases into the legal system, as the government itself has indicated;]] [[whereas the position of the SGC must be safeguarded precisely, given the cuts in the case law;]] [[calls on the Government to reconsider the phasing-out of the SGC grant over the coming years and to seek alternative financing,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Krol, Mr Van Nispen and Mr Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VI-60]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u193	How does this motion relate to the amendment? After all, this provides for repair work to be carried out here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u194	Repair of the amendment is mainly aimed at next year and this is about the years after that. I think it is wise that we should ensure that in future too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u195	Mr. Chairman. If on national television a so-called radicalisation expert indicates that it is a sign of radicalisation when people speak to each other with "brother" or "sister" and at the same time give information to the police, ethnic profiling is, in my opinion, an important and not to be underestimated issue. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Amnesty International has been calling for attention for years to be paid to the fight against "ethnic profiling" by the Dutch police;]] [[noting that the UN was also very critical of ethnic profiling by the Dutch police in a report this year;]] [[believes that a cultural change is necessary in the police to make ethnic profiling disappear;]] [[calls on the government to come forward with concrete proposals to combat the evil practice of ethnic profiling by the police,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that research shows that agents experience discrimination in the workplace;]] [[Noting that Chief Constable Gerard Bouman last April. speaks in an internal blog about a culture within the police force of exclusion, belittle and disrespectful treatment of Islamic agents;]] [[believes that the police should set a good example;]] [[calls on the government to make concrete proposals to tackle discrimination within the police organisation, such as launching a dismissal procedure for discriminatory agents,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VI-61]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VI-62]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u196	I have only 30 seconds left, but I would suggest that we deduct the time I am speaking in addition from the speaking time for dealing with the SZB budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u197	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u198	I'll file the final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that public revenues from traffic fines double every 10 years;]] [[having noted that the General Court is very critical of the increases in traffic fines and says that increases have been made because the expected revenue of the government was left behind;]] [[noting that, according to the Council of State, the purpose of increasing traffic fines should never be to cover disappointing revenue;]] [[calls on the government to reduce the fines for traffic offences by 50% in order to reverse the excessive increases in recent decades,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VI-63]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u199	Mr. Chairman. All groups welcome the extra 250 million in the budget, but everyone is happy with a dead sparrow, because this is not an investment in security. There are cuts being reversed, but there is no question of investments in security, real investments. My group will therefore vote against the budget. I have four motions. The first is about the reorganisation of the police. It has failed and must therefore be reversed. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the reorganisation of the police has been seriously delayed and is twice as expensive;]] [[Whereas various experts from police and judicial backgrounds indicate that the formation of national police has failed;]] [[calls on the government to stop the current reorganisation of the National Police, with the exception of three quick wins, namely the ICT area, procurement and work processes,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bontes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VI-64]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u200	Policemen on the street and people from the Royal Marechaussee who do security services really need heavier armament, therefore the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the terrorist threat in the Netherlands is unprecedented;]] [[Whereas the government must make every effort to ensure the safety of the Dutch population;]] [[Whereas the largest ACP police union has called for greater arming of police officers and the possibility of carrying the service weapon in private time, as in France, for example;]] [[Whereas the Royal Marechaussee also carries only guns in the surveillance of sensitive objects, such as the building of the House of Representatives;]] [[calls on the Government, the police and the Royal Marechaussee to step up their armament and allow them to carry their service weapon in private time,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bontes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VI-65]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u201	The Minister has just announced that he has concluded a new agreement and has entered into talks with Turkey to improve judicial cooperation. It would be nice if Turkey were to comply with our requests for legal aid. That's why I'd like to give the Minister a little push. To that end, I shall table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Turkey has still not implemented the requests for legal aid on the Demmink issue;]] [[whereas the Netherlands and Turkey have recently agreed to strengthen judicial cooperation;]] [[calls on the Government to put more pressure on Turkey to implement the requests for legal aid on the Demmink issue,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bontes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VI-66]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u202	My last motion is about traffic fines. Eventually, the proceeds will be used to fatten the state treasury. You can't do that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the judge concluded that fines for traffic offences, the so-called Mulder Fines, have been unduly increased in recent years in order to pay the state budget;]] [[calls on the Government, in view of this judgment, to substantially reduce the traffic fines in question,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bontes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VI-67]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u203	I give the floor to the Minister for Security and Justice to respond to the two amendments and to some of the motions. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u204	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the members of your Chamber for their contribution to the second term. We have also discussed our first budget again today in a constructive atmosphere. I am very grateful to all the Members of your Chamber that this has been constructive, constructive, not without criticism and not without concern, but in a very pleasant atmosphere. I myself thought this was a very special experience, and I know that this also applies to the Secretary of State. I shall first deal with the questions raised in the second period and with some of the answers that Members still had from the first period. Then I come to the motions and amendments that have been tabled; in reverse order; I shall do the amendments first and then the motions. Mrs Kooiman and Mr Van Oosten have asked if I can regularly inform the Chamber of the results of the removal. Of course I'd be happy to. I imagine that I will do so in any case in the progress report on the Rijkswide approach to fraud which the Chamber receives every year in December. In addition, in the annual report on the budget for Security and Justice, I will pay explicit attention to progress on this issue, which is partly linked to the budget. Then I come to the question put by Mr Recourt on KEI. I didn't remember that question being open. I thought I had raised it extensively in the first period, but perhaps it would be good if I looked briefly at the issue of KEI. In 2016, it is estimated that EUR 63 million will have to be invested in KEI, of which EUR 35 million will be covered within the current prices, on which my contribution to the Justice Council is based. So there is still a bottleneck of 28 million for this programme. The grant of 20 million in 2016 can be used for this purpose. In later years, the necessary investments in KEI will decrease. As investments in KEI are therefore not evenly distributed over the years, reserves can be used, which are currently sufficient for this purpose. The funds remaining after 2016 from the amount of EUR 25 million, which will therefore no longer be needed for KEI, can then be used in the price negotiations for any investments in quality improvement. The independent expert advised an investigation and an experiment on this. Mr Van Oosten asked how the Minister looked at easing the policy of the National Real Estate Company. I've already said in the first installment that it's a bit of a weird duck in the bite, because I'm not going over it. However, I fully agree with Mr Van Oosten and the other parties who have tabled the motion to prevent vacant posts in court buildings. This also applies to vacant buildings which do not form part of the said seven courts, I say to Mr Recourt. In addition, we will of course need the National Real Estate Company. I think we also need the municipalities in which these buildings are located. My ministry, together with the Council of Justice, is working to reduce this vacancy. In several places work is being done on so-called V and J clusters. The first results are already visible, for example in Middelburg, where the Children's Protection Board moves into court. Paid co-use of court buildings is the Council's policy for justice. One problem seems to be that some parties, such as local authorities, are not allowed as paid co-users of state buildings. In view of Mr Van Oosten's comments, I will discuss this with my colleague for Wonen and Rijksdienst and, of course, with the Council for Justice. Then I come to Mr Van Oosten's question about the broadcast of Zembla last night. Much, if not all, of what was presented in this broadcast has already been noted and shared with the Chamber by the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and myself. That's a comforting thought. We're gonna need to go with the tracking in modern times. There is a shift from visible, physical crime to greater, invisible and less physical crime. That's what I wrote in my review note. Not for nothing are undermining, integral taking away, cybercrime and fraud priorities in the 2015-2018 Security Agenda. This is gonna take a different cop than we had 20 years ago. They're working hard on that. For financial and economic offences, the establishment plan, as it has already been financed, provides for 1156 FTE. The next two years will be 300 fte, because we are currently at about 850 fte. For cybercrime there is also 300 FTE, added to 743 FTE for cyber. That two times 300 FTE is the 600 FTE that will be added in the next two years in this area. In the Peseta project, the National Police and a number of large banks have made provision over the past period to enable historical banking data to be advanced and provided more efficiently. See also the letter I sent to the Chamber today. In the meantime, major progress has been made by the police, together with the four major banks, ABN AMRO, ING, Rabobank and SNS. The aim is that these banks will provide digital data by the end of the first quarter 2016. Mr Van Oosten will be pleased to hear that. It is an important milestone, because it will bring about a significant reduction in the burden for the police. The large group of police officers Mr van Oosten pointed out, who still has to do manual work, can then focus on more important matters. That is not, of course, the case from one day to the next, as Mr Van Oosten understands. So the 75 fte he was talking about is just gonna do detective work. There is also agreement with the Minister of Finance and the Dutch Association of Banks. In the project Linksportal bank accounts will be fully automated in the long term the recovery, retrieval and provision of identifying banking data for detection and supervision. With all this, I think I am responding to the concern that Mr Van Oosten has rightly expressed. I'm gonna come back to the subject of the neighborhood agents. Mr Van der Staaij has asked a question about this. It is a subject on which, in the short time I have been active as a minister, I have had several exchanges of views with the Chamber. It is also a subject that the Chamber and I consider very important. I underlined this in the debate. I have looked closely at the legal text, Mr Van der Staaij's amendment and the explanatory statement. We agree that the starting point is that there is one district agent per 5,000 inhabitants. We also agree that my responsibility extends to the achievement of both the national standard and the unitary standard. The Chamber can always call me on that. However, we also agree that the division within the unit is a matter for the mayor, the chief prosecutor and the mayor of the region. We agree that there is not one district agent per 5,000 inhabitants everywhere. There could be good reasons for that. However, I also indicated in the debate that the mayor should be accountable to the city council. In the debate on the attacks in Paris, I stressed this once again. The fact that the division of units prior to the other division into one unit means that within the unit first the district agents must be divided and then the other staff in the primary police care. As a result of the concerns expressed by Mr Oskam and Mr Van der Staaij in particular, I should like to look again at how it works in practice. I will therefore discuss the division within the unit with the regional mayors in the next National Security and Police Consultation, especially with a view to a proper police function in all municipalities, as the explanatory statement of the amendment states. In the meantime, new insights may have emerged. For example, there are smaller municipalities with major challenges, such as refugee shelters. The question of whether the distribution still fits is justified. I will ask the Police Review Committee 2012 to consider the way in which Article 39 (1) is implemented in its final report. The Court is expected to receive the policy response to the first report of the evaluation committee this year. It was then called the Rinnooy Kan committee, but in the future it will be the Chicken Committee. In this response, I will take the commitment. Mrs Helder and Mr Bontes have once again asked for heavier weapons. I have already explained in the first term that we have a well-considered system. Officers on the street are subject to normal armament. Heavy armament applies to units that are specifically trained in it. These heavy units are ready and quick to deploy in the event of incidents. That also serves the security of agents. I am constantly being advised by experts on the system. As a result of attacks such as those in Paris, we are always looking at whether we should take other steps. I have already told Mr Bontes that I see no reason to take these steps now. That is what I am saying to Mrs Helder. I will give an appropriate opinion on the motion tabled by Mr Bontes on this subject. Mr Oskam was concerned about the possibility for police officers to take time off in December, due to a possible terrorist threat or, for example, the activities around old and new. He also wondered if there was any risk of extra costs due to overtime. In the first period, I said that I was not prepared to do so and that I would give the answer in the second period. It is not the case that policemen in a generic sense cannot take time off in December. The taking of leave is subject to the condition that the service allows it; that goes without saying of course. Leave applications are always assessed on an individual basis. This assessment shall be balanced, inter alia, against the context of topicality. In principle, overtime is compensated in time. This is also the healthiest way for the employees. People might be able to make a lot of money, but in the meantime more work than is sensible. That is why this is in principle regulated in this way. It's possible to compensate overtime in cash. Regular budgets are available for this. Mrs Helder asked in the first period when the examination of the declaration will be completed. The WODC investigation into declaration readiness and the motives for making or not making a declaration will be completed in the spring of 2016. The investigation, unlike Mrs Helder thought, is not delayed. After all, it was only in general consultation that I agreed with the Chamber on 14 April last. However, one thing is certain: it will come in the spring of next year. Mr Voordewind asked me when exactly the PMJ estimates will be drawn up and what is the situation. We could then see the impact of these PMJ estimates on the needs of justice. This is also linked to the motion on the case law tabled by a large number of members of the Chamber. The WODC provides these estimates in principle in mid-January. I refer to these estimates in the decision on the next year's budget. These estimates have so far been published annually on Prinsjesdag, both by the WODC and by the Cabinet, by means of an annex in the budget of the Ministry of Security and Justice. That is what has happened in recent years. The period from January to September is then used to carefully assess the consequences and to process them for all parties in the criminal justice chain. I heard this right now. This is also important because we have talked about what the PMJ estimates do for the financing of justice. It is therefore wise to provide earlier insight into the area that may arise in the case-law as a result of the expected decreasing volumes. In consultation with the WODC, I will consider to what extent this request can be fulfilled. I will inform the Chamber in writing. Mr Oskam asked about the passport measure: exactly which countries have agreed to withdraw passports? As a result of this question by Mr Oskam, I have already indicated in the first term that I will explore further the possibilities of passing passport data on to a second country. I'll inform the Chamber about the results of this investigation. Mr Oskam then asked Mr Oskam, and I thought that was a very good question which I discussed with the Minister there in Morocco. If everything goes well, it'll be this Monday. I will speak to him in detail Monday and Tuesday and will take this subject with me. If I have anything to say to the Chamber about this, I will not fail to do so. Mr Krol asked in the first time when the Court could receive the results of the inquiry into alarm notifications by vulnerable groups. This study will start soon and will be completed before the end of 2016. I will, of course, inform the Chamber of the results of this investigation. I come now to the point made by Mr Pechtold. I think it's okay to fix this for a while. Today we have talked about the budget for 2016 and further years. We have been able to give a tremendous boost to that budget. This means that in 2016 an investment of 310 million will be available for all known bottlenecks. This ultimately leads to a substantial investment of 250 million in the budget, of which 200 million is actually being invested. Of these, 138 million are earmarked for expenditure which we already know will come: the Wolfsen Commission, the police cao and the strengthening of detection. Together with Mr Pechtold and other parties, I note that there are investigations into other routes: police, equipment and personnel, including ICT; the case law, price fixing and estimates of a number of issues relating to quality improvement and the completion of the housing debate; and with the Public Prosecutor's Office, the outstretched hand that I have already spoken about. On top of that, the letter focused on the effects of the refugee problem on the police. The results of these pathways call for a further debate with the Chamber. It will also be necessary to discuss what we actually know about the Spring Note. I have promised that I will be combative and will make every effort to overcome these problems and that we will have a debate on them with the Chamber in due course. I would have said that because the media suggested that no extra money would go to the Justice Department. It is in confesso between all the parties here that some of these bottlenecks are likely to lead to the need for an additional investment in the Spring Note. That is also contained in the three motions which I shall be giving an opinion on in a moment's time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u205	After fifteen minutes of debate, I may be a little slow, but I was still thinking about the Moroccan Minister. It's not just about Morocco. I told the Minister to get on that call and put it back together. However, we also want to know how many requests will be made in the future. The Minister regularly informs us about the approach to jihadism. I would like him to include in this report how many requests he makes and how successful they are.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u206	I don't have a problem with that. We'll make those requests. As I have said in the past, there are a number of strong hooks and eyes to this, including in the field of the ECHR, but I will inform the Chamber. That has already been asked by Mr Oskam and Mr Omtzigt and I believe that this has already been promised.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u207	We debated for a very long time and finally tabled three motions for opposition to the Minister. We have indicated that not only should the Spring Paper be spoken about, but that sufficient resources must also be made available if there are any bottlenecks. We've all had our debates. We've indicated that we're seeing bottlenecks. The Minister himself has also indicated that there are bottlenecks. I want a clear commitment from the Minister that he will carry out these three motions and that he will not be on a closed stock exchange when the Spring Note is being processed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u208	As Mrs Kooiman knows, I am not alone in this. I can only find room in my own budget. I think we agree that the possibilities for this are reasonably exhausted. That means I'm dependent on the situation in spring. I am also dependent on the Minister of Finance and the other members of the cabinet. Under these conditions, which are known to Mrs Kooiman, I will, of course, carry out the motions. That's exactly the thrust of the letter. Maybe it's a good thing I'm getting that letter. It says, as the Finance Minister and I have written together, "On remaining challenges from the 2017 budget, such as the implementation of the criminal justice chain task set out in the budget, you will be informed at the appropriate moments in the budgetary process." That commitment was already in the letter, and I'm not going to take anything away from it, not an inch. A number of commitments are added on specific issues: justice, the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u209	Then I have understood the Minister correctly. The opposition has identified three major problems and has said what problems it sees. The Minister will examine this carefully and will not stand here with a closed scholarship in the handling of the Spring Note.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u210	The first part is certainly true, but for the last part I have just explained what the force field is like. Mrs. Kooiman knows that better than anyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u211	I welcome this reply from the Minister. We learn in the Chamber that in dealing with a law or a budget, which is actually also a law, what is being changed in the Chamber is part of the history of creation. I have now heard more than intentions in various words. The Minister is throwing all his political weight into the fight for this budget. I think that's an important line. When I look at recent times, I think it's also a turning point between the Chamber and the Ministry. These two rulers face an incredibly important challenge, and the Secretary of State will be facing financial problems in the near future, but if they are in this way, we will be able to raise together in these times of unrest. The Minister attaches his political weight to this. I think that is extremely important, because then I am sure that he will take the right decisions in the cabinet, especially with the Minister of Finance. I'm a little tall in dust, but I'd like to say the following. Maybe after the spring paper has been handled, we'll have a rest. That is important, because the opposition and the entire Chamber cannot yet see where the millions are all exactly. Combined with the active duty of information which I have heard several times in this debate, this is very important for my group, especially as regards those three jumping motions on court, prosecutor's office and police. I will try to convey this to fellow party members who are politically active in the Hague in a different way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u212	I am very grateful to Mr Pechtold for his commitment to the city council in The Hague. Who knows, the city of The Hague is willing to contribute to my budget as well! I come to two amendments, first of all the amended amendment to item No. 26 by Mr Van Nispen and co-signed by a wide range of members. On that amendment, I can leave the judgement to the Chamber, because it is in line with my initial commitment in respect of the Foundation's Consumer Disputes Committee. I have listened carefully to the Chamber and for that reason I leave the opinion on this amendment to the Chamber. The second amendment is that in part No. 27 members of Van Tongeren and Swinkels. That amendment proposes to remove a substantial amount of nearly 2 million ECU from the National Police budget. For this reason alone, we must note that this amendment is not entirely in line with the feelings of the vast majority of the Chamber, especially given that several parties, including D66, have expressed concern about the budget of the national police. I can say in advance that I cannot live with the proposal on coverage. Then, of course, it is also proposed to spend that money on something, and that is to the College of Human Rights. In my opinion, the financial evaluation at the College of Human Rights does not provide sufficient concrete basis for the allocation of additional funds to the College. The calculation of the college that would need 7.4 million is not substantiated. The proposed coverage is also not feasible. Moreover, it is said that all kinds of money would result from the expiry of the retention obligation. However, that is not the picture I have, because the providers keep data for their own operations and that also entails costs. With the six major providers, agreements have been made on the reimbursement of all the costs they incur for the detection, such as tapping and providing historical traffic data. This Agreement shall expire on 1 January 2017. The possible consequences of the removal of the retention obligation on the scale of progress will be taken into account in the negotiations on the continuation of the agreements. With that there is no cover and no need. I must therefore discourage the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u213	I want to see whether the Minister's intention is in principle to make the Human Rights College work properly. It has been merged not so long ago and the first evaluation has just been completed. Before that is discussed, including with the College itself, there is already a cut in the budget. It has been merged with what I understood from the College, the promise that the increase in tasks would not mean that it had to be found within its own budgets, but it seems that there is still a fallout. If the Minister does not agree with the coverage, I am prepared to look for another one, which may be able to support the Minister's approval. With The Hague as the city of international law, we still want to have a high college that can handle itself reasonably and undertake the necessary activities.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u214	I have, of course, also discussed this extensively with the College. My conclusion that there is no need to increase the budget has not changed after that conversation. I'm getting to the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u215	I have a request. Would you do that as soon as possible? I think everything has already been said in great detail. There are colleagues who still have a whole budget to deal with. I see that Mrs Van Tongeren has another question about the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u216	The first question was whether the Minister could share the general objective. I have a second question. As we have looked at it, coverage comes from undermining what is happening, because the legal basis has fallen out of it. It does not mean that there will be less blue on the street, it will not be at the expense of the capacity of the police. So that's not where it came from. I believe that the official name in the budget is 'flexible others' which would indeed fall free. We have tried to check this as closely as possible within the possibilities we had. We think it's a possible cover. Maybe the Minister doesn't agree, but there is cover.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u217	So I just said there's no cover, because those charges don't go free. I also disagree with the premise that it would be necessary. That is why I am maintaining the detachment of the amendment to item No. 27, but I congratulate Mrs Van Tongeren on the ingenuity she has shown.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u218	Mrs van Tongeren, you may ask one last question because it is an amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u219	Would the Minister perhaps put on paper for me why there is no undermining of that? We tried to figure it out. Here's what I find. The Minister says it's not true. Then I'd like to understand why what I'm wearing wouldn't be right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u220	If a member of the Chamber asks that in this particular case, I can comply with it. I will also put the same text I have just spoken on the need for money on paper. In addition, I would also point out that the budget of the National Police is not the budget where no objective can be found for any failure. There's always something to come up with to spend the money.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u221	You'd write that down. I would ask you to provide the motions with a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u222	I shall now make a number of motions for resolutions which I shall discuss very briefly at the request of the President. I hope the Members won't blame me for that. In the motion-Kooiman c.s. in piece No. 28 the Government is invited to provide the spring note with sufficient resources for the primary tasks of the police. This motion was tabled by Mrs Kooiman and is supported by many other Members. I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. In the motion- Van Oosten c.s. in piece No. 30 the government is invited to make the financial impact resulting from existing investigations clear as early as possible, so that priority can be given to this in the 2017 budget, if necessary. This motion was tabled primarily by Mr Van Oosten. I consider the motion to support policy and leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. In the motion in part No. 31 members of Mr Van Oosten and Mr Oskam are invited to amend the administrative instruments to enable the mayor to close down buildings and houses. I have answered the questions. I'll leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. I will see what is needed when the motion is adopted.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u223	You may only name the number. That's enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u224	The motion in part No. 34 is about justice. I am very pleased that it includes the phrase 'without funding any empty space'. I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u225	Of course, I'm very happy about that, because that's what we all want. But then there is still something about the 20 million that was in the Minister's letter. Mr President, I see that you want to cut me off. Just give me a minute, because it's important to justice. The people who work there want to know, and so do I.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u226	I don't doubt that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u227	Very briefly!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u228	But there's been a lot of interruptions. I'm really strict.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u229	You may be harsh, but I have a very short question. It's about the 20 million that's in the letter. The Minister said that that's for KEI. KEI stands for Quality and Innovation, but most people at KEI think about the digitisation project. The CDA, D66 and the SP would like the professional standard of justice to continue. So how are we supposed to describe the 20 million? What's for what?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u230	That question has already been asked. I refer you to the Acts for the answer. I have gone into this in detail. The quality research will come in spring. That's what I said. The motion-Oskam c.s. in piece No. 35, about juvenile criminals, I consider to be policy support. I'll leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. In the motion-Oskam c.s. in piece No. 37 the Government is invited to inform the Chamber by police station of the consequences of the planned closure. We have talked a lot about this and there have been several motions tabled by Mr Oskam. I've had to dissuade them all, and I'm doing the same with this motion. It is extremely impractical and impossible to implement. It is not necessary, because we have ten years to look at it carefully and quietly. I therefore advise against the adoption of this motion. The motion-Oskam/Van der Staaij in part No. 38 is about Scalda College. I really think I should discourage the adoption of this motion. If the National Police chooses to make a number of efficiency gains in the context of good agreements with regional training colleges, it cannot be that the Chamber adopts a motion in respect of one of them in order to do it differently. For that reason alone, I must discourage the motion. Then I will come to the motion for a resolution on part No. 40, about the divorce challenge. I would ask Mr Recourt to hold that motion, as I said in my first term, until after the general consultation on 27 January. Then we have the debate on this. If Mr Recourt does not do so, I cannot really say that the motion supports policy, because the policy must be made during that general consultation on 27 January.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u231	If the motion is put to the vote, you now advise against its adoption, but your advice is to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u232	Yeah, because I'm guessing the motion could be policy support. Then I come to the Marcouch/Tellegen motion on the Salafists. I need to be careful on this point. If I may explain the motion as an appeal for the Public Prosecutor's Office to take action if, in his opinion, the law provides for the possibility of banning Salafist organizations because of the salafistic element, I see the motion as a policy support. If the proposers want to re-examine Salafist organizations, on top of the research already done by my colleague Asscher, I must advise against the adoption of the motion. However, I see Mr Marcouch nodding to confirm that the motion is intended as I explained it at first. Then it is a motion on which I can leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u233	The first explanation indicates what is meant by the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u234	In the motion-Pechtold c.s. in piece No. 43 The 2016 Spring Note calls on the government to release additional funds if new tasks are assigned to the Public Prosecutor's Office in the field of terrorism and cybercrime. I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. The motion-Pechtold c.s. in piece No. 44 is about an alternative cover for 50 million. It will not surprise Mr Pechtold that I have to discourage the adoption of that motion. It has been a joint choice of the cabinet to make a contribution in this way. The precise distribution will be incorporated into the Spring Note, as I said in the first instalment. That is the time to discuss this with the Chamber. There is no doubt that everyone will have taken good note of Mr Pechtold's comments on this point. With the motion-Pechtold c.s. in piece No. 45, about the settlements, I have a technical problem. The motion states that coverage for the 310 million euros should not lead to a perverse incentive. That perverse stimulus could occur at 100 million out of 310 million. If the motion is meant to be so, the motion supports policy and I leave the judgment to the Chamber, for the simple reason that I myself would not like it if there were a perverse incentive. That is why finance is lagging behind at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u235	I see Mr Pechtold nodding in agreement, so the motion may be explained in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u236	Then I come to the motion-Pechtold c.s. in piece No. 46, on the ICT master plan. My first feeling was to discourage this motion, because I do not want extra work to be done on the precarious issue of regulating ICT. But after that, I discussed it with my officials and noted the following. As part of the implementation of the recommendations of the Hoekstra Committee and the VPS programme, there are experimental gardens in Rotterdam and Groningen. I'm not gonna set up any new testing grounds, I'm gonna tell Mr. Pechtold. If I understand the motion in such a way that a master plan for the whole chain is a logical follow-up to that development, I can leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u237	Once again, I see Mr Pechtold nodding in agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u238	In the Pechtold motion in part No. 47, on the NFI, the government is asked to allow for incidental additional funding for the Dutch Forensic Institute. There are two problems with this motion. Firstly, the motion is not covered. Secondly, the motion is not necessary, because on top of the budget of the NFI I hope I will make 5 million extra available, along with your Chamber. It actually looks like an open-ended scheme, because as soon as something happens, I will have to provide funding. I can't, and that's why I have to discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u239	The motion-Pechtold c.s. in piece No. 47 is not recommended. Mr Pechtold has a question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u240	Not for nothing did I write "materially elevated." We discussed the MH17 in this debate. Then the Minister said: 'Of course that happens in such a case.' I'm really talking about a substantial increase. We saw at the MH17 that vacation days died and the workload was high. I am talking about a substantial increase. Of course, we all hope that this kind of mega-jobs for the NFI will not be done, but when I gave the MH17 as an example, the Minister said: yes, of course. If something like the MH17 or anything similar happens, you have to take it with you throughout the Security Research Council and in everything you finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u241	That's what I did. Additional investments have been made in the NFI in connection with the MH17, to make these additional things possible. This also applies to investigations on more complex issues that have been deported. I understand very well what Mr Pechtold is saying, but I must nevertheless discourage the motion. Then the motion-Pechtold c.s. in piece No. 48 on shoplifting. I understand that motion in such a way that, before the votes on the budget, I will inform the Chamber of any reconsideration of the points raised in the motion. For that reason, I shall leave the House to decide on the motion. The Voordewind c.s. motion in piece No. 49 asks me to keep the fight against trafficking in human beings and trafficking in human beings at the same level and to make more resources available for that purpose. I'm gonna have to dissuade that motion. Capacity to detect human trafficking and trafficking in human beings is, by definition, scarce. This always requires choices by the authorities together. That is also the basis of our system. As I explained to Mr Voordewind, additional money is not going to help in the short term either. That is why I must advise against this motion, but I take good note of Mr Voordewind's remark. I hope he has also taken good note of my comments that both human trafficking and smuggling are extremely important priorities of the government, of the National Police and of the Public Prosecutor's Office. Then I come to the motion-Van Tongeren/Van Nispen on part No. 53.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u242	I would like to make one more comment on my motion on item No. 49. The operative part of the decision states "to release funds if necessary'. So the motion isn't very digital. Of course, there is still a weighing moment at the 2016 Spring Note.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u243	I understand that, but Mr Voordewind does mean the motion in such a way that these two things should remain at the same level. I just can't do that, given the seriousness of human trafficking. I have also explained that we all have an interest in this. I should also like to look at the State Secretary's debate on the refugee issue. Those smugglers of human beings must be stopped and punished. That's the real priority right now, and that's why I don't recommend that motion. The Van Tongeren/Van Nispen motion in part No. 53 is ahead of the Wolfsen Commission. That's why I'm dissuading the motion. Then the motion-Van Tongeren/Swinkels in part No. 54. That motion says the same thing as the amendment. I did not recommend the amendment, and I will also have to advise against the motion. I have already talked extensively about the railway police, where the Van Tongeren motion in part No. 55 over. There is no need for this motion. There is a great deal of agreement between the NS, the police unions and the representatives of the cabin staff. Good agreements have been made, including with local authority. I'm gonna have to advise against that motion. There's no reason. The motion-Van der Staaij c.s. in piece No. 56 on the design of mental care in the police, I see as support for policy. I'll leave the verdict on that motion to the Chamber. The motion-Van der Staaij c.s. in piece No. 58 concerns victim-oriented work. I have no difficulty in informing Mr Van der Staaij and the Chamber about this. I consider the motion to support policy and leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. The motion-Krol c.s. in piece No. 60 calls for the phasing-out of subsidies to the SGC. I think Mr Krol has missed the fact that I have just left an amendment to the opinion of the Chamber, that I have already promised it in the letters I have sent to the Chamber and that I have repeated that commitment orally. For that reason, I must advise against this motion. There's no reason to file that motion, let alone consider it. I therefore ask Mr Krol to withdraw that motion, but of course he is entirely responsible for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u244	If I can understand the Minister in such a way that the amendment applies not only for the coming year but also for the following years, then I am happy to keep it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u245	The amendment is due to take place in 2016 and, of course, it will be debated in the 2017 budget, but that also means that I will have to find cover for it. This motion doesn't provide for that either. That's why I have to discourage the motion. President. - The next item is the motion for a resolution by Mr Kuzu, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u246	I'm gonna take a look at Mr. Krol and see if he's gonna take his motion. I see he wants to think about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u247	I was at Mr Kuzu's motion asking for concrete proposals to combat ethnic profiling in the police. This brings me to a cry of hearts. It's like I didn't say anything about that. I have talked about this extensively. The Corps leadership has already talked about it in detail. Mr Marcouch has rightly been calling for this attention for years. I must therefore discourage this motion. With the same justification, I reject Mr Kuzu's motion on discrimination in the police. There is a great deal of attention being paid to it. Everyone is convinced that something must be done. This motion has no function whatsoever. In his next motion, Mr Kuzu asked for the fines for traffic offences to be reduced. It's too bad he's not here himself. I really wanted to ask him what he thinks of the function of a traffic ticket. There are dangerous things happening and then you must have a suitable punishment for that. The Chamber agrees. That's why I'm dissuading the motion. Moreover, there is no provision for the EUR 500 million cover that would be needed for this. In his motion, Mr Bontes asks for item No. 64 to stop the current reorganisation of the National Police. This motion is contrary to the opinion of the Police Review Committee 2012. No one wants to go back to the old system except Mr. Bontes. That's why I have to discourage the motion. Mr Bontes has asked for pressure to be put on the government of Turkey to respond to requests for legal aid on the Demmink issue. I advise the motion because it is factually incorrect. In his motion in part No. 67 asks Mr Bontes to reduce traffic fines. I have the same problem with that as with Mr Kuzu's motion on this subject. There is no cover and it is not a sensible motion either. For those reasons, I advise against the motion. Mr Bontes has once again tabled his motion on heavier arms. I have already answered that question, also in the direction of Mrs Helder. I advise against this motion. Mr. Chairman. Thank you for this opportunity to have done so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u248	Thank you. You have clearly been pleased to defend your budget. I give the floor to the Secretary of State for Justice to respond to the remaining motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u249	Mr. Chairman. I have a very small list of questions to answer. I will not repeat the list of countries mentioned by Mr Azmani. I can reassure him. Some of these countries are on the list of safe countries. In the report we will provide the other countries he mentioned with an opinion on whether they should be placed on the list of safe countries. I can endorse Mr Azmani's heartfelt cry that more powers or courses may be needed to put greenery at the border if it is to be necessary. If that's necessary and necessary, we will. Mr Marcouch asked for trusted persons to be appointed in asylum seekers' centres. My view is that, in principle, any COA employee should be able to act as a trusted person. That's what we're investing in. They are all trained to recognise such situations and to deal with people who want to raise a sensitive issue with great difficulty and in great confidence. I also refer to the covenant that has been concluded between the COA and the COC. It states that it is essential for residents to be able to talk to a trusted person about their situation and their fears and that the COA staff can play the role of a trusted person. We will continue to guarantee that. Then there's the motions. I advise the Gasthuizen motion in part No. 29. I do not believe that the cabinet policy that sees reception in the region as a standard and only at the invitation of the UN provide reception in the Netherlands goes against the treaty. This removes the need for the motion. So I advise against this motion. In the motion in part No. 32 the government is invited to put something on the agenda during the Presidency. The role of the Presidency is not that a country can set the European agenda for six months. It is a serving Presidency. To anyone who regrets that and would have liked the cabinet to run the tent for six months, I can say that in that case 27 times six months would do so, which would make us less happy. Sounds like a good deal to me. I would advise against the motion, also because, according to the directive, the status of displaced persons applies to a situation which is suddenly arising. You can't call it in if you think it's politically desirable. The motion in part No. 33 I also advise against. It's not taboo. The argument for the Presidency also applies to this motion. Furthermore, the adaptation of the Refugee Convention is not taboo, but it is not an end in itself. If it is necessary for a practical solution, it is negotiable. If a practical solution can be found without it, we should not cloud it with a discussion that is unnecessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u250	So?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u251	So I advise against the motion in part no. 33. The motion in part No. 36 has different elements. Part of it is policy support, where it is about keeping on chasing people who still have an open sentence and tracking them down intensively. The other part of the motion asks for the limitation periods to be extended. I notice they've been extended quite a bit. I have a whole list here, but I have such an impression that it will be appreciated if I do not mention it. So we have already had a lot of extensions. If the Court considers that we need to extend these limitation periods even further than has already been done, then we are talking about deadlines that run in the 26 years I am prepared to see if there is any reason to do so. So I'll leave the verdict to the Chamber. Then I come to the motion on part No. 39. I may, of course, point out that maintaining it may lead to a later judgment Chamber. That means I'd have to dissuade her right now if she wasn't arrested. I will inform the Chamber in writing in the first quarter of next year about the recent ruling, but also about the cases that have already taken place before. I'd be happy to explain to the Chamber what direction of solution I'm looking for. Should she then want another specific, this can be done. Maybe we'll come a long way together in a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u252	I am not allowed to hold this motion myself, but Mr Recourt has already announced that he will hold it before the vote on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u253	That's the motion in part No. 39?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u254	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u255	If he says so, I'll take responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u256	If that is the case, I would ask on behalf of Mr Recourt to hold this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u257	At the request of Mr Recourt, I propose his motion (34300-VI, No. 39). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u258	On the motion in part No. Forty-two years we have had a lot of exchanges of views. I still do not see that this is the solution to the problem. We disagree on that. I'm gonna keep dissuading her. The motion in part No. Fifty, I'm telling you, too. We're just disagreeing on this. I see what Mr Voordewind wants, but I see no reason to relax the conditions for after-travel and make it even easier than is the case on the basis of the sound policy we have now. Also the motion in part No. 51, I advise. What I've done is to break down barriers. However, this does not mean that there are no more demands. There's no new barrier coming up. If I no longer demand, for a certain category of people, that they show passports or a birth certificate, they will have to make it plausible in another way that they fall under that category. I do not see that as a new barrier, but as a more flexible handling of the requirement that is already there and should remain there. So it will not lead to the same thing as before, but it is not the case that there are no more demands at all. The motion in part No. 52 I also advise against. We've got resettlement now. That works the way it works. I do not see why we need to add more types of admission to that. Trafficking in human beings is often not used for the first flight, but then, to flee from a safe place to a desired destination. This is something we need to fight, especially by picking up the smugglers and making sure that it stops traveling. The motion in part No. 57 is about pilots. If I may interpret her as a request to speak with my colleague from Social Affairs and Employment to see whether he sees the usefulness and therefore additional financial opportunities to support the integration of ex-convicts, including through the European Social Fund, I can see her as a support for policy and leave it to the Chamber. I don't have any resources for that right now. If I have to interpret her differently, it's gonna be difficult.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u259	It is precisely because of what is going on in the judicial context, but it is also actually about helping groups with a great deal of distance from the labour market, that I would argue in favour of it, and I understand that the Secretary of State is sympathetic to it in order to see how labour integration funds can be used for this purpose and that Justice is also committed to doing so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u260	Sure. In that variant, the judgment is Chamber. I'll come to the motion in part No. 59. I'm gonna have to dissuade him now. I could also imagine her being apprehended. For me, it is really important to consider this motion in relation to how much support there is for extending the naturalisation period from five to seven years. Then it fits very nicely together. The discussion of that subject is foreseen for very soon after the beginning of 2016. As far as the government is concerned, and as far as the Chamber is concerned, that is possible. I can therefore imagine looking after the debate to see whether this motion is appropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u261	The Secretary of State says: let us discuss this further in the context of that bill. I agree with that. That's why I want to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u262	At the request of Mr Van der Staaij, I propose his motion (34300-VI, No. 59). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u263	If I haven't forgotten anything, I'm done now, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u264	I can hardly imagine that you have forgotten anything, Secretary of State, after this long discussion of the budget. I don't see anyone walking to the interrupting microphone anymore either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-26-tweedekamer-16.u265	We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday and on Thursday we will vote on the amendments and the legislative proposal. I thank the directors for coming to the Chamber and I thank the Members of Parliament for their patience.
