ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u2	Mr. Chairman. On Friday, the Chamber received a kind of final offer from the Cabinet in the form of a fourth letter of amendment to the 2016 Tax Plan. For structuralally around 500 million is being shifted. It is good that we can debate this now. In the letter of amendment, the cabinet draws its own plan with the intention, and apparently in the conviction, to do sufficient justice to all the wishes of the Chamber. Let it be clear that the cabinet is completely inadequate in meeting the wishes of 50PLUS. There has indeed been some opening-up for the elderly, but as far as we are concerned it is totally inadequate. The €83 reduction in the elderly discount introduced by the 2015 Tax Plan is reversed for €54 in the letter of amendment. This has not even reversed the previous deterioration in purchasing power, let alone the possibility of an improvement in purchasing power. The proposed purchasing power repair involves a structural sum of 100 million. 50PLUS acknowledges that this is a nice amount, but it is not enough to meet our reasonable wishes. I would like to recall the passage from the note following the report of the 2016 Tax Plan. On page 9, following a question from me, a breakdown is given of the occasional and structural advantages and disadvantages of pensioners, especially as a result of this tax plan. In this we can read that for 2016 one time, therefore, there is no structural funding, I would stress that EUR 900 million has been allocated to top-zero purchasing power policy for 61% of pensioners in 2016. For 39% of pensioners, that is not possible. The passage concludes with a full recognition of the cabinet that the elderly, largely as a result of the 2016 Tax Plan, remain with a financial disadvantage of structurally 400 million. This structural disadvantage is due to the reduction in the elderly discount following the occasional increase in 2015, the reduction in the care allowance, the cut in the rent allowance, the increase in the reduced IAB rate and the abolition of the elderly allowance. Even with the structural extra of 100 million from the fourth letter of amendment, the elderly are still left with a structural disadvantage of 300 million. There is no real recovery in purchasing power, let alone a proportional and structural share for older people in the 5 billion in burden relief. That has always been the bet of 50PLUS. This is the reason for 50PLUS simply to put the amendment to the vote on the one-off increase in the old age reduction. The same applies to our amendment to abolish the elderly allowance. Is the Secretary of State prepared to give our amendments a positive opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u3	Mr. Chairman. The many hours of tax-plan debate did not prove sufficient to proceed to votes last week. The coalition has heard the opposition's proposals and has chosen to amend the bill itself with the fourth letter of amendment. The CDA's commitment was always very clear. We welcome the 5 billion reduction in charges, which we have been asking for for years. At the same time, improvements were possible in the case of earners and the elderly. We also wanted to remove the risky box 3 plan from the Tax Plan and treat it independently. Therefore, there is still a CDA amendment to maintain the elderly allowance. There is also still an amendment to strengthen the position of the single earners. That is an update of Mr Dijkgraaf's amendment, taking into account the letter of amendment. Contrary to the letter of amendment, the amendment of SGP, ChristenUnion, CDA and SP provides the prospect of a majority for the 2016 Tax Plan in the Upper Chamber. Is the Secretary of State still prepared to accept this amendment after the definitive withdrawal of D66? So far, we have seen in the debates on the Tax Plan that the paper jobs of the CPB were more important than the principle of the carrying capacity of our income tax. Fortunately, the Secretary of State does not agree with the wish of some parties in the Chamber to make the difference between one and two-earners, which soon amounts to €8,000 on the same gross income, even greater. They do not see that there is a large group of earners who do want to work, but cannot work because of illness or disability. In the letter of amendment we recognize ourselves in the increase in family allowances, the structural increase in the elderly discount, the exemption for the mineralogic and metallurgical industries, the increase in the allowance for parents with a disabled child (the TOG-plus), and the possibility of using the increased grant exemption over several years. Let me be absolutely clear on behalf of the CDA. We want to enable 5 billion relief. If we had an absolute majority as a party, the plan would have been different. But without this Tax Plan, many groups of Dutch people are declining in purchasing power. The plan contains a very substantial reduction in the burden and meets our wishes, not everything, but a very large part of the 5 billion. I would like to say to the parties who have made all the burdens possible in recent years: after all the sacrifices made in recent years, the Netherlands is obliged to opt for relief now that it can. On the other hand, there is a shift in the taxation of gas and electricity. We still have a number of questions about this shift, as we have not had much time to discuss it. Did the Secretary of State investigate the effects of the slide? Which companies and sectors are particularly affected and what does this increase mean for an ordinary SME in a large business premises, for example with a workshop or offices? That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the fourth letter of amendment contains a significant shift in energy taxation between natural gas and electricity;]] [[noting that the effects of this shift have not yet been sufficiently reflected in particular for the gas-intensive manufacturing industry, recreation, agriculture and horticulture and for the part of SMEs dependent on natural gas for its operations;]] [[noting that the reduction in the Aof premium offers little compensation for these companies and that there are better possibilities for compensation;]] [[calls on the Government to reflect the effects of the shift in the energy tax between natural gas and electricity and to submit to the Court better possibilities for compensation to come into effect in 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34302-87]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u4	This should include the EIA, MIA and I and M schemes, as well as the lists associated with them. The coalition parties have taken a step forward: there is now an amendment of listening only during the WHO.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u5	Mr Omtzigt rightly expressed a concern, but should the requested research be completed before 2016? Or can he imagine that at a later stage something could happen to compensate, if that were necessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u6	I hope the investigation can be completed as soon as possible. I deliberately did not put 'before 31 December' on the motion, because I understand that it may not work within five weeks. I mentioned the possibility of adding cases to the EIA and the MIA lists. We can do that in February, too. When the survey is completed in January and shows that it can be an incentive for certain companies or pools to become sustainable, we hope that these things can start in 2016. Maybe we can do that in February or March. I hope that we do not have to wait until 1 January 2017.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u7	In contrast to the Christian Union amendment, the letter of amendment does affect greenhouse horticulture. Does the CDA agree that greenhouse horticulture is subject to higher gas prices?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u8	We were not in favour of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u9	This means that it is not a decisive argument for Mr Omtzigt to make a different assessment in the vote on the Tax Plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u10	This is not the most beautiful piece of the Tax Plan, but it is not a decisive argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u11	Is it then a consideration for the CDA Group to come up with an amendment to exclude greenhouse horticulture? So far we have always been working together on this dossier, I think. The greenhouse horticulture is incredibly difficult, and it gets 5 cents in taxes. We can't do that with each other, can we?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u12	I'll consider it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u13	Thank you. We will certainly support that and take it into consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u14	Now the greenhouse growers in the Netherlands know exactly what they have in the CDA! The CDA had three tough demands to vote in favour of the Tax Plan. First of all, box 3 had to get out. That's not gonna happen. Secondly, something had to be done for the elderly. Part of that happens, because the old-age allowance is still missing. Finally, there was a demand about the breadwinners. Is the four party breadwinner's amendment a condition for voting in favour of the Tax Plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u15	We hope that that householder's amendment will be adopted. That is why we have deliberately submitted it to this Chamber. This was also the request I made in my first paragraph. However, we have said that we agree with the plan and that we would have liked three improvements. Some of our wishes have been met in relation to parents with children and older people. As far as box 3 is concerned, I found in the Chamber that we were really the only party to do so. Unfortunately, we only have 13 seats. The other 137 would have lifted the plan by the Chamber unchanged. Yes, I'd like to get it out, but it doesn't matter politically at all, because it's not going to be treated anyway. So I do reconcile with this. I would, however, like to ask the Secretary of State what the difference is for, for example, the breadwinners, the elderly or other groups if the Tax Plan is not adopted and so we are left with the old tax rates. I'm definitely interested in that equation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u16	Finally, Mr Van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u17	It was said last time: the CDA is through the pump. Of the three requirements, half of them remain, and that is the structuralization of the elderly discount. Nothing happens to the elderly allowance, to the breadwinners and to box 3. Now it's the horticulturalists' turn.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u18	It is quite simple: the PVV has put on the table zero amendments, made zero counter-proposals for anything and has chosen to talk about other people's plans for 35 hours in this debate. It's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u19	No, no, no. This debate has been held in detail and I hear the same arguments repeated over and over again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u20	Just a brief remark: the PVV wants elections and the CDA wants to continue with this cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u21	That's what you said last time. The same applies to Mr Omtzigt. I suggest that you continue with your speech, Mr Omtzigt, and that you also conclude.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u22	Mr President, this is legislation. I've got about a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u23	This isn't unlimited.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u24	One time I must agree with Mr Henk Krol. There has been a change of 500 million. I do not find it strange that I should ask for three minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u25	You used it a long time ago. That's why I'm saying you're going to finish.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u26	Mr. Chairman. There is one amendment from the coalition parties. It is good that the cooperating general practitioners are exempted, but I do not think the coverage is fair. I hope that colleagues will be able to find alternative cover for this. For the time being, this is the last debate on the Tax Plan in the Lower House. It is a plan that actually reduces the burden, unlike the tax plans of recent years; let us realize that. I therefore ask this Secretary of State what the effects will be if the burden reduction does not go ahead, both legally and in terms of purchasing power, in particular for earners, the elderly and workers. For the CDA, it is important to focus on what the route will be if there is actually a First Chamber majority voting against this relief. What are the legal consequences and consequences for the Treasury and the Tax Administration if this Tax Plan is voted down? Will the 5 billion be released acutely for repayment of public debt if this Tax Plan is not adopted by the First Chamber before 1 January? I noticed that the D66 colleagues and the SP have put forward proposals in the media and on Twitter that they have not made in the Chamber. I hope, therefore, that Mr Bashir will explain the joint plan that the SP and D66 had, and from D66 to their new job plan, which has been explained in the back chambers but may also be explained in the front room.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u27	Mr. Chairman. We have debated the Tax Plan for more than 35 hours in recent weeks. It was noteworthy that, after the debate had ended, last Friday we received a package of measures worth EUR 525 million. After we have had two WHOs and two plenary debates and after we have come up with various proposals ourselves, the cabinet has changed its mind and has come up with a new package of measures. The very first question that comes to our mind is why this could not have happened sooner. Why did the cabinet not come to the understanding, after the debate had ended, that things had to be different? If this is now a careful piece of legislation, I ask the Secretary of State. With his amendments, the Secretary of State has cycled through many of our amendments, which now require rewriting. The question is also what new insights the cabinet has come to; insights it has not had before. Why couldn't these new insights be given during the debate? Then there are a few substantive comments. What have been the considerations to make the choices that have now been made? Who has been discussed, what has been discussed and why has the Secretary of State finally come to these choices and not to others? We also want to know the impact of the measures now being announced on purchasing power. Which people are getting better and which people are getting worse? In particular, I want to know what's going on with the non-working people. Are they moving forward or not? Or, despite a package of EUR 525 million, does nothing change for the non-working people? We notice that the cabinet is pretending to be doing something about this package for the elderly. Mr Krol mentioned all the measures very clearly just now. We see that the elderly are still falling by EUR 300 million in the overall package. For example, the elderly discount went down by €83 in the bill, while it goes up by €54 in the letter of amendment we received last Friday. Thus, the elderly still suffer almost €30. In this way, I can take a number of measures. The question is therefore what the cabinet intends to achieve with this package. If the cabinet really wants to change things, it could have accepted some of the amendments tabled. We also see a number of positive things. For example, mineralogical and metallurgical processes, as in other countries in Europe, are excluded from energy taxation. In our amendment we had very good cover for that. We wanted to get the money from the big consumers, who are now barely paying for energy taxes. To our surprise, however, the cabinet chooses not to green the Tax Plan, but to degreen it. In the Tax Plan we see that SMEs in particular are going to pay for the increase in charges. In this connection, I am thinking of the pools. I ask the Secretary of State why the tax on swimming pools should be raised. What are the other consequences? I cannot imagine an increase of EUR 700 million in the taxation of energy for SMEs without major consequences. We have made a number of proposals. For example, we have proposed that the border between the third and fourth writings should not be extended, as the cabinet wishes. This involves more than EUR 800 million. That amount now goes, if it is up to the cabinet, to the highest incomes. We believe that this money can be better used both to create jobs and to give everyone an income boost. This also stimulates the economy. Why didn't the Cabinet look at that variant? Why is the cabinet not prepared to opt for social and green, with which a majority can also be obtained in the First Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u28	At the end of the debate, the SP indicated on Twitter that a joint proposal of D66 and SP could be chosen. That's very constructive, because the Secretary of State was looking for 17 First Chamber seats. Is that still a secret plan? We have debated for 30 hours here, but we have not seen any joint amendment or a joint note from those parties. Or can the SP make that plan public?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u29	We have put forward plans for this. I have tabled a proposal on behalf of the SP not to extend the border between the third and fourth disks and to use that money differently. For example, we wanted to reduce the load in the first disc. We have seen from the D66 Group a similar proposal to use the money from the third to the fourth disc to increase the working discount and for other things. I have also discussed this here in the debate with the Secretary of State: there are variations that come together, why is the cabinet not prepared to look at those variants as well? We have not had any reaction from the cabinet pointing in that direction. We can put things together and put civil servants to work to make amendments, but it ends when there is no willingness to opt for social and green.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u30	Finally, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u31	So it turns out there was no joint plan. There were things that went in the same direction, but the SP never had a plan with D66 at any time: this is what we're going to do. The SP suggests that in the press, but says here: it went the same way, the cabinet should. Was there a joint plan or wasn't there a joint plan? I'd like a yes or no answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u32	It's very simple. The SP has been constructively involved and has made proposals. I note that there are three parties who, although in the First Chamber, can provide a majority for the cabinet and have plans that are very similar. I was prepared to move on behalf of the SP Group. Then you can think of some of the money we are now using to lower the first disc in our amendment. We could have used this to increase the working discount. However, I have received no response from the cabinet at all. I have also brought it in to my colleagues in the Chamber, but I have not heard any response from them either. I note that we are prepared to move, but the cabinet is not prepared to find a majority.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u33	Mr. Chairman. Fourteen months ago, the cabinet began a search for a real tax reform. For this, 5 billion lubricant oil was available. This would reduce the burden on labour by 15 billion, and that would create 100,000 jobs for us. Today I have to say that this ambition of the cabinet has not been fulfilled. Two thirds of the jobs promised appear to have evaporated, and even those 15 billion in lower labour costs have not come at all. Then we find it irresponsible to borrow year in, year out of 5 billion when we still have a deficit of almost EUR 9 billion per year, the public debt is still well over 60% and the interest charges alone are almost EUR 8 billion per year despite the low interest rates. D66 was also willing to invest 5 billion as a lubricant for tax reform, but one that leads to much more jobs, much more greening and really lower labour costs. That is why we have made all kinds of proposals. The burden on labour fell by more than 10 billion and the number of jobs could reach 75,000. But unfortunately, we found no support from the Cabinet, the VVD, the Labour Party and the CDA for those plans, which lead to more jobs and less greening. We have debated it for 35 hours. Friday led to the letter of amendment: a note that encrypts nearly 500 million euros, but a change that does not lead to additional jobs, not one additional job
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u34	Do I understand that Mr Van Weyenberg prefers to continue with greening and not to have 35,000 additional jobs, so that greening is more important? I'm just trying to get some clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u35	I'd be happy to clarify that. We want labour costs to fall by more than EUR 10 billion in total. We do this by reforming and greening. This is good for the environment and it offers the opportunity to reduce the burden on labour very substantially, but unfortunately, in the cabinet and also in Mrs Neppérus, there is apparently no willingness to ensure that we go to 75,000 jobs instead of 35,000 jobs. I'm sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u36	Mrs Neppérus, finally!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u37	There is already quite a greening in the piece that is now on the table, the letter of amendment. So I understand, if I have also listened to Mr Van Weyenberg's group chairman correctly, that it means zero extra jobs if the plan does not go ahead. Well, we'll write that down.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u38	This is remarkable, isn't it? The cabinet does not seem to be able to find support and in apparently some panic the coalition points the finger at all other parties. It is now D66, but it may also happen to colleagues from the SGP, GroenLinks and the Christian Union. But the cabinet rules, Mrs Neppérus, and has spent 34 hours trying to gain acceptance. The observation is that the cabinet, first with the eyes on the three Christian parties and later on on D66, lost most of its support during that period. Unlike Mrs Neppérus and her party, we do not support the Tax Plan if we believe that there is not enough relief. The VVD has done the same in the past. Then there was a motion of censure from the group chairman Rutte. D66 will not do that, but as the VVD did earlier when the burden on labour fell too little, D66 will do so in the vote on this Tax Plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u39	Go on!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u40	Well, zero jobs. We'll know.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u41	No, Mrs. Neppérus. Mr Van Weyenberg, please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u42	I note that there is some degree of panic in the coalition banks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u43	Go on!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u44	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u45	It is an historic moment that D66 does not vote in favour of the Tax Plan. Does this mean the end of the constructive tolerance that D66 has been doing for three years?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u46	D66 is always willing to do business with the cabinet to achieve its own ambitions. That was an additional 0.5 billion in education every year in the budget agreement. I'm still extremely proud of that. Here too, we are ready to talk to the cabinet at any time about other tax plans which do lead to much more work, less pollution and much lower workload at work.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u47	Finally, Mr Van Dijck?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u48	What does Mr Van Weyenberg say if this Tax Plan fails? Is he saying that the cabinet has been ruled out and that we should go to the ballot box or do we continue to muddle for a year and a half with a semi-tolerant partner like D66?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u49	As far as I am concerned, this is particularly an appeal to the Cabinet to look again at how it can gain support for a plan which is ambitious and which leads to more jobs, less pollution and much lower labour costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u50	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u51	The plan that is now in place, the letter of amendment............................................................................................................................................................................................... As I have just said, we are always prepared to talk to the cabinet about plans that create more jobs, less pollution and much lower labour costs. I have a few more questions. If it appears immediately that the cabinet has alienated all opposition parties and only the support of the CDA remains, what will it do? The second question is whether the cabinet can confirm that next year's childcare allowance will still increase by 300 million and by 400 million in 2017 if the Tax Plan is not adopted. That's in the Social Affairs budget. Is the low-income advantage that making hiring people around the minimum wage cheaper just going through? This amounts to a total of 500 million. Can the cabinet confirm that the coal tax will continue if the Tax Plan is not adopted by both Chambers? That would mean holding up 189 million greening. That is more than the 185 million that are now in the letter of amendment of the cabinet. In this sense, rejecting the Tax Plan leads to more greening than adopting it. We have talked for 34 hours; D66 has always been willing to talk about this, but unfortunately the cabinet has not managed to find support for the plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u52	D66 prefers to relieve the public debt, but can it explain its advantages over reducing the burden and increasing the purchasing power of citizens? So we are talking about zero jobs instead of 35,000 and paying off public debt. Why is that more advantageous than a substantial improvement in purchasing power and more than 35,000 jobs?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u53	D66 wants much more than 35,000 jobs. To this end, we have made a proposal after a proposal, and the PvdA does not seem to want to play a part in creating much more jobs and much more greening. That is a statement I have to make after the debate. That surprises me and I regret it, but it does mean that the cabinet has to borrow an additional 5 billion annually. I think that's justified if you actually use it as a lubricating oil for a tax reform. Those were the plans of the cabinet and the coalition parties, and they failed. All attempts by opposition parties with different agendas to do more ambition in those plans have been stopped by PvdA, VVD and CDA. Unfortunately, that is today's fact. And then there are plans with so little ambition that we do not think it is justified to borrow so much extra for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u54	And so D66 opts for no purchasing power improvement and no 35,000 jobs. My question remains: is that wise? We are on a multi-annual path towards budgetary balance. It's gonna stay that way. Borrowing hardly costs money at the moment. At the same time, it is very important to strengthen the economy and drive expenditure forward. Is this the new form of economic policy advocated by D66? Redempting the sovereign debt: you can't imagine it any more unimaginative.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u55	When the market is closed, Mr Groot seems to have some panic about the fact that it has not been possible to obtain aid. He's beating around the corners of parties saying they've tried to push the cabinet towards more ambition, much more jobs and much more greening. These are all things that the Labour Party apparently only has the mouths of in election time. I say to Mr Groot one thing: what is in the barrel does not acidify. We would like to work on an ambitious tax plan, with much more work and much more greening. But at the moment it is precisely Mr Groot's party, the Labour Party, which apparently blocks all of this, stuck in the division of the coalition. I'm sorry to hear that. Perhaps that will change, and then he can always count on us to implement a truly ambitious tax reform.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u56	Were you ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u57	I was done, but I saw Mr. Omtzigt...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u58	Yeah, you looked at him inviting, too, I saw.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u59	You don't turn down ladies' invitations. Do I now understand that the D66 Group is blocking a tax relief on labour of around 4 billion and is now clinging to a number of subsidy schemes for low-paid jobs as the way to get the Netherlands going and making Dutch people happier after years of D66-supported tax increases?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u60	D66 wanted a much lower tax on labour. I have noted that Mr Omtzigt when the weather was heavy inside the school booth and he, now that the sun is shining, first bounces out and thinks: ah, we can spend money! D66 is keen to ease the burden, but it is responsible. We want to use the EUR 5 billion to reduce taxes on labour much further. Unfortunately, the CDA seems to think that such plans for more jobs and more greening go too far. I think that's a missed opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u61	Finally, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u62	I have rarely seen such a poor defense of a party so constructive in recent years. That party has no idea what it stands for. I put the same question to the D66 as to the SP Group. We have seen Mr Van Weyenberg's new negotiator, Mr Pechtold, all day long in the Ministry of Finance. Was there at any time a joint negotiation with the SP and a joint plan? And could the plans drawn up by D66 and with which it shields be submitted to the Chamber? I am referring to both the plans together with the SP and the plans of D66 alone. Or were they just meant for the back rooms, and then just a little shielding with them?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u63	I understand that Mr Omtzigt, after his dealings with opposition stallion to coalition pony, must all use crazy words for the plans of others. We really wanted to talk to the cabinet. Now Mr Omtzig challenges me, but I am not going to tell you in detail what happened. However, I would like to say that these were plans that led to a much higher working discount and a much higher childcare allowance, so that workers would make much more progress. I would have liked to have been answerable for that, too. I notice that those plans were blocked by the CDA in the back room.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u64	Thank you. I shall now give the floor... Mr Groot? It is a reopening; you are not obliged to use it. There's been a 35-hour debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u65	Mr. Chairman. The very long debate has shown that it is even more difficult to distribute money than to make cuts. That is a pity, because last week's CBS figures show signs of economic hesitation. This makes it all the more important that we boost the economy by reducing the burden. The Netherlands was already ready for finally more purchasing power, finally more jobs and finally much less labour costs. Unfortunately, there is still no certainty that next year people will get more and often more to spend. We have already seen several percentages. Can the Secretary of State also express these in amounts for some example households? The Labour Party was prepared to make substantial adjustments to the five-billion package: greening and more money for children, chronically ill and elderly. Even the tax position of householders with a partner without paid work was negotiable. The amendment on the transferable tax rebate is really a bridge too far. This amendment costs 35,000 jobs and destroys the entire job creation of the Tax Plan. You can ask a lot of questions as a small party. I understand that parties want to use the fragmented political landscape as a lever for their own party political positions. What you can't ask us is to turn the whole direction of the Tax Plan that direction is low taxes on labor and more jobs 180 degrees. That's asking about it. In the case of the SGP, this is, as far as I am concerned, a breach of the long tradition of constructive cooperation with the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u66	This falls under the category of lure. Mr. Dijkgraaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u67	I think it is a very nice text by Mr Groot. I'm not used to him. Let us stick to the facts. According to the CPB model, the impact on employment in the coming years would be the result of the spending effect. Will the proposal made by the SGP change that? Will this only make one job disappear in the next five years?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u68	The rule of the game in this house is that we have to abide by the rules of the Central Planning Bureau.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u69	That's not my question. I'm interested in the next five years. Just answer that question!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u70	Mr Dijkgraaf, first Mr Groot.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u71	It is clear that such an amendment does indeed mean a trend break. The phasing-out of the transferable general tax rebate is bound to have job effects. The Central Planning Bureau is doing this fairly. We have to abide by those rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u72	I can't get an answer to my question. The CPB does not pass on our proposal, but calculates that our proposal will be repeated annually until 2040. I would like to have a clear answer from the PvdA Group, in line with the central planning office's transfer, where the researcher from the central planning office says that in the short term it is not about labour supply, because that is enough, but about the spending effect. This amendment does not change the effect of spending. My question is simple. Will this amendment cost just one job for the short term, for the coming years, and given that there are 650,000 unemployed?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u73	We're repeating ourselves. This discussion has also taken place in previous periods. We have also regularly found it difficult to assess the CPB measures. These are the rules of the game and we have to abide by them. Indeed, I believe that all the measures we have taken since the 1990s to promote participation in the labour market, including those of non-working partners, have had a great deal of effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u74	I think Mr Dijkgraaf has a point. The Central Planning Bureau has calculated this, but not what has been submitted here. You can debate that, but you are not debating the amendment, you are debating something else. I have another question. Mr Groot said that the PvdA Group was prepared to go far.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u75	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u76	Was the PvdA Group also willing to move towards the SP proposal? The proposal not to give the highest incomes a €1,000 tax advantage, but to give the money to everyone, so also to non-working pensioners and low-income people.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u77	The most important point the SP has always put forward is the extension of the third disk. I'm looking at the Secretary of State or he can confirm that if you just look at the distribution of gross income, especially in the group for which the third disc is extended, the income progress is the least significant. The extension of the third instalment was intended in particular to compensate for the reduction of the general tax rebate and the labour rebate. I think that the measure to extend that third disc was quite rightly taken. I think it would disbalance the distribution by not extending the third disk.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u78	To sum up, I understand that the PvdA Group has looked at all the proposals that came along. The PvdA was willing to go far, but the proposal to do something for the low incomes, the non-working and the elderly was unspeakable to the PvdA group, because what is happening now is a compensation for the highest incomes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u79	The starting point of this tax review was that it would be more or less income-neutral. The final outcome also shows that. There is, however, an accent difference, because low and middle incomes are a little more forward than high incomes. I think we can be pleased with that result, because those are the groups that have been hit hardest in recent years. Think about the police officer and the neighborhood nurse. In particular, they benefit from this tax reduction. We've done everything we can to reach an agreement. The Secretary of State did even more than that; thank you. But the division among the opposition parties was simply too great. Has the whole debate been for nothing? No. The good news of this long debate is that, on the basis of the wishes of the opposition parties we have heard, a package of measures can be put together that improves the Tax Plan. That's what the Cabinet did. I refer to the 100 million more child benefit and the 100 million more child care. I also mention the repair of the cost of parents with disabled children. They will receive €600. Repairing the purchasing power of older people is partly structural. There is a whole package of greening. Local generation of electricity is finally becoming really attractive. There will be more money for the Energy Investment Deduction. There will be lower employers' contributions to labour. In short, there is a whole package based on the wishes we have heard in this debate over the last 38 hours. Thanks to the debate, the Tax Plan has become greener and more social, without compromising the number of additional jobs. That should also satisfy D66. Much has been said about tax reform as a missed opportunity. A missed opportunity that, as far as I'm concerned, is the toll we pay for a divided Second and First Chamber. It would be an even greater missed opportunity to deprive citizens of the chance of more purchasing power and more jobs, just because all parties are getting what they want, but not quite. The Labour Party hopes and counts, with 17 million Dutch people, that it does not have to come to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u80	I have heard Mr Groot say a number of times that the blame for the fact that there is no plan now lies in the division of the opposition. Does Mr Groot recognise that there have been proposals for the coalition to bring four parties, namely CDA, Christian Union, SGP and even SP, which would provide sufficient seats in the First Chamber? Does he recognise that the problem lies not with a divided opposition, but with a reluctant coalition?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u81	I said something about this at the beginning of my speech. We were willing to make a lot of adjustments. However, we are not prepared to support an amendment that would completely eliminate the full job creation of 5 billion reductions. In addition, the credit transfers issued by the Central Planning Bureau are leading.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u82	So that confirms my statement: this Tax Plan is not about to be killed by a divided opposition, but by a reluctant coalition.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u83	It is about proposals that destroy the whole of the job creation. The Secretary of State has been very clear about this. We don't want to go that far. That would not be possible either, because that would not do justice at all to the starting point with which we started this tax review.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u84	On the side of greening and more work there were also excellent opportunities. Mr Groot has said a number of things about this in the debate such as 'I am listening carefully' and 'I am prepared to move with it', but we must note that this is extremely lean. I have tried several times during the debate to challenge Mr Groot. For example, what does he think of the proposals on energy taxation for large consumers?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u85	And what's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u86	So I'm gonna ask you again. Why doesn't Mr Groot go along with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u87	It's about finding a good balance, so you maximize the chance that this Tax Plan passes through two chambers. Only support from GroenLinks is insufficient. Having said that, I think significant steps have been taken towards greening in relation to what was lying there. Mr Weyenberg and Mr Grashoff also asked for a substantial shift in line with the approach of the CE Delft Research Office. We make electricity substantially cheaper and gas more expensive. This saves the gas bubble in the Groningen. We are making local electricity generation more attractive and we are even going to do something for charging stations. D66 managed to pull all that in. That is the result of D66's input into this whole.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u88	Finally, Mr Grashoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u89	I think Mr Groot is counting on this issue in a wonderful way. If you add up all the parties that have spoken out for greening and also for more work, I thought the Labour Party was for more work, the legislative proposal would achieve a large majority here and on the other side.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u90	We still assume that this is a reasonable package, given all the wishes that lived there. It provides jobs and greens as well. Moreover, it meets the various wishes. We are aware that we do not have a majority in the First Chamber, and that is why we call on the common sense of all the other parties to make this possible. That's all you can do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u91	I note that Mr Groot's disappointment is apparently still so great that he needs one you-bowl after another; but well. However, Mr Groot is right. D66 has gained very little in greening so far, namely the postcode rose, something with gas and electricity tariffs and...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u92	The postcode rose...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u93	Was I speaking or were you speaking?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u94	Mr Van Weyenberg, you spoke. I was distracted for a moment and Mr Groot took advantage of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u95	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Yes, the postcode rose is there following an amendment by a number of parties. There is something about loading posts. That's fine; it's beautiful. Also something happens with gas and electricity. Now there are all kinds of other plans for greening, because greening is good for the environment, but these plans also reduce the burden on labour; so more jobs. Mr Groot was just critical of parties whose plans run counter to that ambition. These are concrete proposals from D66 and other parties leading to more greening and more work. Then Mr Groot will have to explain to me what the Labour Party has against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u96	The Labour Party obviously has nothing against greening, but again, it is a balance. It's about what's possible. In our election programme, the introduction of the Maut is very much against it, but other parties are very opposed to it. You have to take those different wishes into account. Within these conditions, I still say that we have taken substantial steps towards further greening in relation to the tax plan that originally existed: local energy generation, the postcode rose and the significant shift from gas to electricity.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u97	In fact, Mr Groot is quite honest with this. So it is not a divided opposition at all, but a totally divided coalition.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u98	These words are on Mr Van Weyenberg's behalf. I think we have a balanced package in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u99	Here's what I'm gonna say to you. We have taken into account a short reopening. I happen to have presided over part of the treatment of the Tax Plan. I hear a lot of reruns. You spent 35 hours debating each other. I don't know how you could come up with another proposal in half an hour. I urge all of you to intervene briefly, so one question. Otherwise, I'm gonna be a real pain in the ass as president.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u100	Mr President, I am fine with that, but Mr Groot is taking other parties into account here. He looks at other parties, rather than the failure of the cabinet and the coalition. You can't be surprised that opposition parties react to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u101	You have had every opportunity to say something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u102	I have a question for the Labour Party. Mr. Groot can count well in the First Chamber. If the parties do what they say here, there is currently no majority for the Tax Plan. We have no reason to believe that they will not, especially in view of the conditions that are only getting worse in this debate. Then what is the route of the Labour Party to ensure that there is still a tax plan through the Chambers that can count on sufficient support in both the Second and First Chambers? Or are we gonna bet we're gonna run out of tax plans?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u103	I can't answer that question like one-two-three. I think it's mainly in the cabinet too. In this case, the cabinet is in a position to act, as the cabinet has been the main move in recent weeks. I think it is a good question, but I would refer Mr Omtzig to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u104	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands needs a thorough review of the tax system. A review costs money. There is now 5 billion "available" which is distributed among the Netherlands, without, however, a much-needed, thorough revision of that tax system. A fundamental change that we had proposed to abolish the unjust inheritance tax does not seem to make it. That means that we are now dealing with waste money in the short term. It's actually time for free-minded thinking. That is why I have made other proposals to get the greatest peculiarities out of the proposal before us. However, the mess between the coalition and the various opposition parties does not make the picture more credible. Actually, it's a shame. The last bid in the fourth letter of amendment can also be considered to be unbalanced. Nothing's going to be solved. There will be no jobs, no reforms and no real purchasing power gains for earners and pensioners. We therefore believe that the money, as an independent group, can be used in part to reduce public debt. This results in a profit in the form of a better financial position, room for liberal reforms in the future, and lower interest charges that we can use for a more balanced purchasing power picture. Lower burdens on municipalities can also generate profits. The removal of the scaling-up discount in the municipalities costs 975 million. This rudiment from the cheese holes that the coalition agreement is now, must be removed. In fact, nothing is being scaled up among the municipalities, but they are being cut down and municipalities are being forced to increase the burden on the citizens with the ICI. That is why I shall now move on to the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the cabinet had previously subscribed a scaling-up discount with the idea that municipalities would have to merge and that this would bring 975 million to 2025;]] [[Considering that two years ago the cabinet abandoned the attempt to scale up municipalities to 100,000+, without, however, removing this structural reduction;]] [[whereas the cabinet now provides an additional EUR 5 billion to cover this discount;]] [[calls on the Government to refrain from the scaling-up discount for municipalities,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Klein. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34302-88]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u105	I'm rounding up. The independent Lower House Group Klein rejects this Tax Plan. Looks like the First Chamber will do the same, but with politics, you never know.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u106	Mr. Chairman. What is now before us, with the fourth letter of amendment added, cannot pass the test of criticism as far as our group is concerned. Too little is happening with the essential points we have put forward. At least one thing cannot be denied to our group, namely that it was clear in what it wanted and what it stood for. That is not met, not even half of it. GroenLinks, too, with four seats in the Chamber, is sometimes willing to settle for less than the whole equal, but this really is not enough. It's really starting to get the character of windowdressing. There are a few nice things, but this coalition is afraid to address the real essence. After the extremely long debate with all these deadlines, I can only conclude that the government and this coalition have shown a shocking lack of direction in the process. It seems that I should focus my attention on this Secretary of State in trade-K, but that would be unjustified. We have to note that this comprehensive and important Tax Plan was an important priority for the Cabinet as a whole, but nevertheless we have only heard our Prime Minister in the media. He has played no role in actively bringing parties together. He has not tried to take control of this important issue. That's not good. On Wednesday evening we had to hear at the end of the debate that the Secretary of State had to refer a crucial amendment, which seemed to be an agreement with the Christian parties, to the trash can. That was quite right, by the way. Then I can only conclude that there has been a complete lack of direction in the whole approach. I blame the coalition and the government in broad terms. It is not the case that parties ask about it, but they ask what they want. It is up to this coalition, this cabinet, to choose in it. You can go two ways, but you can't take a little bit from both sides. After all, you don't have any friends left. It seems that each party with which has been seriously spoken has finally left the table more or less frustrated, regardless of whether it went towards more work and more greening or towards contenting a earner. The cabinet's playing a big game. It is high game to ask who dares to refer 5 billion burdens to the trash bin. Let me make it clear that my group has no problem with that. We are not the party to reducing the burden, but we are the party to greening and employment. We'll file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that greening has now been largely insufficient in the 2016 Tax Plan;]] [[Whereas in order to achieve the required 15 megaton additional CO reduction to the ruling of the Urgenda case and the motion-Klaver c.s. (34300, No. 24), further fiscal measures will be necessary;]] [[Calls on the Government to submit to the Chamber by 1 April 2016 an additional package of fiscal and other measures to achieve that additional 15 megatons of CO reduction and to have this plan passed on by an independent agency;]] [[Invites the Government to include the necessary additional fiscal measures from this package in the 2017 Tax Plan,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34302-89]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u107	I can imagine that GroenLinks is dissatisfied with the greening package. One step has been taken, but GroenLinks is obliged to ask for more at all times. I understand that here is the better enemy of good. But there are also a few other things in the Tax Plan and a colleague of Mr Grashoff has been very busy with that. It is then a question of tax avoidance and more equal distribution of assets. There is also a box 3 proposal in the Tax Plan and all kinds of measures against tax avoidance. Does GroenLinks realize that it must take that into account in its consideration of the whole of tax laws that are now before us?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u108	We are very aware of that. It is therefore not with pleasure, or with any pleasure, that we are heading for a vote against the Tax Plan. The bottom line, however, is that the balance in this Tax Plan has not been found and that this coalition and this government are responsible for not achieving this where it was within reach.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u109	Mr. Chairman. After years of austerity, Princess Day of the Cabinet came up with a tax plan in which there was room, with extra jobs, 35,000, plus a piece of tax relief. Finally, I thought, and that's what a lot of people in this country think. Finally, relief and more jobs. That's when the debates came. As spokesperson's taxes, we always take the time to do so, but that is allowed, because it is the entire revenue side of the government. Then it turned out that there were other wishes and that the plans had to be changed. We listened then. The cabinet has also listened and, on balance, a number of things have been taken out. There is still more provision for family allowances, childcare allowances, the elderly allowance and also a piece of greening. Is greening the first thing a VVD spokesperson is waiting for? No, but we say that the importance of a tax plan, with jobs and relief, is essential for us. In the Tax Plan, even after the letter of amendment, ordinary households improved. Now that parties are threatening to vote against, I would like to hear from the Secretary of State what the consequences would be if the Tax Plan were not adopted. What does this mean for jobs and for household incomes? That is, after all, essential. In the Tax Plan everyone went light, but some a little more, forward. Finally!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u110	Have you finished your speech, Mrs Neppérus?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u111	I see Mr Van Weyenberg now standing in front of the interrupting microphone, so I thought...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u112	Yes, I saw that too, but if you are almost done with your speech, I will give you the opportunity to conclude it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u113	Good. Even though there are now elements in the Tax Plan which are certainly not our first choice, the importance of burden relief and the additional jobs are essential for us. My question to the Secretary of State is therefore what it means not to continue it for the different types of households in terms of income, for the jobs and for the execution by the government and the Tax Administration.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u114	Then make a better plan that will be carried, would be my reaction. But my question is about something else. Can Mrs Neppérus say how many additional jobs the letter of amendment creates?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u115	The greening is very clear in it. That's not our first choice, but the greening is just in it. Perhaps the Secretary of State will also be able to indicate the impact on jobs. So that greening is more than enough. What others want, however, is even more greening and zero jobs. And I'm sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u116	Of course, that's a very crazy answer. My question was how many additional jobs this letter of amendment creates. The honest answer is zero and maybe even a little bit less. Why doesn't Mrs. Neppérus just admit it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u117	It's still 35,000 jobs. We consider it essential that these 35,000 jobs should be created. I have said that in the last 36 hours, and I will repeat it. We're just proud that they're coming. Even more additional jobs are no longer on the agenda, but we have done a number of things to accommodate parties. At least the core remains proud.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u118	35,000 jobs for 5 billion is, of course, a joke. That's $170,000 per job. That would be the result. That is not what my question is about. My question to Mrs Neppérus is: is this still a workable situation? The VVD has added so much water to the wine and at the last change a quack water. That wine that hasn't tasted in a long time. Isn't the VVD sick of muddling with this cabinet while there's a motion of censure here against a 5 billion-dollar relief that gets a majority in the First Chamber? What does that say?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u119	I have heard many motions of censure from Mr Van Dijck's party. So we'll wait and see. We in the VVD consider it essential that we now have a reduction in the burden of 5 billion plus 35,000 additional jobs. That is essential for the Netherlands and we are proud of it. We therefore want this to continue. This cabinet has worked on it, fortunately often with the support of others, that the country will recover. Let us now create additional jobs and reduce the burden.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u120	I asked Mrs Neppérus if this is still a workable situation. If even a plan of 5 billion and 35,000 jobs is voted out by a majority in the First Chamber, this means that the majority in the First Chamber no longer likes this cabinet and that this cabinet should go home and actually draw its conclusion. That's the signal. Does Mrs. Neppérus agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u121	I am not, because I hear Mr Van Dijck or his partymates talking about sending the cabinet away every week. That is everyone's right because we live in a democracy, but we are talking about extra jobs and less burdens. That is what we, as VVD, continue to go for, even after today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u122	I shall now give the floor to Mr Dijkgraaf of the SGP Group. No, no, that must be Mr Van Dijck of the PVV Group. Oh, you don't? I call Mr Dijkgraaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u123	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I did have another list in front of me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u124	Me too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u125	So I thought there were other speakers before me. Mr. Chairman. After 35 hours of debate, there is a great deal of division. However, there is hope, namely a united part of the opposition. There is only one club that sits together, namely CDA, ChristenUnion and SGP, with a total of 17 seats. They have a clear proposition. First of all, increase child support. Second, help chronically ill. Thirdly, increase the transferable tax credit for single-earners. And the latter is also part of the SP. Then there's a majority in the First Chamber. After all the debates and discussions we have had, I say to the cabinet and the coalition: that is still true. Tomorrow's the vote. If these amendments are adopted, we will vote in favour of the Tax Plan. The narrowing of the gap between the single earners and the two earners is crucial for us; no one can have escaped that. We still haven't voted yet. We can discuss alternatives. We remain constructive. It does not have to be a transferable general tax rebate. It may also be a transferable income-dependent combination discount or a transferable labour discount. We are constructive and we are happy to take part in the discussions on the instruments. Maybe there's still a deal to be made with the fraction of D66. If the members of the D66 group also participate, they increase the discount and we make it transferable; then we meet everyone. For us, one thing is essential, namely that the gap, which is again getting much bigger, is finally getting smaller.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u126	Have you finished your speech, Mr Dijkgraaf?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u127	No. Shall I continue my argument?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u128	I see that Mr Van Weyenberg wishes to intervene. Very briefly, one question, please, without further question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u129	Mr President, this debate has been reopened. The cabinet is embellishing half a billion euros. I would just like to say to Mr Dijkgraaf that I think that the part of his speech on increasing the combination discount is really a step forward in the debate. I am grateful to him for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u130	Look, you can do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u131	Look, now we're gonna find each other. Now the D66 Group has agreed to this increase. If she agrees to transferability now, we're here. Do it! You have one more option.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u132	What's your answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u133	It is almost impossible to say no to Mr Dijkgraaf, but here we are choosing a different route. Mr Dijkgraaf knows that. Mr Dijkgraaf is working with three other parties to seduce the cabinet. It is clear that the D66 Group does not choose that route for emancipatory reasons. However, Mr Dijkgraaf is passionate about this and I always respect it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u134	What a pity that D66 is stuck in 20th-century politics. The cabinet says it costs jobs. This argument has played a central role in the debate. If in reality it cost jobs, I would understand this argument very well. After all, we must have jobs; unemployment must go down. You know what I think is sad? If our amendment on the single earners, on portability, is adopted, unemployment will not rise in the coming years, but will fall. Read what the researcher of the Central Planning Bureau writes. In the short term, labour supply does not have an impact on employment, but on spending. We are not changing the effect of spending; labour supply is falling slightly, so unemployment is falling. In the long term, one could say, employment is determined by the transferable tax rebate, if there were, but the basic path does not change anything at all. Read the proposal carefully, I'd say to the Secretary of State. In reality, therefore, this amendment cannot have any long-term impact on employment. I have to say, therefore, that the coalition has dropped 5 billion in burden relief because of an incorrect interpretation of the CBP's credit transfer. I have no criticism whatsoever of the CBP; it is a fine piece, drawn up in accordance with its rules of procedure. Our rules concern the way in which we interpret these types of studies. It is clear that the transfer is based on an annual repetition of what is proposed in the amendment, which everyone in the Chamber knows will never happen in practice. Then the coalition must indeed choose: let it walk the 5 billion, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-18.u135	Mr. Chairman. It has been said a number of times: what has produced 35 hours of debate? I notice that we are all fighting each other here now. All sides point to each other. I have also participated in this, so I will not exonerate myself from it. What happened? Let me speak for ourselves, for my group. We indicated, more than a year ago, what we believe the tax review should be about. We want a fair system. We have always mentioned three elements: the chronically ill and disabled, the single-earned and greening. With the plan that the cabinet brought out last Friday, two of the three points were killed. There's gonna be a three-million-dollar allowance for parents with a handicapped child. I like that, but on a 5 billion package, of course, that is nothing at all. As far as the gap between one and two earners is concerned, nothing has happened. There has only been a gesture towards child benefit which we appreciate in itself, but which does not do anything about that gap. As far as greening is concerned, I recognize that a number of matters have been settled. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for that. However, I also note that the cabinet has been mainly guided by calculations and not by the search for support in this Chamber for a tax relief of 5 billion. The Secretary of State said today: it seems impossible to find majorities that appear in advance. He also said: I only have to move one fin to meet someone, or I lose someone else. He also mentioned the opposition. I have just indicated it in an interruption: there has been a plan on the table, and that is still there, from CDA, Christian Union and SGP, which can secure the seventeen seats needed in the First Chamber. The First Chamber itself asked for this in a majority. It's not just a wish from here. The Secretary of State is going to have a difficult debate there too, because there is an adopted motion which states that the gap between one and two-earners must be reduced. The cabinet has made a choice. The coalition has made a choice. We'll say it one more time. The votes have not yet been taken, it can still be done. There are plans here that will at least ensure the support of a number of parties, parties that form a majority in the Upper Chamber. I assume that the coalition will reconsider and reflect on what it is now losing, not because we want to make a political profit, but precisely for all those people in the country who are indeed looking for a reduction in the burden.
