ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u1	Mr. Chairman. Last Friday there was a warning, because in Tilburg a passenger train crashed on a freight train. The result was eight lightly wounded, a car that was closed quite quickly and train traffic that was flat for two days. This was a warning because such incidents could also be much more serious. Here, first of all, compliments are due to the aid workers, who quickly got the situation under control and did their job well and adequately. But we also have a number of questions, first of all about freight transport itself. Is the Secretary of State prepared to make every effort to ensure that the transport of dangerous substances takes place as far as possible on the Betuwe route rather than by the cities of Brabant and Limburg? Does the Secretary of State agree with us that it is necessary to have the dangerous substances transported along the Betuwe route as much as possible? Then the incident itself. We wonder whether it is correct that the driver was driven by a red signal and then arrived at the rear of the freight train. Of course, there is the question of whether this could have been prevented by the introduction of ATB-Vv, a system that intervenes when at low speeds a red signal is driven. We wonder if the Secretary of State is prepared to provide the entire Brabant route with ATB-Vv, so that such incidents can no longer take place. Can the risk profile of this route be revised? There's a lot of people living down the tracks there. If the risk profile is revised due to increased use over the next few years, this may prevent such situations. As you know, this freight train was butadiene. Then how is it that the media talked about LPG, a substance that is much more dangerous? I still have a number of questions, but I will ask them in the light of the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. I thank the PvdA Group for its questions. Every accident is an accident too much, especially when it comes to the track. Accidents there often involve a lot of people. Shouldn't dangerous substances be transported along the Betuwe route? The answer is "yes" because that route is a dedicated freight line. However, the train that was part of the accident would not have driven over the Betuweroute anyway, because its destination was in the south of the country. The freight train would have been on the Brabant route anyway. On the question of whether dangerous substances should be transported as far as possible on the Betuweroute, the answer, as has been said, is 'yes'. Mr Hoogland asked whether there should be route control. The Chamber knows that in that sense I like to seduce the rail sector very much. It is very important that there is a certain degree of route constraint versus seduction. In addition, it is important that freight is carried over the railway line. If it goes to the hinterland, the Ruhr area, it has to go through the Betuwe route. Could ATB-Vv have prevented this accident? The signal passed through is a signal from the low risk group. With this I answer the following question: 80% is provided with ATB-Vv and 20% is not. At the moment, I'm not adjusting the risk profile. However, it is important to look at how we have identified the risk profile in the wake of the accident and whether there is any reason to adapt it. By the way, a low risk signal through which is driven always becomes an ATB-Vv signal. That is the rule that is being applied on the track. Then there is the question of LPG and butadiene. I agree with Mr Hoogland. In the first instance, there was talk of LPG, but that was not the issue. I don't know where that message came from. Lpg is much more dangerous than butadiene, because the latter substance is only flammable and LPG also has an explosion hazard. For example, the introduction of the Base Network Act will reduce the number of LPG transports over the Brabant route by 30% to ensure that transport is carried on the Betuwe route.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u3	Then there are a number of follow-up questions left. How is the incident being investigated? Is there a role for the Security Research Council (OVV)? When will the Secretary of State report to the Chamber on this incident? We are very curious why it took so long before the train timetable has started again. The incident took place on Friday. Only on Sundays I would like to hear it if this information is not correct. Those are two full days of trouble. It's important to know clearly why that took so long. We also wonder if it can't go any faster. Finally, we have the question of whether the freight train that was driving there was provided for in accordance with the rules, i.e. whether the labelling was correct, whether there was any clarity as to what substances were on the train, how there was a misunderstanding in the media and whether it was possible to inform people living in the vicinity of the railway about the goods that pass through those freight trains. After all, that is a wish. If you are sleeping and you hear a train thundering, and it goes wrong or there is an incident, it is a desire of many to know right away whether the transport is a substance that is dangerous or, for example, shoes. That makes quite a difference for the follow-up actions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u4	The ILT found that the direct cause of the collision was a red signal passage of an NS train. The Research Council for Security is most likely to tell us today if he's going to do any follow-up research. The ILT will also consider whether the facts surrounding this serious incident so far give rise to an own investigation. The Security Research Council is an independent council and I cannot indicate in advance when it reports. In general, the ILT and the OVV are conducting their own investigations. Once the results are known, they will be sent to the Chamber as soon as possible. I will see whether the question of risk analysis can be taken into account in the appreciation of those studies. What took you so long? It is a very factual list of events. The first priority was the evacuation of train passengers and the provisional closing of the leak. Then the butadiene had to be pumped out of the damaged boiler truck. We are talking about 50 tonnes of butadiene which must be pumped over under strictly controlled conditions. Until the time of pumping, the ILT and the Safety Research Council were not allowed to take action for their research. It wasn't until Saturday at 4:30. It wasn't until after that that the area was cleared. It's taken time. This had to be done on a temporary basis and not at the same time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u5	Finally. I think it is right for us to await the report of the Security Research Council. I note, however, that it is good to check whether these ATB-Vv systems are not needed in a number of sensitive areas. Is the Secretary of State prepared to investigate that and inform the Chamber about it? That offers the most safety for the residents along the Brabant route.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u6	Can Mr Hoogland repeat the last question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u7	I'm asking the people in the room to keep your voice down. Then the Secretary of State can hear the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u8	My question was whether the Secretary of State is prepared to investigate which ATB-Vv signals are not yet available in sensitive areas and whether they should be available in areas that are not yet planned.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u9	As we know, we have made an analysis of this. On the Brabant route 80% ATB-Vv will lie. I have already promised that I will consider whether the risk analysis for the Brabant route for ATB-Vv should be reviewed and whether a different decision should be taken towards 100%. I'll give you that appreciation if the reports go your way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u10	Firstly, it was nice to hear that it was reaffirmed that the adopted Van Tongeren motion, by the way, with the support of the PvdA, for route control on the Betuweroute is once again brought to the attention of the public. There will be less LPG transport. Is it true that if there is an explosion with LPG, in a circle of about 150 meters, everyone dies? The Court has previously made suggestions for planning the timetable for dangerous substances more widely and for slowing down trains. It's complicated, but it gives more security. What is the situation with regard to the implementation of these suggestions?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u11	I don't know exactly which area should be free for a LPG explosion. For the transport of dangerous substances, which represents a limited percentage of freight transport, we have a dedicated railway line, the Betuwe route. However, it is not excluded that it is also about other goods lines. With the Wet basisnet we have given risk ceilings to railway lines. That's why there's a lot less LPG on the Brabant route. It was asked about service planning and slower driving. I've talked to the Chamber about this before. It has to be a combination of things to ensure safety, at least to a certain extent, because you also want the trains to keep running. Those things are being investigated. I will come back to that in the Chamber. In fact, I do not think that this Question Time is the end of the discussion on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u12	First of all, I think it is a very positive development that Mr Hoogland is asking these questions. I asked the same questions about the train accident in Borne. I asked for an independent investigation. Then the Labour Party didn't want to support that. It argues for her to want to do it now, now that the first accident involving dangerous substances has occurred. My follow-up question is about the following. Yesterday I paid a working visit to the municipality of Tilburg and the municipality of Breda.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u13	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u14	I was asked, and I am going straight to the Secretary of State, to what extent it is possible for there to be a special track at the stations for the transit of freight trains, so that the danger of collisions does not occur and they do not have to slow down. And, two...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u15	Thank you. You may ask one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u16	But this was Tilburg's one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u17	You're way past your time, so I'll put this question to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u18	I can imagine that those wishes live. This is not always possible at stations. I think it is important to look at how a train is assembled. And, secretly, an answer to Mr Hoogland's question: do we know what's in it? Are we ensuring that the conditions are such that the drivers are well trained to avoid STS passages? We are seeing a very dramatic drop, in a positive sense, in the number of such incidents. That's important. Can ATB-Vv play in this? It's about existing tracks. Is it possible to look carefully at the timetable where possible, to ensure that, if possible, such a freight train can continue? Part of it fits in the timetable of ProRail. Furthermore, freight transport must continue. However, it is quite right that municipalities should consider how things are in their own municipality and whether the risk is kept to the minimum.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u19	Freight transport is vital to the economy of the Netherlands. It is already the case that as many freight trains as possible, especially those with dangerous substances, have to go through the Betuwe route. We also have the Wet basenet. However, I was triggered for a while. You do indeed have the system of automatic train influence. It's 80% now. That's what I hear the Secretary of State say. For the other 20%, the Secretary of State will give an appreciation, she will indicate whether it should be built on the rest of the Brabant route. Shouldn't we move on to that right away? We have a budget for that. The Brabant route is an important route for the collection of freight. So I wouldn't wait. I'd rather take action. Can the Secretary of State comment on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u20	Yes. Mrs De Boer's question is very legitimate. At the same time, we have classified signals into categories, looking at where the high risks and the low risks lie. Precisely for the Brabant route, we need to look again at the distribution of risks and whether we would like to appreciate them differently. The question is what impact it has on, for example, other lines and resources. Are we adding real security? Or wouldn't it add anything? I've made that weighing before with the Chamber. I'll make that weighing again for the Brabant Route, so we can have the conversation about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u21	Thank you for your answers. Thank you, too, for coming to the Chamber.
