ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u1	I would like to welcome all those present in the Chamber, in particular the Prime Minister and the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and the Environment. Nine speakers have spoken for this debate and we have agreed on a five-minute speaking time per group. I ask Members, if they feel the need to interrupt each other, to ask themselves first whether they really want to do so and, if they really want to, to allow that interruption to consist at most of a question and a follow-up question. I suggest that at the end of the first term of the Chamber we suspend for dinner break. First of all, I give the floor to Mrs Thieme, who requested this debate some time ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u2	Mr. Chairman. No country in the EU has as much greenhouse gas emissions as the Netherlands. No other country than the Netherlands was convicted by the judge for its climate policy. We are a country that historically bears a great responsibility for the problems that climate change poses worldwide. This country, our Netherlands, does not take the greatest challenge of our generation seriously enough. That's not only bad, we can't afford it either. We cannot afford it as a country with an extremely large climate footprint. We're getting roses from Kenya and Ethiopia. We consume 76 kilos of meat per person per year. We're trying to get the Chinese to eat our milk. When it comes to climate problems, there is no country with a lot of butter literally as much on its head as the Netherlands. Despite all the calls made by scientists, this cabinet continues to make full use of coal power stations. Despite all protests by citizens, municipalities and experts, the Minister for the Environment continues to increase the speed limit on motorways. The time for non-committality is over, says the Secretary of State for the Environment, and then shift the responsibility to counter climate change to business, civil society and developing countries. We're ignoring all the alarm bells. Sheila Sitalsing put it very well in the Volkskrant yesterday: here are parallels with previous warnings. 28 years ago, there was a warning of the imminent derailment of young people in Molenbeek. In vain. The KNMI announces code orange for the climate, but the cabinet seems deaf. In response to our adopted motion asking the cabinet for a long-term climate vision, the Minister for Economic Affairs replied in September of this year: "Our long-term climate vision is that it is an international problem." Period. What a poor thing. There's gotta be another way. It's possible. By no longer seeing economic growth as a sacred grail, the driving force behind the still increasing greenhouse gas emissions falls away. It can be done by focusing on a regional and sustainable economy. It can be done by no longer looking away from the fact that the climate problem is mainly on our plate. By focusing on a more plant-based diet, we can achieve by far the fastest climate gain. If every Dutchman only eats less meat one day a week, it will save the same as when we take 1 million cars off the road. If Americans were not to eat meat for one day, we would be talking about a saving of no less than 19 million cars in greenhouse gases. Animal husbandry in the world emits more greenhouse gases than all traffic and transport combined. It is of all energy-using industries that causes number one of greenhouse gas emissions. It has been calculated that by tackling meat consumption we reduce the cost of climate policy by half. As the second largest agricultural exporter in the world, the Netherlands has a very great responsibility. However, the livestock industry is not at the heart of the climate summit. Is the Prime Minister prepared to appoint this freely in his speech and to indicate that the climate summit should also be about agriculture and livestock farming? The Planning Office for the Environment (PBL), Chatham House..................................................................................................................................................... The advice is therefore not to greenwash livestock farming with terms such as "climate-smart agriculture," which the government would like to hear. No, less meat and less milk must be produced and consumed. I would like to get a reaction, because we can no longer look away from this elephant in the room. The cabinet must stand up for the protection of poor and vulnerable countries and islands that suffer from our recklessness. Is the Prime Minister prepared to substantially increase climate finance and, as previously promised, to add to development funds? Last year, the Chamber adopted a motion from the Animal Party to advocate a ban on oil and gas extraction in the Arctic during international climate negotiations. I do not see this motion returning to the Dutch commitment to the Paris climate summit. Why not? I'm rounding up. The Netherlands must abide by its own commitments and objectives. It is up to politics not only to represent today's citizens, but also to defend the interests of future generations. That is why I believe that the bio-industry must be stopped.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u3	Mr. Chairman. In 2009 I was in Copenhagen. As chairman of the youth organisation of CNV, I was part of a coalition of fourteen Dutch youth organisations. Why was I there? A major obstacle to effective climate policy is the "historical tragedy," as the Governor of the Bank of England calls it. Climate change is a long-term development. The horizon of politics or business is not set. This systematically underestimates the risks of climate change, fails to meet the objectives and postpones the policy. The goal of our coalition was to make the voice of the future heard, because the horizon of young people is by definition far beyond that of policy makers. However, "Copenhagen" failed. I found that disappointing. Shortsightedness won over the future, but it only won for a moment. I also came back from Copenhagen with new optimism. I saw for the first time with my own eyes that the international community is taking climate change seriously. Imagine: a few 200 countries agree on the need for a joint strategy to keep global warming below 2°C. We agree on the goal worldwide. Now we have to agree on the important way forward. The summit in Paris must define that road map. Why am I optimistic? Firstly, knowledge about climate change has increased. It is also being called into question less and less. Only a few still grumbling when the KNMI comes up with information on the consequences of climate change. Secondly, it is an encouraging sign that the United States and China, as large countries with a huge share of greenhouse gas emissions, have agreed on climate policy. Thirdly, in recent years it has become clear to many that it can be done. We can combine a high standard of living with an effective climate policy. Six years ago, at the Copenhagen Summit, it was not expected that the development and reduction of renewable energy would go as fast as in recent years. It is clear to everyone that renewable energy is a credible alternative to fossil fuels. The big question, of course, is what the summit in Paris should yield. First of all, these are credible CO reductions agreements that actually ensure that we remain within that 2°C target. These objectives need to be formulated in the short and long term. Ambition and action must go hand in hand, especially because we know that if we wait any longer, we will not be able to do so. What is the government's position on an interim increase in ambition? Secondly, it is necessary that objectives are binding over a longer period. Binding agreements and a legal framework provide a basis for a strategy linking the short and long term. In this light, we can see the initiative for a climate law that Diederik Samsom and I have presented together. The environmental movement, under the leadership of Milieudefensie, has already done a lot of work for this law about eight years ago. Wouldn't it be nice if the summit in Paris concluded that all countries are going to make national climate laws, as we are proposing? This anchors objectives and guarantees their realisation. It's the way to break the tragedy of the horizon. I would like to receive a response from the Prime Minister on this point. Thirdly, hard agreements are needed to finance developing countries, both to help reduce greenhouse gas emissions and to compensate for damage caused by climate change. Fourthly, it is incomprehensible that international air and shipping should not participate. Does the government intend to take initiatives to impose commitments on these sectors to reduce greenhouse gases? Finally, I would like to say the following. The Netherlands is not, to put it mildly, a frontrunner in energy and climate policy. This week 64 professors made a call to the cabinet to close all coal power stations, not only the old ones, but also the new ones. We don't need them. The coal industry is not viable. Other countries lead us. It would be a signal from the Netherlands on its way to the Paris climate summit. When does the cabinet say goodbye to this nineteenth-century fuel?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u4	It is right for Mr Klaver to point out that much more ambition is needed. Knowledge has increased about the causes of global warming. Now I notice that Mr Klaver, too, is mainly talking about the energy sector, as was the case ten to twenty years ago. He is now also talking about the need to include the air and shipping sectors. However, Mr Klaver knows with me that the cause of greenhouse gas emissions is livestock farming in the world. The energy sector does not exist for itself. Why do I not hear Mr Klaver on this subject? Does he still intend to involve the livestock sector in the climate objectives set out in the climate law?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u5	Perhaps Mrs Thieme has not yet had the opportunity to read the law, but I can refer her to the article in question. Article 10 (4) also mentions the agricultural sector as a sector to be agreed upon. Mrs Thieme and I fully agree that this sector is an important contribution to global warming. If we are to avoid this, the sector will have to make a contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u6	It is very nice that all this is written in the draft climate law at national level. I also asked Mr Klaver whether he agreed with me that the issue of livestock farming should be discussed at the Paris climate summit. Does he agree with me that we should give an order to the rulers who go to that summit to refer to it in their speeches?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u7	Agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u8	It was a good and convincing argument. I read the professors' letter, too. I would like to ask Mr Klaver, bearing in mind the GroenLinks past, whether it is not too much for the happy few. I sometimes bully Mrs Van Tongeren with the point that her story is something for blonde, highly educated baking bike mothers, but then she's in the curtains.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u9	That's not nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u10	Well, I certainly don't like that about a colleague either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u11	No, but by "the happy few," I mean it's something for people who are highly educated, who understand the importance of measures that combat climate change and can also bear the consequences. There are also a lot of people who go to the beach, stand on the dunes and see that the North Sea looks just like it did ten years ago. I am concerned about the following: is Mr Klaver not a shepherd who, when he looks back, has only followed him with highly educated sheep? How does he get the whole population involved in his plans for the climate law and in the need to take action?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u12	Thank you for this question, Mr Smaling. Let me just forget everything else you have said about my group colleague and take it as a remark that you also see her as a very valuable colleague with whom you are debating the climate. You ask me how we will ensure that this climate law and the fight against climate change are widely anchored. I always get a little annoyed by the statement that the climate is something of the higher educated, of the happy few. The happy few are not the first to notice climate change. No, the poorest in the world are the victims of the climate disasters that are already taking place. How do we ensure broad support? I very much hope that we can also count on your support, Mr Smaling, if we turn this law into reality, and that we can ensure broad support in Dutch society for tackling climate problems. How do you do that? By being clear about what we can and can't do. We must set limits on the continuous growth of CO emissions. If politics tells you that and stands for it, I'm sure everyone understands that, from high school to low school, whether someone's blonde and has a baking bike, like I'm a man with a baking bike, or someone's got an opoephytes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u13	I would like to comment specifically on the Netherlands. Mr Klaver and his colleague from the Labour Party outlined a spot on the horizon for 2050. Between now and then, a number of industries that emit a lot of CO may no longer exist because of innovation or because they fall over because they no longer have a earning model. Many people work in these industries, often with not the highest level of education. Does Mr Klaver foresee that these people will find other jobs, that they will receive different training and that they will have a future in which employment and activity will continue to exist?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u14	Yeah, I'll take care of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u15	That's very short.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u16	The question was if I could foresee that. Yeah, I'll take care of that. If Mr Smaling wants a somewhat longer answer, I would also like to give it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u17	I like a short answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u18	I am really trying to stay positive about what Mr Smaling is asking. I hope we can move together and be allies. Diederik Samsom and I are trying to do the same. We can sometimes put aside the differences between our parties. This will enable us to take a very big step forward. A climate law could be a very important step forward. Once again, I very much hope that Mr Smaling will support it and that we can work together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u19	I saw that outstretched hand last night in the television programme in which this initiative was presented. It is always very nice when colleagues invest time and energy in bringing initiative laws to the Chamber, so congratulations. I was wondering what timetable Mr Klaver had in mind. I have read that it is still a preliminary draft and that the initiators want to present it. When will we see more of this initiative law? Mr Klaver indicated that he might want to involve colleagues. So can he say a little more about the timeline?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u20	I'll make an attempt to sketch that. In the beginning of the new year we start the consultation. We have written down the best possible, but in all wisdom we cannot rule out the possibility of improvements. We shall then proceed with the submission. I don't know what that's gonna look like. We must ensure that it is done quickly, but we also want to ensure broad support. Those two need to go hand in hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u21	So we can expect something for the summer?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u22	This was the next step I could outline. I'm really glad we can put it together. Wide support and speed must go hand in hand. It would be great if this could be done before the summer, but if Mrs Van Veldhoven asks me to make a firm commitment, I am not going to give it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u23	Over the past period, the Christian Union and the Groenlinks have been increasing intensively in the field of energy and climate policy. On some of the dossiers we differ a bit, but on this file we can find each other very well. I have, of course, also taken note of the climate law and I am very curious how the Green Left Group will relate to opposition proposals in the coming months, if the climate law has not yet been adopted by both chambers. Are they still greeted with GroenLinks enthusiasm? Or has a new strategy been put in place, where we have to make a pass and perhaps wait some time?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u24	We're rejecting everything now... No, of course not. We keep doing what we always did. This is a law for the future. Yesterday and earlier, I indicated that if you're in the opposition, there's enough to cook with a coalition partner. We are trying to shape a law that is important for the future. All the good motions that will undoubtedly be tabled in this debate can count on our warm support, as they have done in the past. I am therefore very looking forward to continuing our cooperation, Mrs Dik.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u25	Mr Klaver said: this is a law for the future. I do not know exactly how he interpreted those words, but I do not think it is for nothing that this climate law was presented before the climate conference. There are, of course, many objectives in this climate law, objectives that differ from the debate that we have always had in the Chamber so far, where GroenLinks and the Christian Union wanted to go further, but not the majority in the Chamber. I find that significant and I am just very curious to see how this evening will proceed. GroenLinks will indeed continue to support these proposals, which are also included in the climate law. Let us wait and see whether we can actually do business tonight with a majority in the Chamber or perhaps only after the law has been passed by both Chambers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u26	Let me be clear. What the climate law says, we think it is now. This applies not only to the future, but also to the future. We will continue to work together with you and the other colleagues towards the climate summit in the months after and also until this law enters into force and beyond. What I very much hope is that we can also work with you to make this law a success and that we can find broad support here. We'd love to do that in front of you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u27	Mr. Chairman. Twenty years ago, the first climate conference took place in Berlin, and I was hanging from a chimney somewhere to protest against the emissions of a coal power station in the Netherlands. We are now twenty climate conferences ahead and we are on the eve of COP21 in Paris. Frankly, there is a great deal of reason to be pessimistic about what happened in the meantime. First of all, climate science has become more acute, and that has not brought a more optimistic story. Twenty years ago, because the photo was still vague, you could hope that with its sharpening, the consequences would be easy or the influence of man would seem limited. That is not the case. We now know very clearly where we stand and who is responsible for this. There is also reason to be pessimistic because we have seen what has happened to CO emissions in the meantime. We've gone north, to put it this way: go up hard, just go up and go up further. There was also not much reason to be optimistic about the many climate conferences that took place in the meantime, numbers 2 to 20. It was a procession where the monks of Echternach would become even jealous: three steps forward, three steps backwards sometimes. Too often we were at the end of a climate conference looking at the ruins of our ambitions: again we had not succeeded. There was also reason to be pessimistic about the European momentum. Europe was leading the way and wanted to stay ahead but sometimes lost heart. The fut looks a little bit like it. The same applies to the Netherlands. Not so much because we lost energy, or because our energy policy was too right-wing or too left-wing, it certainly wasn't because it was different every time. Typically Dutch we thought year after year that we could do even smarter with our energy policy. We changed the whole regulation and left investors in great confusion. They kept their money in the bank or continued in other projects, with all the consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u28	If I am well informed, Mr Samsom himself has advocated coal-fired power stations instead of nuclear, new power stations. That was about in 2008. Now I hear Mr Samsom saying that we are not entirely reliable in our policies, because we keep changing them. How does he look at that, with the words he's using now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u29	Unfortunately, we have been very consistent in one thing in the last 30 years in the Netherlands, and that was in the construction of coal power stations. We have continued to do this from the sixties to today. At the time, I did not argue in favour of coal-fired power stations. I did not want to choose either of them for the devilish choice between nuclear power and coal power stations, but as a coalition party we have sometimes accepted that other coalition parties attached quite a lot of value to, for example, increasing coal power. Then you go into a compromise country like ours sometimes do things that aren't your first idea. For example, in 2007 the permits were granted for plans proposed by a D66 Minister in 2002 which were later realised under the influence of a VVD Minister. For example, we all share our responsibility for energy policy over the last 30 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u30	I hear that the PvdA group wants to shut down coal power stations, and therefore quite new coal power stations, while a few hundred kilometres away there are very old coal power stations in a country like Poland, which emit much more than the coal power stations we have here. How am I supposed to see this in relation to the capital destruction and the longer-term reliability of us as a government?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u31	We are closing down all five oldest power stations in the very short term, and I assume you will support that. It is in any case in a broad-based energy agreement. And I'm proud and happy about that. In the not too long term, you could also close the remaining two, rather old, power stations. In the short term, so in the longer term, you should also close the last three. Those who want to combat climate change cannot continue to devoid of coal. You are referring to the power station in Poland; there are several but the largest polluter in Europe is indeed currently in Poland. In my view, it is a little more dense than those Dutch power stations. There are 280 in Europe. You only solve the climate problem if they breathe out all 280 in the next ten to fifteen years.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u32	I see the chairman frowning, but I have a very short question. What is the deadline for this to happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u33	We've agreed that interruptions go in two.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u34	As far as I am concerned, a decade or so would be a good target date for those last power stations. We now have only one generation left, our generation, to make the full transition to a sustainable energy supply. That's a task you could lose your nerve on. I say'maybe', because there are also many reasons to be optimistic. You can be optimistic about our generation. There has never been a generation so rich, so smart, so healthy and with as much as we have. If one generation can make the transition to a sustainable energy supply, it is ours. There is also reason to be optimistic about the climate negotiations, which are so difficult. We have learned lessons, for example, from the failure of Copenhagen and many other climate conferences. This time we are going better prepared towards Paris and this time the ambitions of countries that traditionally did not have these ambitions are at a much higher level. That ambition and optimism are not falling out of the sky. Nor do they come from all hard-working negotiators who already have 21 climate conferences with each other for a better treaty, although they are doing an incredibly important and good job. This ambition and optimism do not come from this square kilometre in The Hague, although we also occasionally do some very important work here. The real reason for this ambition and optimism is what is happening outside: the spectacular developments in the field of renewable energy and its spectacular cost reduction. If you look at what a solar panel cost eight years ago and what it costs now, you see a huge price reduction. Computers and other electronics can't match that. The price reduction often involves a factor of five or more. Progress has also been made in the Netherlands. After the remorse we all had about the ever-changing energy policy, an energy agreement was reached. This is the origin of the Verburg/Samsom motion, which was tabled at some point at the end of the last decade. There is a real energy agreement, which lays the basis for a stable energy policy, which we can continue with. We have to move on, too. There is as much as possible and we still have so many opportunities to seize. Tomorrow I will open the tidal power station in the Oosterschelde, developed by a new energy company in the Netherlands, Tocardo. It is now a 1 MW plant. You can imagine that it's a huge windmill that's underwater, you can't see and notice, but it does generate energy. That's the only renewable energy that doesn't come from the sun, but from the moon, because ebb and flow come from the moon. For the next 5 billion years, we'll be able to enjoy it, so let's do it. I'm gonna finish, but not after I've mentioned the other opportunities we have. One of them is offshore wind. Offshore can do anything to the Netherlands. If a ship sinks somewhere on earth or something else bad happens to it, the Dutch are called to make sure that it will be okay. We can do anything at sea. We can become the market leader in offshore wind energy and all the other things. Geothermics also offer an opportunity. Thanks to the sometimes high demands we impose here on drilling for gas, we are able to drill into the earth in any way we want. We can drill for gas and oil, but also for hot water for renewable energy. That ambition and optimism can be maintained and strengthened. Before that, Mr Klaver and I submitted the climate law yesterday; Mr Klaver already announced and explained that bill, so I can be brief. The climate law paves the way for the future and that road to the future begins, as far as we are concerned, in Paris.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u35	I am pleased that Mr Samsom has tabled a climate law together with Mr Klaver. I am sincerely pleased because Mr Samsom voted against our motion less than two months ago to table a climate law. That is a moving insight, and that can only be seen as a profit. How does it feel for Mr Samsom to capture his dreams of a better climate in a new climate law at a time when he, as the group chairman of a government party, is probably not up to speed again? We are talking about 2020. I wonder if the PvdA will still be in the government, but well, we don't know that. It is about what Mr Samsom can do now. Now he's on the buttons as group chairman of a government party, and now he's making climate policy run wild. How's he handling that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u36	First of all, I do not share your pessimism about the future of this country as regards the composition of the government by 2020. Secondly, in the current cabinet period, we have set out an ambition that in eight years' time more than quadruples the amount of renewable energy. If the next cabinet does so again, we will be ready for almost 100% renewable energy in one go. In other words, we have now done what is necessary, but it is only a start. To make the whole transition to a sustainable energy supply, you need more than one cabinet period. That is exactly why we wanted an energy agreement that could last longer than one cabinet period and therefore needed broad support. Then it doesn't really matter who's in the next coalition. Furthermore, there are other reasons why that matters a lot, but that is what other debates are about. The same applies to the climate law. If we can introduce this climate law, which stipulates that the government must plan ahead for climate policy for a long time, with broad support, we have the opportunity to get away from the delusion of the day, from the hectic and the many changes that are taking place here. Then we can put forward a stable policy for the future. That is precisely why we tabled this law yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u37	I fully agree with Mr Samsom that a climate law must be put in place to ensure consistent climate policy, but it is important that he now has the opportunity to achieve 25% greenhouse reduction by 2020 and that his government is being flagged back by the judge. Does Mr Samsom not want to live up to the ambitions he has so beautifully put into a climate law, to some extent already, and simply to turn this climate on fire?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u38	The cabinet, I presume.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u39	The cabinet, yes. What did I say?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u40	The climate!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u41	No, we shouldn't! The cabinet, indeed. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Shouldn't Mr. Samsom turn the cabinet on now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u42	You were talking about now and 2020. That's not the same time in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u43	No, exactly. It's about what you can do now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u44	You also mentioned 25% reduction. My group has long indicated that we want to achieve this 25% reduction by 2020 and, as far as we are concerned, we also want to achieve it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u45	Mr. Samsom is good with numbers. We all know that, and that is what we hear here. I hear a few figures in this story, which I would like to get an explanation of. On the one hand, Mr Samsom says that it is very important that there is stability in climate and energy policy. That is widely shared, and that is why there is an energy agreement that runs until 2023. Now there will be a climate law in which the ambitions are higher than in the energy agreement. The coal-fired power stations should be shut down within ten years, according to these ambitions. Are you going to close all these coal plants between now and 2025, or should it all be between 2023 and 2025? Is Mr Samsom going to start with these ambitions and this climate law sooner, or can all this only be done after the end of the energy agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u46	The energy agreement is bound to run until 2023. Of course, it actually runs until 2020. We have put a kind of reserve period on it, and I believe that D66 also agreed with it, because there was no other way forward with renewable energy, which we wanted so much. That's why we stretched it a little bit, until 2023. The climate law covers periods of five years. It is obvious to start with 2015, 2020, 2025 and 2030, but that can also be quite different. It depends on the moment when all of us would adopt that climate law. There is a logical reason why the law should start in 2020, because that is why the Paris period is starting. We would very much like to see the same five-year cycle agreed in Paris, in which the goals are placed further and further forward. Then it all fits well, because then we will close all the first five plants. As far as we are concerned, we will close the next five in the following period. So you could still make it to 2025. I would like to point out that I am happy to ensure that this is done throughout Europe. The cabinet is a little more capable of doing this than we are as simple Members of Parliament. Again, there are 280 in Europe. By the way, there are many more in America, but well, that is another continent. Those 280 coal plants in Europe should all be closed down in the long term. At least three of our coal power stations are one of the most modern in Europe, I say without chauvinism. So they belong somewhere in that term, but not at the front. The first five, the oldest, we close now. The other ones come somewhere at the end. I hope 2025 is a good year for that. It would fit exactly into the climate plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u47	I conclude that Mr Samsom believes that, although the energy agreement runs until 2023, we should come up with a new five-year plan by 2020. You will not continue the energy agreement until 2023, but you will come up with a new five-year plan in 2020. Part of this is the closure of coal plants. So we're going to have a new cycle. But then the climate law will have to be there in time. Mr Klaver said: just before the summer. Does Mr Samsom share with him that he might then be able to come to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u48	I certainly share that ambition, but I know a lot of stubborn people in the environmental world who all want to say something about it. I'm sure of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u49	I've been a Member of Parliament for three years. Over the past three years, I have put forward many proposals to combat climate change. I didn't just do that, I did it together with other groups. Other political groups have also tabled proposals: the SP, D66 and GroenLinks. I have a whole, not even exhaustive, stack of motions in my hands on the energy saving targets, on less investment in fossil energy, on the 2°C target and even on a motion for a climate law. All these motions were voted down by the Labour Party. I would like Mr Samsom to reflect on this in the light of the climate law he has now launched. Each and every one of these motions fit into that climate law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u50	Perhaps all these motions have inspired and contributed to the fact that we are now standing here with a proposed climate law. It could be. I don't know the motions by heart, Mrs. Fat. I sincerely regret that, but I do know how the dynamics here in the Chamber work. Many motions have been tabled which have not all been adopted. But they didn't all evaporate; they didn't all disappear. The process of reflection has continued with many groups, with Mrs Dik's, but also with ours. We have now tabled this proposal. With some irony and perhaps also slight sarcasm, Mrs Thieme already concluded that her motion of two months ago might be the basis of this climate law. I would like to give her that honour, because that is perhaps partly true; there are several inventors of this climate law. As early as 2008, Milieudefensie campaigned for it quite fanatically. Slowly but surely all those defeats add up, in this case to one victory.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u51	Then let it be a victory for the climate!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u52	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u53	That is why we are here today. Then let us not wait until that climate law has been dealt with by the two chambers. Today, on the eve of the Paris Climate Conference, the Labour Party has the opportunity to support the proposals from the opposition. I therefore urge the Labour Party to support the proposals that we are going to make tonight, and which will undoubtedly be made by other groups, so that the climate will eventually prevail.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u54	I fully agree with Mrs Dikk.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u55	The bill from the Labour Party and GroenLinks yesterday was a surprise. But it's definitely timed well. However, it brings me to a point that Mrs Dik also indirectly raised. Not so long ago, there was a court ruling on the case brought by Urgenda. The cabinet appealed back then. Several groups have indicated how very sorry they felt about that. This was obviously an opportunity and that opportunity wasn't taken. Now all of a sudden, there's this bill. I wonder how that goes within the Labour Party. Is it because of the Prime Minister's joke, the "Bert and Ernie" joke, that the Labour Party stands with the small cake point and the VVD with the big cake point that Mr Samsom thought: now I take him and I come up with the climate law? Or is there another process of thinking within the Labour Party that the rest of the Chamber has no idea of?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u56	I have a strong impression that the VVD is looking at that cake a little dirty right now. But that's another metaphor. The Urgenda case is not entirely separate from the climate law. It's about the same endeavor. We have discussed this before. The fact that the cabinet is appealing has been accompanied by the fact that the cabinet has announced that it will comply with that ruling. This professional case has to do with matters with which the cabinet can tire the Chamber: on case law and precedent. Let the lawyers and the attorneys get on with that! The House may think that this is a loss of energy, but I believe that it can still produce some knowledge about the operation of the trias politicians and so on. So I don't think it's wasted money or wasted energy. However, I am concentrating on the other intention with which the cabinet came at the same time, namely that the cabinet will comply with that ruling. And I'm gonna stick to that ruling again. This brings us together to that 25% CO reduction by 2020, which is just a step up to what is really needed: more than half by 2030 and almost 0% CO emissions by 2050.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u57	Am I right in saying that, perhaps inspired by Obama and the Pope, the Labour Party has now turned a page and is aiming for a sustainable future again, so that Mr Vos does not always probably have to vote against motions which he would be in his heart for?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u58	The list is now: Mrs Thieme, Mrs Dik-Faber, the Pope, Obama... No, fair is fair. We've all been going through this process of thinking for years. As far as the climate debate is concerned, I understand that Mr Smaling had a wonderful time with Mr Vos in the meantime. In the meantime, the thinking has continued and the possibilities continue. I've just described that it's not just blind ambition to set even higher goals. In the meantime, we also see what is possible. We also link reality to goals. A realistic progressive party like the Labour Party can be expected not only to look at what is possible and what is needed, but also to look at what is possible in reality. We see that so much can be done. I would like to give these opportunities all the space and certainty if we invest for the future. In this substantive consideration, inspired by all kinds of people, lies the birth of the climate law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u59	It is, of course, nice that many parties have inspired Mr Samsom to make this concept of the climate law. This debate is about the commitment of this cabinet to the Paris Summit. I would also like to inspire Mr Samsom by asking him the following. Does he agree with me that if we look at the industries that produce the most greenhouse gases, we should not forget the livestock sector and that the Paris cabinet should also mention this in the speeches it gives? Does Mr Samsom agree with me that we should ask the cabinet and that the cabinet should do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u60	I like to pass on the question. I assume that the Secretary of State, who probably had some affinity with the sector mentioned by Mrs Thieme in another department not so long ago, will also mention this on a number of occasions. Mrs Thieme said that this debate is about determining the commitment of the Netherlands to the Paris climate conference. Then it's a little bad timing, but so does she. We determine our commitment at European level. That is precisely the strength of this conference. There are already enough in which the cacophony is overwhelming. We therefore determine our commitment at European level. It has been defined and it is there: at least 40% by 2030. As far as we are concerned, we come back from Paris with such a strong result that the European Union can conclave with itself and, encouraged by the Netherlands, say: at least 40%, but the global agreements are so good that we can move the goalpost a little further. Let us not pre-empt this at this time. I told you there's reason for optimism, but there's no reason for hubris yet. Maybe that can still happen, depending on what happens in those two important weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u61	Of course there is a lot of harmony within Europe, but it would be a pity if the Netherlands did not also make its own sound as one of the largest agricultural exporters in the world. My appeal was also to talk about what citizens, businesses and governments should do to reduce not only meat production but also meat consumption. Does Mr Samsom agree with me that the cabinet should also be in favour of opening this discussion at least? At the moment there is still a very big taboo on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u62	I think we should all do that. As public figures, we can all say that being a vegetarian is not only good, but also good for the environment. We can also make many other beautiful calls. I like to leave that with people themselves, unless we want to make laws to promote it. That is why we have the climate law. The agricultural sector is quite prominent in this, as Mr Klaver explained.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u63	It is very good to hear Mr Samsom's ambitions. He himself says that he really holds on to the fact that the rest of the world continues with that at least 40%. We will have to go further, because what is now on the table is not enough. Then we, too, will continue as the Netherlands and as Europe. The absolute level is nice, but it's about what we're going to do. Does Mr Samsom also think that the Dutch share of this European objective should be clearly anchored, for example in the climate law he intends to submit?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u64	Yeah, that's what that climate bill says, too. A large proportion of European emissions have now become a single European reduction ceiling. Not yet functioning optimally, but in theory still by far the best instrument we have: the emissions trading system. If we agree -40% in Europe, the emission ceiling is set at -42%, I say out of my mind. Then we still have a lot of sectors out there. Then I think that the Netherlands should at least take its fair share in that and if it can go a little further. In the meantime, there is another mechanism, which is much better and far more effective than putting two sectors side by side. In the last letter of amendment to the Tax Plan, we reduced the rate on electricity and increased the rate on gas. The result could be that, as far as I am concerned, the whole Westland will go from gas-fired greenhouses to geothermals as quickly as possible. It takes a lot of power to run those pumps, but it's hugely good for CO emissions. This immediately leads to the CO ceiling. I believe that in 2030 we will be in a totally different relationship between emissions trading emissions and the non-ETS part, with excuses for the professional jargon. Now it is 50%-50% and by 2030 it may be 70%-30% or 80%-20%. That would be a win. With the last tax plan, we have given it quite a boost. That was inspired by something, too. I remember an amendment by Mrs Van Veldhoven's party.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u65	I was just going to say that I do not think Mr Samsom needs to worry about D66's support on that point. In fact, we are very much in favour of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u66	Mrs. Van Veldhoven might consider...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u67	No, Mrs Van Veldhoven has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u68	I like to think about everything, but maybe now isn't the time. The CO emissions are one side of the story. If we are to close down the coal plants, we must get the power that Mr Samsom wants to use to generate geothermal energy that I wholeheartedly support from somewhere else, namely renewable energy. We will have to generate much more renewable energy. We now have a common European objective for this too. Does Mr Samson think that, in order to prevent the Netherlands from being the one to have a disproportionate share in it, a national translation should be made of it and that you would be able to lay it down in such a climate law, so that everyone takes on their fair share, their fair share, of that objective?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u69	I'm not sure what Mrs Van Veldhoven means. The emissions trading ceiling has been in place since 2019, but in the next phase there will be no national translations at all. This does not mean that we cannot count on ourselves for a moment: which coal and gas plants are all here, what do we emit, we add up and then we have CO emissions to the west of Lobith and to the north of Vaals, so on our territory. That is not very relevant to global CO emissions, but it is good to know. For the rest, I do not think that is useful, other than that you can calculate that non-ETS part. I was not yet ready to try it with some parties, although that is not the case with Mrs Van Veldhoven's... to throw over the emissions trading system as an instrument or to nationalise it. I believe in Europe, however unhelpful it may be. I believe in European emissions trading and I want to strengthen it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u70	Thank you. Then Mrs Dik will have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u71	I have a point of order, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u72	Mrs Van Veldhoven, there is always a point of order. However, that does not mean that you are secretly asking a question to Mr Samsom.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u73	No, Mr. Chairman. I'm definitely not gonna do that. Of course, Mr Samsom is always free to comment. The point of order I wanted to make is that the question I asked Mr Samsom was not about CO or the ETS...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u74	No...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u75	No, I'm not gonna ask the question again. My question was about the share of renewable energy. I'm just reporting that so that the viewers who are following the debate understand that it was another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u76	We are holding the debate together. People can watch, but we're right here in front of each other. Mr Samsom has answered your question. I now give the floor to Mrs Dik for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u77	The subject of coal-fired power stations concerns us all, not least because of CO emissions. We have also seen in the report that CO emissions are now even higher than economic growth. I therefore fully agree that we must close these coal power stations at some point. How does the PvdA feel if we keep those coal plants, the few that are still in existence, for another ten years, which receive as much as 4 billion subsidies for biomass? Isn't that burning public funds, which ultimately no longer fits in with the sustainable vision that the PvdA and GroenLinks have shown today in the climate law?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u78	Within renewable energy you can place a ranking and biomass is certainly not at the top of the list. It's dangling somewhere at the bottom. It is renewable energy, of which we have all agreed here that we want 14%, no 16% of it by 2023. If you remove the biomass from that at the moment, you will never achieve that goal. We can all choose to do that, because that way we save money from subsidies, money that you can spend on something else. I'm not ready to choose. I believe that the increasing use of renewable energy is an important development. I am convinced that biomass will continue to play a role in global energy supply. Between 10% and 20% energy supply from biomass is needed, for example because we cannot let large ships and perhaps even aircraft sail or fly on solar panels. So a form of biomass is needed. The development of biomass continues as long as we continue to use biomass. However, there are considerations that could make you say: stop. One of the considerations could be that we would no longer have a coal power station in the Netherlands where biomass could be fired up. Then we'll just quit on our own. But then we also have to look at each other and say, together, that we will not be able to achieve that target for 2020 for renewable energy. We can't fill the hole we're creating very quickly with solar panels. Mrs Dik knows that too; we will not make it. We will have to catch up later on if we are to catch up. I say again: it is possible, but I am not yet ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u79	I hope that the Labour Party will be ready in the short term, because with 4 billion you can of course do a lot for the transition to renewable energy. For example, we can also work with a cookie obligation. I have another point. I can taste exactly where the Labour Party is sitting, even now with the climate law. We are on the eve of the climate conference. We aim to reduce CO emissions by 55%. That's what the climate bill says. Suppose tonight I am going to table a motion stating that this is the Dutch objective and that we should then pass it on to Europe. Is the Labour Party going to support that motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u80	At this point, such a motion would be untimely. We agreed that we would all go into Paris with a European sound. I can assure Mrs Dik that it is extremely important to hold on to that one European sound. I am not saying this because I would not want one green frog to jump out of the wheelbarrow and suddenly say: we want to go much further. I am also saying this because, on the other hand, there are a number of countries lurking because they want to reduce their ambition. Mrs. Dik probably knows this even better than I do. At the moment, towards the Paris Summit, it is of the utmost importance that Europe is united. So we must not let the Poles, the Slovaks and a few other Eastern European countries escape towards a much lower ambition, but we must keep all countries on track. That's important. After the summit in Paris, I will be the first to look at the outcome together with Mrs Dik. Depending on this result, we will have to decide what the new target for Europe will be for 2030. Then the debate in Europe will start again, under the Dutch Presidency. Is the target still 40%? This could be the case with a slightly disappointing outcome of the Paris Summit. Or do we move the goalpost a little further, which could be the case with an optimistic and successful Paris? Then Mrs Thick's motion will fall into fertile soil.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u81	Thank you very much for your contribution and your explanation, Mr Samsom. I call Mrs Van Veldhoven.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u82	Mr. Chairman. We actually hear two stories about climate change. One story is told by those who want to see the climate problem, but who also see it mainly as a threat to our business, our economy and our standard of living. They then wonder: why would we actually do it? The other story is told by those who see in vain a threat to our health, to that same prosperity, to our planet. This contradiction often runs right through the Chamber. Change will only come about if we get the climate out of that contradiction. Because somewhere we all see that something has to change. We also know very well that it is our generation that has to make the decisions on this because it is our children who are affected by the consequences. Today is the next thing in the paper. Every year, over the last 20 years, 30,000 people have been killed by climate change; every year. Today, 1 in 122 people in the world are drifting. If we don't change anything, a lot more people are going to think: Northwest Europe, that's where we need to be. They will come to that conclusion not only because of the income, but also because of the climate. Devoting to climate policy means not only preventing the earth from changing dramatically, but also combating the flow of refugees. One it means new opportunities for growth. I was just talking about the two stories in this Chamber, but in the story "new opportunities for growth," shouldn't we be able to find each other? I say to Mr Samsom: if these two stories are to be found in the Chamber, then we also have a better chance of stability. And-and so: taking care of the future with concrete opportunities for now. That is possible if we do a number of things. Firstly, the Netherlands is a delta, but we are not unique in the world. The people in Bangladesh are also struggling with floods, as are we. They depend not only on our money but also on our technology, skills and knowledge. That's where we'll find each other. We can help each other there. But the cost is for the benefit. Secondly, if we want our companies to have an opportunity to put Dutch innovations properly into the market, we must ensure that Bulgarian or Romanian companies also play within the same European frameworks, including in the area of climate and energy policy. Thirdly, if we want China and India to switch from coal to wind, we must also be prepared to take that fundamental step and decide that the Netherlands will stop using coal plants and invest in green energy, with all the opportunities it offers for other companies. I should like briefly to say a few more about these three points. Climate finance could be the breaking point in the negotiations in Paris. It shouldn't be. The largest growth in CO emissions is not in Europe, but in Asia and Africa. It is inconceivable that we should meet the 2°C objective if the countries in those regions do not participate fully, but they must have the money to do so. That is why my appeal to the Prime Minister is the following. Break through the deadlock, focus on adequate funding and take advantage of the opportunities it offers. Hit the bridge between those two stories. Make sustainable development a spearhead at the embassies. Ensure that Europe makes part of the revenues from the CO auctions available for climate finance. Make not only money available, but also knowledge available. Is the Prime Minister prepared to argue for this in Brussels? There must be a level playing field, including in the areas of climate and energy. The European commitment in Paris of -40% between 2020 and 2030 is only a common objective. If everyone is responsible, then ultimately no one is responsible. Germany goes to point to Poland, Poland points to France and France to the Netherlands again. So we're not getting anywhere. Will the Prime Minister, during our EU Presidency, ensure that there is a level playing field and that each country receives a national translation of these European objectives? I use the plural, as I say to Mr Samsom. Then it is not just about CO but also about renewable energy. The climate law seems like a wonderful place to anchor that. So I look forward to the proposal. Then I shall come back to the third point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u83	On the second point, Mr Samsom would like to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u84	Yes, otherwise it will stay that way, because I did not understand your question just now, Mrs Van Veldhoven, and you only got a chance to make a point of order. It will be clear: Article 2 of the Climate Law stipulates that the climate plans to be drawn up for five years will translate the targets into renewable energy and energy savings targets. Let there be no misunderstanding about that. It has to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u85	Very clear. I also assume that we do not have to wait for the climate law to come. We can already make this translation on the basis of the European objectives that come out of it. I welcome the support of the Labour Party on that point. If we do not want China and India to opt large-scale for cheap energy from coal-fired power stations that are going to weigh them up too, of course, then we must also do our own butter with the fish. In the run-up to the Paris Summit, we can now take the fundamental step: the Netherlands will stop coal-fired power stations. The Conservative colleague of the Prime Minister in England, where there is already a climate law, has already taken that step. Where is the Netherlands? D66 wants a plan for the phasing out of coal plants in the Netherlands. That is why we have tabled a motion to the Tax Plan. I call on the Prime Minister to do the following. Get off that stool in the second row. Make a statement with which we also get other countries moving again. Stay away from the false contradiction. Stay away from those two stories. Connect them. Take the chance. Make the Netherlands a serious player again in the climate debate, in the interest of countries like Bangladesh but also very much in our own interest. Stand up for the Netherlands. Stand up for the climate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u86	Mr. Chairman. The consequences of our addiction to fossil energy are immense. I am thinking, for example, of the people in Groningen, who are dealing with earthquakes. There is also more and more extreme drought and water pollution. Now you may think that this is a faraway country, but not so long ago there were low water levels in our rivers, which meant that inland waterways had to be shut down. There is salinisation of agricultural land and the failure of harvests. Sea levels are rising ever faster and there is extreme poverty in developing countries, which will increase. This also creates new flows of refugees. Soon, the Chambers Committee will go to the climate summit in Paris. The Netherlands is also represented there. However, the question, also for tonight, is whether we are making a credible story there. How are we doing in 2015? CO emissions are rising even faster than our economy is growing. The coal plants are working overtime. Minister Kamp wants EUR 4 billion in subsidies to go up in smoke in these coal plants, and even abolishes the coal tax. We can drive 130 km/h because it fits inside the ceiling. As a blow to the head, the government appeals to the Urgenda case, because the cabinet was pressed with the nose on all these facts. Now is the time to think: how do I leave this earth, our common house, as the Pope put it, for our children and grandchildren? We are the last generation to have any influence on the rise in temperature by reducing greenhouse gas emissions. And it's possible. I'm hopeful about that. We can learn a great deal from the creation that gives us solar energy and cycles. Every twenty days, the sun gives as much energy as all global fossil resources put together. Materials that creation gives us should not be wasted but recovered. Citizens and businesses have understood that very well. They're working on the energy of society. What does the government do? I come to the stakes in Paris. The Christian Union advocates an ambitious commitment by the Netherlands in Paris. Our ambition is to reduce greenhouse gases by 25% by 2020. Other countries, Germany and Denmark, account for 40%. Are we going to join these frontrunners as soon as possible? A sharper target is also needed for 2030. Europe now wants to reach at least 40% by 2030. It is good that the Labour Party and GroenLinks now also embrace the target of 55% by 2030. Is the Prime Minister taking over this bet? And will that also be a subject for him during the European Presidency? If we are to achieve at least 25% greenhouse gas reduction by 2020, we must make all the ambitions of the energy agreement concrete by means of measures. Now we're heading for 17%. If we meet the ambitions of the energy agreement, we are still short. The Christian Union therefore advocates the opening up of the energy agreement. I've argued that before. Does the Prime Minister agree that coal power stations should be removed from the energy mix as soon as possible? I refer to the argument of the 64 professors and the calculations of ECN. The Christian Union also likes to see more ambition from the cabinet to better promote CO. I would like to point out, for example, the excess of allowances within ETS and the far too low CO price. The Prime Minister said last year that it should be at least €40 per tonne. ETS should contribute to the energy transition, but is mostly in the way. Other countries therefore opt for a minimum price for CO. Will the Netherlands participate in making agreements on this? Dutch banks are also calling for an effective CO price. The world's poorest ultimately pay the highest bill of climate change we cause. The Christian Union finds the commitment to climate finance below par. At the moment, climate finance is at the expense of the poorest by using ODA budget for this. Isn't there a need for additional funding for climate adaptation? Does the Netherlands argue for a separate adaptation target in Paris? Is climate finance sufficiently poverty-relevant? Civil society organisations can really make a difference with local projects, but most of them are spent through multilateral institutions such as the World Bank. We hardly see the effect of this. Will the cabinet be more active in overseeing this? How does the government intend to ensure a higher climate contribution than the EUR 100 million in the Climate Fund? On the basis of our GNP, our prosperity, that is really far too little. Finally, I call on the Prime Minister to commit himself to a so-called carve-out in the climate treaty. In trade agreements such as TTIP and CETA we see all kinds of investment arbitrage. We know the examples of large multinationals demanding damages from governments on the basis of environmental regulations. We really need to rule that out in the new climate treaty. Is that also the commitment of the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u87	Mr. Chairman. Man is capable of a great deal. He's been on the moon and beyond in the universe, but being a little economical on the planet isn't easy. That is why there will soon be a climate summit. Climate change, as I have said before, has remained a fairly abstract concept for many people. It is therefore a good thing that before this summit in Paris we see a number of concrete things spreading around the world where climate change is clearly manifesting itself. For example, people who, from their background, do not have much to do with the subject can see that people in Bangladesh are really moving away because it is no longer viable and farmers in Africa and the Middle East are moving to the city because it systematically rains too little to grow enough food. This is necessary in order to bring the urgency to people's minds more broadly than just a group interested in this subject because of interest and background. The CO concentration in the atmosphere has increased enormously. That's a fact. Whether it's man-made or otherwise, it's actually pretty irrelevant. This higher concentration simply leads to an increase in temperature. We also hunt through a large amount of coal, oil and gas in a few generations, which was formed hundreds of millions of years ago. That alone is a very frightening situation. We have slow events, such as agricultural areas that are becoming too dry. But here there are huge pours of water, which leads to problems with foundations and sewers. The Delta Act provides for some of this with spatial adaptation and water safety. Part of the climate policy is already in the Delta Act and the Delta Fund. Of course, it gets more risky when you're going through big storms that have to do with climate change. It becomes completely risky when you come to a point where there are changes that can no longer be controlled. I don't know how many times the Prime Minister has time to go to the movies, but I can still recommend him the movie The day after tomorrow. That's a real B-movie; it's incredibly exaggerated. But when you see that movie, you have a bit of a sense of what it's like when the warm wave current stops. I'm not calling this movie because I want to exaggerate. Mrs. Van Veldhoven has just organised a lunch with fellow polar travellers. The pace at which the polar regions change is terrifying. You can say "I don't live there," but the changes there just affect the rest of the world. Now is also the time to realise as widely as possible that we have to deal with it. There is a proposal for a climate law. How does the government feel about that? What does she think of the accelerated closure of all coal plants? How are we going to Paris? Are we going to be purely behind the 2°C target and then go on and on and on and on and on and on and on and I'm just gonna call some bitterballs with the Volkswagen summit or something like that? Or are we really going to be more differentiated with the subject, as we have been advocating here for years? Do we talk about renewable energy about what we can save, what we can do more efficiently? I call the heat roundabout South Holland. Or what we can do more sustainable? Those are different options. What can you do with technology? What can you do by influencing human behavior? In this context, I refer to Drenthe and Groningen, where the large wind turbines encounter enormous problems because the people have simply not been taken. Furthermore, the question is where to use the stick and where to use the root. I think that a climate law can function well as a kind of stick at national level. There is already an Environment Act, which at local level provides that root. We're on our way pretty good in that respect. I wonder how the government looks at that. As far as the Paris Summit is concerned, I would like to ask the government about two crucial issues. How do you get people into the transition from what it's like now to what it's supposed to be like in ten years or 2050? Some of the interruptions were already focused on that. How do you highlight employment and purchasing power effects in the Netherlands and wider in the world? What are we doing with large companies that employ a lot of people and that are going to have to close down or switch to another model of earning? You can see that energy companies already divide into good banks and bad banks, E.ON specifically. That's going to happen, because the innovation is going on. There's got to be something to come back for that. A plan for how to move employment from fossil to sustainable is crucial. This is mentioned in the eighth pillar of the energy agreement, but it is not really specified. I think there's a job here. We can act as Europe in Paris, but then you already have a pioneer's dilemma because there are huge differences in the energy mix between European countries. The state has some of Paul Klee's painting. In addition, you have the developing countries. Please, let us avoid banning African countries or emerging markets from taking on the prosperity that we have appropriated over the past decades. That's not gonna work. I have heard that there are firewalls between European countries and Asian countries and emerging markets. That's the seeds of a lack of success. We can't have that. The Scandinavian parties are usually good at tying parties, but I would really like to invite the government to pick up that glove, also in view of the presidency that is coming after this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u88	Mr. Chairman. At the previous climate conference, in 2013, I was rapporteur in Warsaw on behalf of the Chamber. What struck me was the large number of officials and politicians. I was there, I looked at it, and I thought, "Where's business?" If we want to tackle climate change and reduce CO emissions, cooperation with companies, industry and knowledge institutions is indispensable. Together with companies, education and everyone of good will, the government must seek solutions. They often come from the bottom. Society, our entrepreneurs, students, researchers and good-looking minds are asking for that commitment. "Innovation" is the key word. It is our Willie Roots who can help with smart solutions to prevent the consequences of climate change. They can develop rice that can grow on salt water. There are potatoes growing in salty soil. They grow tomatoes that need 15 times less water than usual. They protect deltas in Southeast Asia from rising water levels and from more and more nuisances. As a government, we have to give society space, give it a helping hand instead of the ringing finger. The VVD is pleased that much has changed in the two years after my stay in Warsaw. Companies, knowledge institutions and civil society organisations are all now fully involved in the run-up to the Paris Summit. The question remains whether this role will be enshrined in the climate agreement. I ask the Secretary of State if there is any more information on this matter. What about the Lima-Paris Action Agenda, in which concrete actions are agreed with these parties, the non-state actors? How does this agenda provide concrete scope for our innovative agriculture and the transport and water sectors? According to the VVD, climate policy must focus on one objective, namely CO reduction, and preferably in a global context. This is why the VVD is strongly committed to strengthening emissions trading. That is our most important instrument. However, I also see opportunities for mixing fuels. We can also achieve additional CO reduction by exploiting the potential that raw materials reuse or the circular economy offers us. At European level, we committed ourselves to 40% reduction by 2030. The discussion on the legal status of an agreement has not yet been settled. Should we reach a non-legally binding agreement, what does that mean for the European objectives, for that legal framework? Will Europe then continue without the commitment of the world? The risk is that companies will move to other countries where the rules are less strict and that emissions will eventually increase; so Europe or the Netherlands will be poorer and the world warmer. According to the VVD that can't be the intention. At the 2009 Copenhagen Climate Conference, it was agreed that, from 2020 onwards, USD 100 billion, which is a huge amount, will be paid into a climate fund for developing countries. It is difficult for the House of Representatives to point the finger at what is going on in this context with demands and monitoring. In response to questions from the VVD, the Minister of Finance indicated that the Dutch contribution is financed from the development aid budget. That is a good thing, because it is often developing countries. For the VVD it is also important that the money from the fund is not used randomly. It's just gotta be hard-core goals and results. To what extent is the call of the Netherlands for transparency about finances supported by other countries? Will there indeed be tough requirements and arrangements for monitoring? For many, the success of this summit is determined by answers to the questions of whether we are entering into a legally binding agreement and whether we can remain below the renowned 2°C objective. The VVD is realistic. Both targets do not seem to be within reach now, but that is not a big deal in itself. 175 countries have now made their contribution. In Copenhagen, only 37 countries did, so the profits are huge, especially when you see that there are the big outbursts, such as America, Japan and the emerging economies China, Brazil and South Africa. However, if we look at the legal status and the 2°C objective and look only through the European glasses, we run the risk that the success we have already achieved, namely the broad international willingness to contribute, no matter how small or large, will be undermined. I think that's a shame, because we have to cherish this. The glass is not half empty, but half full. There is reason to be optimistic, especially if you look at the opportunities for the Netherlands and if you look beyond your nose is long.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u89	My voice is starting to break up a little bit, but I'm doing my best. Mr Dijkstra says that he attaches great importance to an international agreement. Now we see that climate finance will be a very important factor, because depending on it, there will be a genuine international agreement or national pleasures will remain crumbled again. Let's say we need more money on climate finance. Is Mr Dijkstra prepared to offer the Cabinet the opportunity to use more climate finance, knowing that it also offers opportunities for Dutch business, if this is necessary for the conclusion of the global agreement? After all, that is another point of discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u90	I agree with Mrs Van Veldhoven that climate finance, apart from the contributions, is a major issue at the climate meeting. Of course, it's a penny issue. There's a big pot that needs to be filled, and it's also being filled. The Netherlands is already making a substantial contribution to this and will do so after 2020. It's a pot of structural $100 billion a year. That money's got to come from somewhere. I'd like to turn it around. Let us first look at good projects before we put extra resources into them. If such a large pot is managed, I believe that the share we deliver should benefit the knowledge and innovation we have in the Netherlands. It would be a shame if we were to transfer hundreds of millions, or perhaps billions, and our dredgers and the people of Wageningen University would then be sidelined, while others would benefit from that money. That's a shame.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u91	D66 and the VVD share the view that climate finance offers a lot of opportunities and that there are many opportunities for us to develop projects to help the rest of the world to grow sustainably. That is why the contradiction, the question of whether climate policy is good for our economy or not, is not there either. It is an opportunity, and that is how we must seize it. 100 billion a year is a large amount, but the promise was that it would be additional money. The discussion with the developing countries who are asking for it will therefore be about whether the money that is now on the table is sufficient to make that 100 billion additional. If it turns out that this is not enough, does Mr Dijkstra think that the importance of the global agreement is so great that we should at least be open to discussion? It cannot be that such a large agreement with such a large objective would be lost because of a relatively small amount of money.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u92	The Netherlands can do a lot, but our space is limited to our development aid budget. It's important that you see it in perspective. The Netherlands is not alone, of course. We are part of the European Community, with 27 other countries that are also contributing. There are also many other countries, such as Canada, the United States and Japan. Of course, the Chinese also benefit from getting over the bridge. Climate change affects everyone. To say that the Netherlands needs to do more... Imagine if we added something to it. You have to see it in perspective. I think it's a what-if question. I think the question is too premature.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u93	Please continue. Or were you ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u94	I was done with my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u95	Mr. Chairman. The question of how much global warming doesn't all scientists agree yet. However, that will not be at the heart of my speech. Nor will I raise the question of the extent to which man is responsible in this debate. There are still many questions about global warming. The PVV remains sceptical on this point. However, what I would like to devote my speaking time to is the observation that it would be very unwise to lead the way with measures to reduce CO emissions. The Netherlands is currently responsible for about 0.5% of global CO emissions. It is therefore an illusion to think that the Netherlands can save the climate. Even Mr Samsom will agree with that. The next climate summit in Paris should lead to a global agreement between all countries. Until now, this has never been possible, and it is not likely to succeed. India is already resisting making binding agreements. China, as the largest producer of CO, is likely to successfully try to impose a slightly more favourable condition. This will enable China to gain a competitive advantage. That's just where he's in the big danger. The Netherlands does more than other countries and thus weakens its competitive position. Such agreements will inevitably lead to a transfer of wealth to China. Our globally competitive companies will then start producing more expensive and that will lead to job losses in the Netherlands. We continue to warn against this. The climate law presented today in broad outline by PvdA and GroenLinks shows exactly the same problem. These two parties want the Netherlands to do much more than the rest of the world. The Netherlands should close coal plants and become dependent on much more expensive energy sources, such as wind energy, solar energy and so on. This will create some jobs in this sector, but on the other hand it will cost a lot more jobs. Given the small share that the Netherlands has in the total CO emissions, that's 0.5% of the total CO emissions, it will also have a negligible small effect on the climate, if you already believe in it. Today we read in De Telegraaf that the closure of coal power plants will not only lead to higher electricity prices. It will also be possible, for example, for Poland to buy the allowances, in order to launch that quantity itself. In that case, you have damaged the economy, but nothing has been achieved for total CO emissions. That's not so smart. One argument that advocates of far-reaching climate agreements is that alternative renewable energy sources will automatically become profitable. We agree with that. But if, for example, solar energy or wind energy becomes really profitable far away from the sea, so that it is not visible from the coast, then companies and consumers will want to switch to these energy sources themselves. So we don't need the whole climate bill. The PVV is of course in favour of new technology. The PVV is not at all against solar energy, wind power or even modern, safe nuclear energy, such as thorium plants. However, we are only in favour of this if it is profitable and it does not affect people. It also has to be safe, of course. A wind farm far away from the sea, so that no one suffers from it, is of course beautiful. At the moment, however, this can only be achieved with a great deal of subsidies. These subsidies are paid by our citizens and our companies. Already half of our energy bill is made up of taxes. Developments are not standing still. No one in this room is against clean energy. Nobody wants to waste energy and of course we would also like to buy less oil from the oil sheiks in Saudi Arabia. But we have to be honest. The early cessation of fossil energy, as proposed by Mr Samsom and Mr Klaver, is likely to cost us a lot of wealth and jobs. I am therefore looking forward to supporting the authors of the climate law in terms of costs for citizens, job losses and the relocation of production abroad. We will also be following the climate summit critically, because this summit seems to be more about who is going to pay what. It is very doubtful whether China, the US, India and all those other major pollutants are going to participate equally. The Netherlands has a relatively clean industry. Moving production abroad will therefore only cause more pollution. The PVV wants energy to remain affordable. It must not be the case that the Dutch citizens are going to pay the price of the sustainable dreams of Mr Samsom and Mr Klaver. The taxes on car fuel, natural gas and electricity are already far too high, and they should not get any higher. I'm rounding up. The ambition of left-wing parties in particular to move far too quickly to today's unsustainable renewable energy is very damaging to our country. The PVV has great concerns about the future affordability of energy for Dutch citizens if the PvdA and GroenLinks get what they want. China is currently building 155 coal plants and 26 nuclear power plants. In this light, the closure of modern coal power stations in the Netherlands is very unwise. That means a massive capital destruction of billions. Natural gas from Groningen is risky and natural gas from Russia is much more expensive than coal. The PVV is not against energy saving or cost-effective renewable energy, but we should not let our citizens bear the costs. Citizens and businesses in the Netherlands have already been taken up enough with environmental taxes to subsidise all this non-profitable sustainability nonsense. As far as we are concerned, therefore, the climate law of the left-wing group chairmen can go straight into the trash.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u96	Mr. Chairman. The climate conference will start in Paris on 30 November. Much has changed since the first climate change conference in 1995. The fact that our human activities affect the climate has now become common ideas. It is important for ourselves and for future generations to stop the further increase in CO emissions, thus limiting global warming. According to the KNMI, the code is orange for the Netherlands in terms of climate. The Netherlands suffers from increasing precipitation, rising sea water levels and a more varied river water level. The Netherlands therefore has a direct self-interest. We can also use our knowledge of water in a positive way in the rest of the world. Our innovations can help other societies. It is certainly also our ambition to set targets for 2030 and beyond with a global climate agreement in Paris. In the meantime, without these international agreements, the European Union, China and the US are already opting for less CO emissions and more renewable energy. In addition to the climate agreement and national commitments, climate finance is a very important issue on the Paris agenda. It is very important that major global investors such as ABP choose to operate more sustainably and to include concrete CO reduction targets. Let parties like the ABP be the trendsetters, because this is how the change really comes about. The ABP is right to want a healthy return for its members at the same time. With this, it opts for a more structurally sustainable balance, which further enhances our prosperity and well-being. Our compliments on that. Climate funding focuses on adaptation measures, i.e. reducing the effects of change. These are also mitigation measures, i.e. reducing and preventing climate change in other countries. This has been promised by the so-called richer countries at the previous climate conferences from 2010 onwards. We believe that the debate should focus on the objectives that we want to achieve with climate finance. Instead of starting with the question of how much money we need to raise, we need to avoid writing blank cheques. So far, the cabinet has not been able to make us sufficiently clear exactly what the Netherlands is contributing to the discussion and what it wants to do about climate finance. The CDA would like the Prime Minister to work for a win-win situation for the contribution of Dutch industry. How are we going to ensure that our own companies and knowledge institutions, which have a great deal of knowledge and expertise in this field, can contribute to climate change mitigation and adaptation? The CDA believes that current public funding through, for example, the Dutch development bank FMO and companies' investments in climate projects should be counted as financing climate adaptation and mitigation measures. Does the Prime Minister agree with the CDA? Is that what the Cabinet's putting in there, too? Should it not be reflected in the Paris agreements, will the cabinet still be committed to this? The CDA is also convinced of the added value that non-state actors have, such as companies, organisations, local authorities and, not to mention, residents, to whom the SP also referred. To what extent does the Prime Minister see the possibility of including these considerations in the Paris agreements? Our country has an excellent position, particularly in the field of agriculture, with Wageningen as the best agricultural university in the world. Climate change affects food security and the agricultural sector is an important solution in the fight against climate change. In Rwanda we saw that erosion-based hills with the help of the Netherlands were made sustainable again by the construction of terraces, on which agriculture could take place again. New trees were also planted. In Uganda we saw that Dutch money from the FMO also built a very large hydroelectric power plant. Is climate-smart agriculture explicitly included in the agreements, so that Dutch companies and institutions can help countries with climate change projects, which we can benefit from ourselves? From the Netherlands, the Alliance for Climate-Smart Agriculture has gained experience and Minister Kamp has announced in the media that he wants to bet on monofouling. My question to the Prime Minister is whether he would like to continue with the Clean and Economical Agri-sector Agreement and how he intends to implement it, including financially. The CDA supports the government's efforts in Paris. Together with the Cabinet, we are going for an ambitious climate agreement and for a strong involvement of companies, organisations, local authorities and certainly our residents. The CDA wishes the negotiators a great deal of wisdom and success in this exciting final phase.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u97	This was a fine contribution by Mrs Mulder. The CDA's stewardship sounds in it. I'm happy about that. I was very curious to see how she is looking at an initiative like a climate law that, whatever our political colour, not only keeps it to fine words and long-term objectives, but also obliges Cabinets to come up with climate plans and climate budgets. How's the CDA in there? Can we work together on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u98	The CDA has already indicated what we are looking at when dealing with the Economic and Social Committee energy agreement. What does it do with employment? What does it do with innovation? How do we get the support from the bottom up? We see that sometimes windmills are placed and that then whole communities drift apart in our midst. If that's how we're doing that energy transition, then the CDA thinks we're not doing well. Especially the SP is always on our side, to see how it can be done in a different way. So we will always look at those three points. If we then, from our Parliament, instruct our society to make a proposal, with parties from left to right at the table, from Greenpeace to business, and who then comes to an agreement, then the CDA thinks that we should also give people the space to carry it out. Now I see one group after another taking down the Economic and Social Committee energy agreement, so it comes to us at least, and that is a pity. Of course, next year we will have to evaluate this whole energy agreement with each other and then we will have to take new measures. Do you have to put all that into a law now? The CDA doesn't have to. We can see how difficult it was to make those appointments until 2023, but it has been extended to 2023. Then I think: how much reality does that plan have until 2050 now, if you know that so much can change in terms of technological innovations along the way? So I am very curious about the outcome and I look forward to seeing the plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u99	Let me take advantage of the latter by seeing it as a CDA hand-off, because it is important that we work on a broad basis here. The law that Mr Samsom and I have come up with actually says very little about what techniques you should use. That's because we can do a lot but we don't know what the world will look like in ten years' time. What we are doing is defining a process, ensuring that politics does not, as has happened in recent years, postpone the matter for itself, but that it begins to reduce CO emissions. Could Mrs Mulder state that I am looking for a little more ground to go on, that at least she agrees that we are going to record that politics is taking steps every year to reduce CO emissions? The way in which this is done will have to be re-established each time. In any case, it is a matter of agreeing that CO emissions should be reduced and that we should make legal provision for this. Is that a principle that the CDA can agree to and which we can also discuss further in order to work together on this issue?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u100	I heard several people in the media say something in the vein of "well, then there are a few tens," because it is always very easy done about it, especially among certain happy few groups. However, the CDA has great difficulty with this. So if such things cost our residents money, usually that's how we have to make sure that the transition takes place from below, otherwise our residents will never say they're willing to pay for it. We also see some negative effects of that energy transition, for example in Germany. The burden will then be especially on the people with the narrower scholarship. I have a problem with that, because it is all those hard-working families here who have to bring it together. So we will always look closely at the affordability and reliability of our energy supply. The CDA has always argued for an energy mix and it will always do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u101	We're gonna suspend for dinner break. The rulers can also prepare themselves for the answer at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u102	Mr. Chairman. I will answer the questions relating to national policies, European agreements and funding. I shall then turn to a few other questions. The Secretary of State will address the questions relating to adaptation, the climate agreement and what is and is not in it, the ETS and climate-smart agriculture. She will also answer the other questions that directly answer her. I will start with the climate law, the initiative of GroenLinks and the Labour Party. I would like to say a few things about that. We know that the cabinet is currently working on the compass of the energy agreement. This brings the Netherlands clearly on course to a number of ambitious objectives until 2023. For the purposes that are not likely to be met, the Energy Agreement Committee will make further proposals in December. The cabinet itself will also look into this, against the background of the recent court ruling. Next year, the cabinet will make proposals for this, also in connection with the ibo CO. We also need to look at how we proceed: what do we do when the agreement expires, towards 2030 and 2050? At some point, in this cabinet period or in the next cabinet period, we will have to discuss with each other the way in which we set these objectives also for the longer term. Against this background, we will look at what the climate law will look like and how the announced social consultation will take place. My first impression is that it will be a matter above all that will play an important role in formation and formation. The question of coal-fired power stations is connected with this. Some professors, I believe, were 64; I didn't know that there were so many professors in this field, but that's good news, and others have said a few things about this. In the energy agreement, we agreed to phase out the most polluting form of energy production in the Netherlands. That is why, as of 1 January 2016, we will introduce new efficiency requirements for our coal plants, as we know. We know that five out of ten or eleven power stations in the Netherlands are no longer capable of meeting these requirements. Against this background, operators have announced the closure of these plants. As I said, we are considering, in the light of the recent court ruling, what measures the cabinet should take in 2016. We also include the ibo CO. The closure of all coal plants is part of that research. Of course, that's one of the options you're looking at. I would add, however, that the closure of all coal-fired power stations entails a number of effects which need to be weighed. What are the actual effects on the climate? We'll have to map it. In addition, the demand for the affordability and security of supply of our energy plays a role. They must be guaranteed, and everyone will agree on that. It is not possible to rule out the need to import electricity from abroad by shutting down coal-fired power stations. This electricity can come from lignite or coal-fired power stations. We know that in North Rhine-Westphalia, for example, that is a state with an economy of the same size as or slightly larger than that of the Netherlands; the population is about the same size as the lignite mines are in full use again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u103	I assume that the Prime Minister is aware that Germany has set itself an ambitious reduction target of -40%. If the lignite plants are to turn harder, there is a need to reduce more elsewhere. There should be no waterbed effect to Germany.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u104	Of course, you can set all kinds of goals. If the lignite mines are reopened, I am very interested in the way in which they are going to achieve this objective. Then I'd like to see a lawsuit there, too, and I'd like to know how it ends.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u105	I know that the Prime Minister is a fan of having his policies adjusted through lawsuits. He has now had a number of these trials, not always in favour of cabinet policy. The waterbed effect on Germany that would occur is, of course, limited by the objective which Germany has set itself, namely a 40% reduction. Doesn't that make sense to the Prime Minister's fear, which he apparently shares with D66, that more will happen there? Indeed, more than what is happening with that 40% reduction cannot be achieved in Germany.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u106	It is becoming complicated to assume that Germany will meet these objectives without delay if those lignite power stations are now running again and the open brown coal mines are open, including in a state such as North Rhine-Westphalia. With the Atomausstieg, it has been decided to close all nuclear power stations, I think there are 23 remaining between now and the middle of the next decade, out of my mind. I want to be very careful in this because I am now interfering with the internal affairs of a friendly nation, but I am questioning... let me put it this way: I commend Mrs van Veldhoven for having so much faith in an objective in itself. I always look under the water for a moment at what happens in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u107	The Prime Minister is working out a list, yet he still pleads for coal. His final point is that we must import electricity if we do not have those coals, but I think that can be removed from the list. You have to import those coals, too. Several MPs have been with Minister Ploumen in Colombia. Those coals even have the nickname "blood coals." That gives a bit of an idea of the circumstances in which they are mined. So you still have to import something, whether it's coal or direct power via the cable to Norway that's there. It's still import. That argument can therefore be removed from the list.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u108	I do not think that immediately, because the coal power stations to be closed are very modern. In addition to the five plants that are already closing, there are two more such, but there are also three supermodern ones. They should be closed. I am not talking about the origin of these coals, because that is a separate discussion that affects human rights policy and the rule of law. From an environmental point of view, you have to ask yourself what the effect would be if you closed down very well functioning, modern coal power stations. I don't rule out that you have to take such a step at any time, but just think from the postulate of the 64 professors who say it has to be done by 2025. If more polluting coal plants of an older type abroad would have to supply our electricity, so apart from lignite plants, you are definitely working on that waterbed effect that you do not want. I hear someone saying 'exactly', but that comes from the corner of the Green Left Group, so that can't be right!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u109	That's true, but my follow-up question would be if you weren't making yourself part of some sort of priest's dilemma. If we do it and the others don't, you always have the point that it's more polluting somewhere else. That's not gonna make any sense. In the eyes of the Prime Minister, that would lead to a complete standstill if you continued to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u110	No, I'm not saying that. In view of the longer-term objectives, we are looking at all options, including in the context of the recent ruling in law. One of these options is the closure of all coal plants in the long term. That's one of the variants we're looking at. These 64 professors go much further. They say that at least it has to be by a certain date. Of course we are looking at this option, but I would just like to comment on it. I've mentioned two now, but I've got two more. The first comment concerned the actual effects. The second comment relates to the waterbed effect on more polluting lignite and also more polluting coal plants.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u111	And what are the other two?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u112	I do have two more. The first has already been mentioned by Mr Samsom: in order to achieve our renewable energy targets, it is also necessary to look at the additional and mostly renewable biomass in the coal plants. It's over 1% right now, but if you did this rigorously, you'd lose it. Finally, you have to look very closely at the economic costs of phasing out. That's where the VVD'er speaks in me, but I'll mention it anyway, because it's important. We will have to look at the costs that this entails for the State, especially if these plants have not yet been written off economically. In this context, I would also like to refer to the implementation of the motion by Jan Vos c.s. We're always working on his motions. The motion also calls on the Minister for Economic Affairs to look specifically at the legal and financial economic aspects of the closure of coal power stations. This is, of course, an important point of attention in this context.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u113	I recognize those four conditions, which are also laid down in a D66 motion. I also fully agree with those four conditions. Although the Prime Minister does not fully express his appreciation of these conditions, I believe he is sending them in a certain direction, say a worrying direction. I would remind the Prime Minister that we also intend to save 100 petajoule, which is quite a lot, on energy. That's exactly the first five coal plants. You don't have to raise it anymore. We also plan to put many windmills, to be precise 12 gigawatts, at sea and on land. That's the other five coal plants. In other words, thanks to the energy agreement, we are replacing all the coal power in the meantime. We therefore have less to worry about whether these conditions are being met. Does the Prime Minister agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u114	Before I give the floor to the Prime Minister... I thought we had the Dutch commitment to the climate conference on the agenda. I'm starting to feel like we're talking about a still to be submitted initiative law - Samsom/Klaver. I do not want to ban it entirely, but I would like to highlight the point before I give the Prime Minister the floor for the continuation of the evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u115	I need to clear up a misunderstanding. It is not my intention, where I draw attention to the accompanying concerns, that Mr D66 has rightly drawn attention to this in a motion not yet put to the vote - a certain colouring in Mr Samsom's ears. I do, however, underline them, because they are important considerations which count in a possible decision to close the remaining five or six coal plants. I have also said that, in the context of the recent judgment, we are obviously looking at all the options. This is also an option that we are looking at: the phasing out of the other coal plants. But those 64 professors are going one step further. They say they have to close on a certain date. Then I say: wait a moment, if you do not phase out this far in the long term, but say that by 2025 the comments from the motion tabled by D66, if you put them on that short term, will be even heavier.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u116	Those 64 professors said: 2020. I'm looking through the hairs of the eye about a lustrum. I'm glad to find out that there has been no dent in the prime minister's indestructible optimism. Here too, we can work together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u117	Always optimistic.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u118	I didn't know if I'd interrupt the Prime Minister, but I have to. He started right off with the doom that if we stopped our coal plants, we'd have to import lignite. But those 64 professors, I mention the number 64 only once in their letter, also indicated that for the coal plants that we phase out, gas plants are coming back. You should get that gas from Norway. What specific objections does the Prime Minister see in this regard?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u119	I do not say more than that, if you were to phase out the other coal plants, you would have to complain about the answer to these questions. I am not saying that they will all occur or that they will occur to this extent. But these are real comments. You're gonna have to see to what extent they occur. That is what you have to consider when making a decision about "or" and "at what rate."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u120	The problem lies not in the question, but in the examples used by the Prime Minister. He's acting like if we shut down those coal plants, the world would be worse off and we would import worse energy. Those professors have just been working on a plan in which they have tried to overcome it. The Prime Minister would be right to refer to it and not to come up with all sorts of doomsday images of what might happen. So yes, if he wants those questions answered: fine. But please stay away from that waterbed effect and that we should import much worse power. That does not have to be the case at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u121	No, you don't have to, but I think you should consider it. What I thought was sensible in the D66 motion is that these different aspects should be mentioned in it. I'm not saying they're all gonna show up. As far as I understand the author of the motion, neither does D66. But it's four relevant points that you have to consider. They will not all occur, not all of them to a heavy degree either. In the end, the answer to those four considerations determines whether and especially at what rate you do it. That's my point. In doing so, I dealt with two issues which were quite important in the media and which were more close to the Paris Summit than they were directly affected by the climate debate held on Monday and then COP21, namely the coal power stations and the climate law. I've come to a number of other things. Mr Smaling asked how we could take people into a transition towards 2050 in the field of employment and innovation. We will have to agree that innovation is crucial to counter climate change and that otherwise we will really get stuck. There are so-called "lock-in" effects, as mentioned in various contributions: you eventually get stuck in the old thinking. Techniques that have been very expensive in the past are now being used more and more and are becoming cheaper. I refer to the use of renewable energy sources, modern non-polluting energy sources. I'm thinking solar panels and electric cars. You are now seeing huge changes, step changes, which make these techniques more attractive. This also leads to employment. The Secretary of State and I have been on a trade mission together a few times. At that time we were talking about agriculture, where we will tell the Secretary of State so passionately about it, and we will do a great deal about it, including on climate issues. We were just whispering to each other that it would be nice to go together on a trade mission soon to put away some of the achievements of the Netherlands in the field of adaptation in full width, but also, of course, the whole question of modern technology, and thus to make money. The VVD also called attention to this. My answer to Mr Smaling's question is that I agree with that basically. I would therefore like to underline the speech made by Mr Remco Dijkstra of the VVD on this subject. An issue which has been referred to by Mrs Van Veldhoven relates to cooperation with industry, sustainability as a commitment of the embassies and so on. This is actually the same thing. I am absolutely convinced of the opportunities to work with industry as a government. I very recently had the pleasure of receiving the Prime Minister of Bangladesh after detailed preparatory work by Minister Ploumen and Minister Schultz. We work intensively with Bangladesh to share knowledge. I'll be in Paris on Monday and attend a meeting of the Delta Coalition. In it, the Netherlands cooperates with all the sensitive deltas in the world, precisely to share knowledge and involve companies. In my speech, I will draw attention to the fact that they land four metres below sea level at Schiphol Airport. We recently saw the beautiful image of a Dutch artist at Museumplein in Amsterdam that shows that, if there were no dikes, the water would reach the roof of the Rijksmuseum. Very impressive! We've done it. I have said it many times: the Netherlands should not be there and yet it is there, because we have won the battle against the water. The sustainable use of the Dutch embassies is a fact. In the field of water, agriculture and energy, we have major programmes to promote sustainability. In addition, we spend much more on climate projects in the Netherlands and abroad than the revenues of the ETS. It might be good to report that, too. In the Dutch budgetary system you cannot establish a direct link between revenue and expenditure, but I assume that if we spend more than those revenues, that will not be a problem for D66 either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u122	Of course that's not a problem. In fact, it is precisely from the opportunity approach outlined by the Prime Minister that I would say that we need to add a little bit more, also because we ourselves have so much to gain from it. As far as climate finance is concerned, my proposal was also made by my colleague in the European Parliament to see if you can put aside some of the total amount of money available in Europe, so before it goes to the Member States, if Europe can set aside some for climate financing. All countries then pay in proportion and so there is a level playing field, but in the negotiations, where climate finance will be a crucial issue, you could take another step. What does the Prime Minister think of that proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u123	It is about the proceeds of the sale of climate finance allowances, as I understand from the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u124	Yeah, but not by country. It's about the new phase. Take a piece of it off first, divide the rest among the Member States and use it to give Europe an extra boost to climate finance, if necessary, in the negotiations that are going to be very difficult at that point? I am not asking the Prime Minister to do so alone as the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u125	No, I get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u126	Use this if it is necessary to bring about these negotiations on such an incredibly important global agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u127	I'm not sure. I'm not saying I'm against it, but I doubt it. You then link a funding ambition to a source of income. That is complicated: an ETS revenue source and an ambition to finance it. We also have, of course, the agreement of the 100 billion climate finance that we have to achieve every year from 2020. The deal's up. We now stand at about 62 billion. Don't ask me how they calculated that, but the OECD is usually quite precise. So we are in the direction of that 100 billion by 2020. There is another point: I think that in the end you will have to take business with you, even in the 100 billion. However, what Mrs Van Veldhoven is suggesting does not stand in the way. So I am not against it in principle, but I do think that we should continue to work together in future debates in order to see if that is a viable way forward. There are also risks when you link a funding ambition to revenue sources. Then it may also be the case that the first immediately indicates the limit of the second. That may not be something we want by definition.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u128	I will reflect the Prime Minister's optimism on this. I am optimistic about the fact that he says: I do not reject it, I am going to investigate it and let us see if it can make a contribution. I would like to continue the discussion with him on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u129	Good plan. Having said that, I come straight to a few other funding questions raised by the Chamber in the first term. For example, a call has been made for better involvement of the EU civil society in climate finance. That point has been raised by Mrs Dik-Faber, among others. Then, of course, we are also talking about the Green Climate Fund. It is not the case that the Dutch commitment to climate finance is only that contribution of 100 million to the Green Climate Fund. We are also investing through bilateral programmes and through civil society, indeed. If you add that up, it will amount to EUR 340 million in public funds this year. In 2014, more than a third of the funding was spent through Dutch NGOs. Almost half of them focused on adaptation. We would also like to see this internationally. That is why we at the Green Climate Fund are calling for half of them to go to adaptation. We will also call for more attention to be paid to this in Paris. I will take part in this event, yes, I will do a lot of that Monday at a UN meeting on climate, where we will contribute a Dutch contribution to adaptation together with the Dutch Red Cross and other Partners for Resilience. Moreover, we do not advocate an additional objective for financing. We have a funding target for 2020, and that is 100 billion, from multiple sources. This is the direction in which we think. I have answered Mrs Dik-Faber's question on the Green Climate Fund. Mrs Thieme asks whether climate finance should not be substantially increased and made additional. We are, of course, aware of the commitment to mobilise US dollars, 100 billion by 2020, for climate. That's a tough deal. It has recently been repeated by the European Finance Ministers once again that this is our commitment and that we stick to it. That's what we're going to Paris with. We are on the right track. According to the OECD, in 2014 we were already around 60 billion or even 64 billion. That is what we are working on in the coming years. In the Netherlands, many donors are part of international cooperation. We choose win-win. This means development cooperation for water, agriculture, energy and climate. That's where the added value comes in. I think we all want to avoid too much fragmentation. The VVD has asked the question also that is recognizable how we are going to monitor that money is well spent. That too must be done. I agree. This applies, for example, to the money from the large funds. This can be done fairly well in the climate, because the reduction of CO can be determined per project. In addition, the Netherlands wants to achieve results on water management and climate-recoverable agriculture. Minister Ploumen for Development Cooperation reported on this in the Results Report on Development Cooperation. This is mainly about the people we reach. The quality of reporting on the results of a fund is a standard requirement for the Dutch contribution. Those organisations shall be reviewed annually. The same applies to the climate funds and also to the Green Climate Fund. We also discussed with the Chamber yesterday how to make that spending even more transparent. I therefore believe that we are pulling on the same side of the rope here. There has also been talk of private commitment and the inclusion of FAO loans. I agree with Mrs Agnes Mulder of the CDA. We must use all the instruments we have to promote climate investment. I refer to subsidies, loans and private investments. This also fits in with the Copenhagen agreements. There they talked about "finance from a variety of sources." This year, we are committed to mobilising 100 million in private investment through public-private instruments, such as the Sustainable Water Fund and the Sustainable Agriculture Fund. That's what we're going to report to the UN. Moreover, we have not yet notified the loans, because there was still an international discussion on how to do that. We're gonna work on that this year. This is a substantial contribution, which we will report as of next year. We will make clear in the report which part of the grant is and which part is a loan. The FMO is a leading player in the field of climate. Can I say that again here? In Paris, for example, the Climate Investor One is launched, in the presence of Mrs Ploumen, the Minister for Development Cooperation. That fund will make more private funding available.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u130	My colleague Joël Voordewind is certainly going to discuss the issue of climate finance when dealing with the external trade and development cooperation budget. However, I would also like to address this issue here, because of the forthcoming climate summit. The Prime Minister outlined that loans and guarantees could also be part of climate finance. To be honest, that seems a little strange to my group. Loans or guarantees are loans or guarantees, so no real monetary contributions to the created climate fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u131	That's true. Exactly that is why we want to indicate in the reports exactly which part of the loan is, what part of the grant is and how one and the other relate to each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u132	Can I take this as a commitment from the Prime Minister? The contribution to the climate fund must be a total of 100 billion dollars worldwide. Does the Prime Minister say that the contribution of the Netherlands to the Climate Fund is really a financial contribution from the Netherlands? Is he saying that this will not take the form of a loan or a guarantee?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u133	I believe that this should be discussed further. The debate on how we finally get that 100 billion and what the Dutch contribution to it will be has not yet been fully completed. For example, there is still a debate on what exactly should be the level of the Dutch contribution to the 100 billion. In any case, we agree that it must come from the pots of development cooperation. That's the choice we made. However, it is indeed possible to try to attract private resources. I have just outlined this and it is also part of the policy. I do not believe that this is a discussion. Then, of course, the question is asked about loans that you may grant. The investment for such a loan is, of course, a public contribution. If the deposit is revolver because the money comes back, it is of course a question of whether that is a net contribution. I could, of course, give a brilliant answer to that question here, but since I see Mrs Dik standing before me now and I want to make sure that that answer is right, I would like to have some official advice on this. So I'll get back to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u134	In the second term, I presume?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u135	Yes, in the second term, or perhaps even in the first term if the answer comes through quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u136	The CDA considers it important that these loans and guarantees are taken into account in all of this. After all, why should free money be better than a loan or a guarantee? We want to achieve goals. For example, developing countries must also be willing to contribute to this. The question whether this money is received in the form of a loan or in another form is less important for the CDA. After all, it is a question of achieving our goals there. It may even have more value if the money comes in the form of a loan or a guarantee. Then the countries must do something for themselves. If the Paris agreements do not specifically reflect on the role of private funding, will the government still be committed to this if we go for five-year plans?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u137	Yes, it is. We believe it is very important that the mix of sources of funding continues to play a heavy role in private financing. However, Mrs Dik's specific question was whether the loans were part of that. I have a great deal of sympathy for what Mrs Mulder is saying about this, but I want to be sure before I reply in the affirmative. That is why I have just said that I am going to be given official advice on this, because I am not sure whether there have been previous debates between Minister Ploumen and the Court of Auditors which are heading in a different direction. I just want to make sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u138	The FMO has started with a start-up capital of around 600 million euros. That's at 2.1 billion now. So this form of financing works like a tierelier. Let us use these forms, which may be new to many others in the world, because that is sustainable in the long term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u139	In any case, we agree on that. There's no discussion about that. The question is whether it counts for the 100 billion. I want to make sure of that, so that I do not give an answer that deviates from what has been said earlier. So I'll get back to you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u140	There is still much to be learned about climate finance. We think it is important that it is transparent and that we make tough demands and goals. But are we the only ones in there? Are we doing so at European level, or is the cabinet itself going to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u141	The quality of the funding.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u142	Exactly. And I'm talking about monitoring it, linking targets to it. Are we alone or are we going to do so at European level?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u143	I'm gonna take a look at the Civil Service class. I assume that, if we do this nationally, we also consider it important that this happens at European level. There's a strong yes nod. Yeah, we're gonna check that too. It made sense to me, but I just wanted to make sure. Yes. Look, sometimes you can get your official advice with a nod. On the previous subject, that was a little more complicated. I'd like to double-check that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u144	In the meantime, Mr Smaling has decided that he also wants to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u145	The Prime Minister talks a lot about adaptation, "adapt to." I'm getting the impression that's the upper hand. Then it sounds a bit like the Prime Minister is going on trade rather than on climate mission, because the difficult side is precisely the "against', the mitigation. I have the impression that he will come back satisfied when the order book of watermanaging Netherlands is filled again. But that's not the main objective of our presence in Paris, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u146	Mitigation and adaptation go hand in hand. I can fully reassure Mr Smaling on this. But let us not be alarmed if the Dutch business community creates jobs here because it can sell its wonderful techniques elsewhere in the world. That's just good news. Even the SP can't stand that!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u147	I wish. Adaptation, River Space, Meuse Works, Delta Works. Of course! Brilliant! The Netherlands is at the forefront of this. I will certainly not deny that, but there is also the difficult discussion about mitigation. This is about the things the Prime Minister said a little more difficult about, about what we should do with these coal power stations and about how we should deal with this whole transition with ports in Rotterdam and Amsterdam that are completely full of coal, petrol, gas and oil. How we convert them into a more sustainable system is a completely different story. That goes hand in hand, but those are two very different hands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u148	Yes, in itself I agree. Those hands are very different, but so do we with our hands. This hand is sitting right here and this hand is sitting right there, but still, look at this, they go very well together. Well, not quite. If I shake Mr. Smaling's hand, it'll be easier; shaking your own hand is a little more difficult. But I agree: those are two very different things. I fully agree with Mr Smaling: mitigation can sometimes be extremely complicated and 'au', but it has to be done. But as far as adaptation is concerned, let us not be alarmed if we earn a little dime from it. I see Mr Smaling thinking: I agree. And that's good. Then I come to the translation of European goals. Then I come back to the agreements we made in Europe in October 2014. The room already knows it. I'm not gonna name them all. We sail on that compass. Can I put it that briefly? Renewable energy is an EU target that has not been translated into national level. Less energy use is an EU target. There will be an evaluation in 2020 to increase this if necessary. We also have the greenhouse gas reduction target compared to 1990. We want to make this objective binding, including for the Member States.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u149	How did such a European objective actually work? Does that help to give direction, including to Dutch policy, knowing what the other countries are doing? Or did you have a bad baby? How did such a binding objective work?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u150	Excellent! The Dutch target of 14% renewable energy rising to 16% is typically an objective related to the whole issue of renewable energy. This is an EU target that has not been translated into national level, but look at it: that is where we have national targets. In addition, we have the whole issue of reducing energy consumption by 2030. We see this in the Dutch energy agreement in the number of petajoules we want to reduce. That's what we do at national level. Last year I tried to achieve a binding renewable energy target in the European Council. That was also the subject of a chamber motion at the time. That was not possible at the time, however, in the European Council. We're not going to argue for translation again, because then you're going to keep banging on that same door.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u151	I am pleased that the Prime Minister shares my enthusiasm for a national binding objective. So I think it is important that we do so for the next period, if the translation of that European objective into national targets for the past period has been successful. The Prime Minister may be afraid that he is hammering on a closed door in Brussels, but I was with the Energy Commissioner the other day, and he wants exactly the same thing. Is the Prime Minister at least prepared to work with the Commissioner during the Dutch Presidency, at least to probe whether that door is still as close as the Prime Minister is now sketching? It is clear to me that there is room in Brussels. I am pleased that the Prime Minister shares my enthusiasm on this point, so we can work together on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u152	To speak to Joop den Uyl: two things. First of all, once you've tried to open a door and if you can't, you can try again; that's always true. However, I do think that, after the Paris Summit, let us hope for a successful outcome, let us have a more fundamental discussion about the CO reduction target and the added value of the other reduction targets. I have to say that, at some point in the European debate, it can pollute if you say that you have all the other objectives besides your main objective. These objectives sometimes work against each other. If they're interspersed, it's a little different, but they're not always interspersed. It can also be quite high in the discussion with Poland and other countries. It doesn't always help us. Anyway, we got a line in there. That line is that we are sailing on the compass of these three objectives. The energy agreement now states that the two non-CO objectives also have clear national percentages. I am not going so far as to anticipate what comes after the energy agreement. Of course, I hear very well what Mrs Van Veldhoven says about this, but we will have to discuss this further in the direction of 2020 and 2023. I will continue my speech with the developing countries. Aren't we going to deny them their prosperity with that Paris agreement? The main concern for developing countries is that the agreement will limit them in their development. That, of course, is not the purpose of the agreement. The idea of national contributions to the Paris Agreement is that everyone does what is in their power. So everyone makes a contribution according to their ability. My commitment, and also that of the European Union, is to convince developing countries that development can also be sustainable and not lead to irresponsible global warming. We know the means of climate finance. That's how we help these countries. I was in South Africa with President Zuma last week. The South African president is leading the 77-year-old club and China in these negotiations. There too, I see the thinking moving forward in the direction of: how can we make a sensible contribution in the context of COP21? I come to the question of the greenhouse reduction target. The Chamber adopted a motion by Mrs Dik-Faber requesting that a target of at least 40% be retained. That's the bet. This means that if other countries also show ambition, we as the European Union can talk about how we are going to achieve that goal. That's in line with the Jan Vos/Remco Dijkstra motion. But first we look at what other countries do very precisely. According to the Dik-Faber motion, the target of at least 40% has now been set. We have committed ourselves to the Paris Summit to achieve this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u153	I love it fast, but this was very fast. Africa has 54 countries and then President Zuma comes along. I didn't get the full picture of the Prime Minister. He says the climate agreement is going to cost jobs in developing countries. Did I get that right? Of course, you don't have to. There are numerous opportunities to help Africa set up rural electrification projects in a sustainable way. I'll put it first, if that's what they want. We shouldn't say, "You have to do this, you have to do it." That need is there, and I'd say look it up. But if the Prime Minister treats the developing countries in half a minute, I fear that the Netherlands will not make sufficient efforts to get what is in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u154	I did not say that I assume that jobs are being lost in developing countries; that was not in my text. I said that we should work together with developing countries in order to achieve a sustainable way of working that does not lead to irresponsible global warming. We realise that they have been in a special position and that climate finance decisions have been taken in this context from 2020 onwards. There are indeed huge opportunities. On some of these subjects, we have the restraining edge. They can, of course, get a head start right away. Money is available for that. Only, I would guard against classical thinking to divide the world into all the other countries and the 77 plus China. There are great differences in that whole group of countries. It is impressive how many countries have now pled national targets.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u155	I am very pleased with the latter, because that is what I intended in my contribution in the first term. But let's take a look at Africa. One country after another finds oil: Ghana, Sudan, Chad. All those countries that didn't used to have that, which were just street poor, seem to be on a lump of oil all of a sudden. How is the Prime Minister going to deny these countries the right to use that oil for their own prosperity development? And if he is not going to do so, how is he going to take them into his arms to either not skip that step or to speed it up so that sustainability gets a chance there too?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u156	That's what we're gonna do as a world. I was not going to take a tour of Africa and tell them to shut down the oil wells. That's not how it works. We are working towards a climate agreement involving the whole world. I have always objected to the division between North and South, which I find old-fashioned in modern relations. South Africa runs that club. South Africa was until recently one of the fastest growing economies in the world and is Africa's most powerful and developed country. It helps in Burundi and Darfur to resolve conflicts in the region. It takes its leadership. This shows that the club of 77 is a somewhat old-fashioned way of thinking: the developed world against the developing countries. You will see it again in the WTO context. We really need to get rid of that thinking and make sure that we make good agreements worldwide. This also means that we have to look at what it can contribute per country. There is a lot of money available, soon 100 billion a year, to help countries with climate finance to achieve climate goals. I am now going to the improvisation department that, for example, the extraction of oil or gas takes place with the most modern techniques available for this purpose and with the least conceivable pollution. Money is available for that. Mrs Dik-Faber spoke about the loans. Mrs Mulder also referred to this in an interruption. I have the exact answer now. Loans now count for full value according to the OECD. That's the deal, the standard. Many countries report loans, for example Germany. The Netherlands has not yet done so. The OECD is still in the process of determining what is the best method. We are also doing this in cooperation with other major donors, such as the United Kingdom and Germany. Above all, we want clarity on this point. This year, in cooperation with FMO, we are going to develop and promote in the OECD framework that we all apply the same standard. At present, it is quite acceptable that loans should be fully included according to the OECD system. We have been asked for the interim increase and make the ambition binding. We also want to agree in Paris on an interim tightening of efforts on the basis of a kind of rolling five-year plan. One of the thoughts is that this is from the Paris conference. We are looking for ways to record those contributions in the agreement. Then, of course, in the countries themselves, we have to consider whether they can and want to contribute to this, but then, of course, we will talk about the next round of ambitions. First of all, we need to see that we can live up to our existing ambitions. Mrs Thieme asked if I would pay attention to agriculture. Yeah, I'm gonna do that. We have an agricultural system on which the Secretary of State will go into detail in such a way as to be one of the most modern and environmentally friendly in the world. I have been asked what I am doing with the Thieme motion of 3 December 2014. Climate negotiations are now global and not targeted at specific geographical regions. This means that the drillings in the Arctic region are not included in the climate negotiations in Paris. The Netherlands will be committed to identifying protected areas, but as we have no say in this region, it will always have to be done internationally, gradually and, of course, in cooperation with the Arctic states. We're working on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u157	I can't stop the Prime Minister and the Secretary of State for the Environment from having a little talk about climate-smart agriculture. I expect to hear another nice version of that later. However, this was not an answer to my question. I asked if the Prime Minister is prepared to state in his speech that livestock farming is the number one cause of greenhouse gas emissions from all energy consuming industries. I believe that this should be recognised by the Netherlands and that this should be higher on the climate agenda. That's my request. That the Prime Minister then says that the Netherlands can solve this very nicely through climate-smart agriculture is fine with me, although I do not agree with that. The main issue is whether the Netherlands wants to stimulate the debate about livestock farming as the number one cause of greenhouse gas emissions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u158	That's not how I'm gonna do it. In my speech, I will say that tackling greenhouse gases in all kinds of sectors is necessary. This is about energy and, of course, about agriculture, but also about transport and other sectors. Measures are needed to adapt our energy system. We also need to look at other ways of tackling and combating greenhouse gases. I'm going to pay attention to that in my opening speech. However, I am not going to highlight agriculture as a major culprit, because I do not think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u159	It's not about what the Prime Minister thinks, it's about the facts. If we look at the facts, we can only see that livestock farming is the biggest cause of greenhouse gas emissions. That is why I ask the Prime Minister if he is prepared to do so, especially since the Paris climate summit is not about agriculture. The negotiations are not about agriculture. I would very much like the Netherlands to be the frontrunner in getting that on the agenda at the next climate summit. Then you must dare to name the elephant in the room first. You must dare say that it is the most polluting sector in the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u160	I refer to my previous reply. I'm not gonna do that along that line. I just outlined how I'm gonna do it. I'm not gonna specifically highlight agriculture.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u161	Why not? I can't get an answer to that all the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u162	Because I think it is sensible that we face the fact that there are all kinds of sectors that contribute to greenhouse gas generation. This applies to the energy sector, the transport sector, other sectors and also to agriculture, and to livestock farming within it. As the Netherlands, we have a great deal to offer the world in this area. Mrs Thieme does not think so, but the Secretary of State and I are convinced of that. Moreover, I did not intend to include that promotional story in my input, perhaps with just one example if I cannot leave it alone. I'll try to hold back, because I understand that's desirable. However, I am enthusiastic about it because we have one of the most beautiful agricultural sectors in the world. We should be proud of that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u163	I fully agree with the Prime Minister. My question concerns the contribution that the ABP wants to make to the reduction of CO. We were just talking about the deployment of the FMO. That is an important, more public, financier. This might be a little bit on the edge. Do we count that kind of contributions? Is the Prime Minister prepared to look together with the financial sector to see if there are any more possibilities? I see he's already busy checking whether that falls in or not. It is, of course, great that one of the largest funds in the world wants to invest in this way. If a lot of funds are going to do this, we have already arranged a lot of climate finance directly, without the public authorities only having to invest.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u164	Meanwhile, the ABP is chaired by a prominent partner of Mrs Mulder's party, but that is no reason for her to ask this question. Let me turn to the matter itself: we are going to find out whether that counts for climate finance, because we do not know that very soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u165	The Norwegian fund also tries to take very ethical action. The ABP is the third or fourth largest fund in the world. We should be proud of that. The Netherlands has a lot of that kind of larger funds. How could we use them even more effectively? I'd like to hear that in second term. And, of course, I'm proud of my party mate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u166	You're right. I always am. The ABP is an insanely beautiful pension fund. I was in Japan recently. There they have the largest pension fund in the world. That's four times the size of the ABP. The ABP is now, depending on how you look at it, the second or third of the world and has a huge international reputation. Dick Sluimers of the ABP was there and made a big impression. This is a specific question we're looking into.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u167	I hear the Prime Minister talking about giving $100 million to Africa. I hear him talking about agreements with all kinds of countries and about the closure of coal-fired power stations. The Prime Minister has talked about everything, but I haven't heard him talk about the citizen at all. What will the citizen notice? Isn't he gonna pay a lot more? At the moment, half the amount on our energy account goes to the tax. Can the Prime Minister also stand up for the citizens and make an appointment with them? Can he give the citizens a guarantee that the energy bill will not continue to rise as a result of all of Mr Samsom's subsidies?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u168	It's funny that the PVV sees a distinction between us and the rest of the Netherlands. I think we are all here for the whole of the Netherlands. In my opinion, the deal we are all presenting to the Netherlands is not very complicated. This is because in the longer term we have energy security and make ourselves less dependent on all kinds of fossil fuel suppliers that often come from regions that are experiencing great instability. We also have our own national challenge in Groningen, gas extraction. We must also note that there is, of course, a change in the climate at the moment. We're talking about global warming. This is a problem which requires an adequate response. That's what the people expect from us. If there are major changes, the people expect politics, including Mr Madlener, to respond. The people then expect us to do so intelligently. That means you're spending your money as smart as you can, and if you can do it a little bit, you're gonna make money. That also suits the Netherlands. The Netherlands is a trading country. If there are problems, the Netherlands always likes to make money with them. For example, we are very good at solving the food problem in the world. We are also very good at solving the water problem, both the shortage and the excess water. That's what we do here. That is extremely important, because we should be proud of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u169	To be honest, I do not think it is such a big deal when 100 billion is given to often corrupt countries, countries with friendly policies. My question remains. What does this mean for Dutch citizens? They are already paying, because half of the amount on their energy bill goes to tax and that amount goes up and up. What I hear here means, in my view, that there is a great chance that Dutch people will have to pay more and more for their energy and that this will cause people to get into trouble. The Prime Minister makes agreements with Europe and all those countries, but what does he agree with the Dutch citizen? Can he guarantee that the Dutch citizen will not spend more and more on energy costs in the coming years?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u170	I have just outlined the agreement we are making with the Netherlands. I can only imagine that Mr Madlener agrees with that agreement. I also agree with Mr Madlener that it would be wasted money if we gave away 100 billion to corrupt regimes. So neither do we. You have to help countries in a smart way to eventually get involved in this big change. You need to check that out, and if you can do it a little bit, you're gonna have to make some money out of it. And so do we. I think that's good news. Mr President, I politely suggest that you give my highly valued colleague, the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and the Environment, the opportunity to answer the other questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u171	I will take that into account. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions:
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u172	Mr. Chairman. Of course it's very tempting to have a flaming general introduction now, but I'm not going to do that. I think it is important that I keep those words for the negotiations in Paris, because they will be badly needed there. When I look through the hairs of the eye at the different positions in the Chamber I'm still quite new on this file I find it striking and very good that those positions are much closer to each other than it seems. It is important that, in fact, all the political groups are committed to achieving the European target of a 40% reduction by 2030, which we committed ourselves to. We have also committed ourselves to the fact that it must become a legally binding agreement. That's what we're going for. That will therefore have absolute significance in the Netherlands. An important step has already been taken with the Energy Agreement, which the Prime Minister has already mentioned. I think it is right, as Mr Smaling said, to change the words'mitigation' and 'adaptation' into two actions which mean that we are going to emit less greenhouse gases and that we are going to adapt at the same time to the warmer world that is to come. With this you can also make a fair attempt to achieve the far-reaching ambition of course there is always a difference in taste in this area and the MPs have tried each other for a while on this and to get the broad support that there are in the Netherlands, also within Europe and worldwide. I also note that we are really ahead of the goal we have in Europe worldwide. We really have a leading role from the European continent. That's good. It also means a few things. I sincerely hope that it will succeed in converting this into a good agreement in Paris. I also recognised what Mr Dijkstra said: it is really special that 169 countries have committed themselves to actions. What does it mean, however, if there is no overarching agreement? In fact, he has already made a contribution to this in his contribution. These actions stand out. That is not what we are going to get back to in our own way. In some countries it is already laid down in legislation. Mr Dijkstra asked what it means if there is no legally binding agreement for the European objective. As has already been said, the Netherlands is in favour of an agreement that is as binding as possible in Paris. At the same time, we want to get all the countries on board. That does require a few special steps to a number of "giants." However, the objectives set by the European Council in October 2014 are set out. The objective of at least 40% has also been submitted to the UN as the national contribution. It is also relevant that the European climate and energy package was not made dependent on the creation of legally binding outcomes in Paris in 2030. That is what we have committed ourselves to in Europe. The same applies to other countries. The contributions to which Mr Dijkstra referred, the INDCs that countries have put on the table as their commitment, are largely unconditional. That's what's needed. Mr Samsom rightly said that investors need certainty in the longer term. People want to know where this world is going in terms of sustainability. We can offer that certainty. For example, two countries that have already adopted implementing measures are the US and China. Mrs Dik asked whether it was not necessary to set a separate objective of adapting to the warmer world. That's the story about the adaptation. The problem with this is that climate adaptation in the world involves different problems in different places. Nevertheless, we have a joint responsibility. I very much agree with her. The objectives for Paris are climate neutrality, but also climate resilience. The Netherlands attaches great importance to the fact that we name both sides. This is also very important in relation to developing countries, for example. They are already reaping the bitter fruits of climate change. We should also be aware of that side of the story. So it's en-and; they go hand in hand. The situation in the Netherlands, of course, also has a lot to offer in this agenda. The Prime Minister has already said a few things about this. We live in a fragile delta and our experience and technology can also help others to increase their resilience. I would just like to say to Mrs Thieme: I will have an even more beautiful story about climate-smart agriculture in a moment. I'm going to say something about the targets in another block... It doesn't help; she wants to ask you something already!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u173	I was wondering if the Secretary of State, if she's going to keep that story about climate-smart agriculture, would mention that it's about mega-stables. Then we all know what it's about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u174	You can look at that subject differently and think about it differently in society. At the same time, you can see that with this type of stable, we are achieving the environmental objectives. That's the hard part about this discussion. Mrs Thieme knows that, too. There are a lot of reasons, for example, from a social point of view or because of animal welfare, why you can look at issues in a certain way. On the other hand, climate targets have already been set for the agricultural sector in 2008, on which I was allowed to send a report to the Chamber in 2014. However, I am a little ahead of the rest of my speech, when it appeared that the 2020 targets had already been met. I'll explain in more detail what happened then.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u175	I would like to return to the separate objective of climate adaptation. For the mitigation part of the climate approach, we have clear targets, for example a CO reduction of at least 40% by 2030. There are no specific objectives for climate adaptation. I understand that it is difficult to express it in percentages, but there is something between 'it has our attention and we are working on it' and concrete percentages. Is it a passable way to think about that with each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u176	We should do that in Paris anyway. This issue will certainly be part of the agenda, and rightly so. I do not see how that can easily be converted into percentages, because the question is then what you want to "score" on. That's gonna be tough. I think it is quite right that a country like the Netherlands should put this issue firmly on the agenda. We are already doing this in the run-up to the Paris negotiations. We need to be an ally of, for example, the Small Island Developing States, which are involved in this, but also of the other developing countries affected by climate change. It has to be put on the agenda with extreme urgency, and I will certainly do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u177	Is the Secretary of State prepared to examine with the other countries it is talking to whether it is possible to set an objective so that not only the noses are in the same direction, but also a common goal is being pursued? After all, an objective can help with more commitment and a greater sense of urgency. The bet is there, but maybe it needs a little extra.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u178	I am trying to think about what this could bring, but I think it is more important that we set ourselves the objective of putting it on the agenda in Paris and perhaps including important issues in the final conclusions. It must be invested through actions by different countries, including the Netherlands, which is indeed already making a good contribution on various dossiers. Both on the water dossier and the agricultural dossier, the Netherlands is leading in making an alliance. Last year's ocean conference, for example, dealt with climate change and issues such as how to make fishing sustainable and prevent pressure on the system. In addition, we are really at the forefront. I intend to continue to do so, but I do not see how you can make a concrete objective for this, but perhaps we can come to concrete conclusions. I will continue with my speech. Mr Dijkstra asked about the implementation of the Lima-Paris Action Agenda and what concrete actions are under way or are yet to be launched. We are already working on a concrete implementation of the action programme, including sustainable transport through the so-called Climate and Clean Air Coalition. The Netherlands is also active in tackling short-lived greenhouse gases from landfills. We do this, for example, by linking companies and making Dutch expertise available. The Netherlands has signed the New York Declaration on Forests. We contribute to the Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition. We are also committed to making countries and cities resilient to climate change. The delta coalition we have with Colombia and Japan will be presenting itself in Paris on 2 December under this agenda. So there's a whole list of actions going on. Mr Klaver has rightly asked whether we are also prepared to commit to agreements for international air and shipping. The cabinet, together with the European Union, is committed to global agreements for air and shipping. The agreement should also include a provision to do so through the UN organisations dealing with these sectors, i.e. the ICAO and the IMO. Next year, in an international context, it will be decided in ICAO how this price for aviation emissions is to be applied. A global aviation emissions trading system would be a good opportunity for this. Mrs Dik-Faber asked whether we could prevent the so-called investment arbitrage from being included in the climate agreement. The answer is yes, it is not part of the negotiations. In fact, ISDS is generally included in trade agreements and not in the climate agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u179	I know of situations in European Member States where, for environmental and climate reasons, energy supplies have been affected, for example by the closure of a nuclear power plant or the intention to close a nuclear power plant, so claims have been made to those Member States. That is what I want to avoid, and that is why I am calling for a clause to be included in the climate treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u180	I do not see that as something that is going to be possible. I do not have the impression that this is going to create a fruitful position for us, because they really want to keep it very clearly separate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u181	Yes, but if we say that we want to achieve this 40% reduction in 2030, for example, and we want to implement it and those measures, then the situation is going to arise that companies face disinvestment, less income and so on. They're gonna sue the state. Of course that is their right, but of course you do want to avoid billions of dollars being spent on a matter that we do pursue with each other. There will always be transitional periods, etc., but there will have to be some way of avoiding such disproportionate claims.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u182	I don't see that happening. This is an element that has not been put forward for nothing in another discussion as part of the trade-off. You're just dealing with that. I do not now see any possibility of including this in the climate treaty. I don't think that's gonna happen. So we need to be clear about that. You can try to reason it away by saying that we are making an international treaty about it, but that of course does not prevent companies that struggle at a transition from taking their rights. Sometimes that's granted, other times it's not, of course. Then I will stay with Mrs Dik-Faber for a question on the minimum CO price. I think it is important to say that, in the longer term, we are looking to strengthen the entire ETS system. We are now in the process of introducing a so-called stability reserve, and the Commission is also putting forward proposals to strengthen the ETS in the longer term, thereby creating a more stable and higher CO price. This is important, because it is precisely with this higher CO price that, as it were, certain forms of energy are becoming less and less interesting throughout Europe. So if you have the objective of achieving a great deal of reach in this area, then of course you must also be able to steer through that price mechanism. A minimum CO price is not an option at the moment, but perhaps for the longer term. You certainly shouldn't rule that out in the longer term. Then I'll get to agriculture. Mrs Mulder asked if the cabinet would continue to focus on climate-smart agriculture. The answer to that is yes. Agriculture has been seen for a long time, which in itself is understandable, as the cause of, for example, the greenhouse gas problem. However, you can see that there is also a tilting going on in the world as regards the image of what agriculture may be. We are also increasingly seeing that agriculture can be the key to the solution in many of the most important issues we have to deal with, provided that agriculture is sustainable, which is, of course, a very crucial condition. The Netherlands is a driving force behind the approach to climate-smart agriculture. We combine three objectives, namely combating climate change, increasing resilience to the effects of climate change and improving food security in the world. Climate smart agriculture is currently embraced by many countries, companies and organisations. The commitment is to organise the Netherlands and all those other countries and participants around these sustainable and efficient agro-sectors as best as possible, so that we can also use our knowledge and skills there, for example with regard to the efficient dairy farming. Good starting material is incredibly important. We can grow tomatoes that require a minimum of water and no pesticides and that have maximum yield. That is what the Netherlands really can do. We must, of course, bring that type of knowledge around the world. Mrs Mulder also asked if we would continue the covenant of Clean and Economical Agro-sectors. That's in the middle of a discussion right now. It's a very important covenant. As I was saying, I'm gonna take it up a notch, we reported on the targets in 2014. We can see that agriculture is now generating more energy than it is using. That's important to report. The target set for 2020 has actually already been met. That's, I think, something a lot of people don't know, but what's going on. It is good that we now discuss with the sector how we proceed. The people of the sector are ambitious, but it may be even more ambitious. That sounds good to me. This will undoubtedly be notified to the Chamber by the Secretary of State and Minister for Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u183	I have a practical question. When does the Secretary of State expect this to be reported? Does she have any insight into that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u184	I suspect that will be somewhere before the summer of 2016; I'll take it a little. I know those conversations are being held in early 2016, but don't pin me on a date, because I don't know exactly what I'm thinking.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u185	Maybe the Secretary of State can report it if it turns out otherwise. I have another question about climate-smart agriculture. Will that point be explicitly included in the Paris agreements? How does that work?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u186	In any case, it is one of his so-called deliverables for the UN Secretary-General. So these are really issues that are discussed through various side events and where countries commit themselves to each other. In what way does that get a place in the final conclusions, I cannot say now. I think it is important to note that there is already a great deal of movement on this dossier and that, for example, the World Bank, the United Nations and a lot of countries have committed themselves to it. So there is a great deal of support for it. We are working for that, too. Mrs Thieme asked a question about the environmental pressure of eating meat. She asked if we should not put much more emphasis on this. We have often had discussions about this from different roles. I keep saying that we do not prescribe what choices people should make, but awareness is, of course, very important. The environmental pressures of agriculture must be reduced; this is clear. That's what the Cabinet is committed to. In our food vision, which has been sent to the Chamber quite recently, we have included a few things about this. It's okay to say that here. The need to tackle in particular the eating of vegetables and the ratio on the plate via the Dutch cuisine, with all those chefs we are rich, is one of the things we support. We think that's very good. We also consider the awareness process and the protein transition to be important. We need to think about the steps we can take in this area. The food vision clearly contains a good run-up to this. I think that the Chamber will have a nice debate on this with the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs and the Minister for Economic Affairs. It's a pity I can't be there; I've been looking forward to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u187	Of course, I regret that, because I have always enjoyed the debates in this area with the Secretary of State. She knows as well as I do that no one in the Chamber says the cabinet should prescribe what to eat. We want the costs associated with the production of meat and dairy products to be included in the price. In particular, climate costs are not now. Through the blue envelope we eventually pay all of us for the pollution caused by this production. I ask the Cabinet to take steps in this area. It doesn't cost the cabinet anything. There are cheap climate measures that the government can take. According to the Plan Bureau for the Environment, this will reduce climate costs by half. It's in front of the cabinet to do something with it, but it doesn't pick it up. I would like to ask the Secretary of State whether she does not want to look at this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u188	It's not entirely true that this is not being picked up at all, because in that same note you will also see that there is an initiative called True Pricing. You know that probably.......................................................................................................................................................................................................... This is also mentioned in the note as one of the initiatives with which we should work more. Probably we're still not doing it entirely according to your book, but you can't insist with dry eyes that we don't do anything at all. That is not true either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u189	No, but I want to make it clear that there are so many opportunities to do more. If the Secretary of State agrees with me that it is important for us to have the discussion on disconciling all the costs of making meat and dairy products, then it is also good to raise this at international summits on a global scale. This is what we do with other products, in terms of traffic and transport or the price of CO emissions. This is precisely a way to combat climate change. It's faster, it produces greater climate gains and it's cheaper. This says not only the Party for Animals in the House of Representatives, but also the Scientific Council for Government Policy, the Planning Bureau for the Environment, Chatham House and the IPCC. I wonder why the Netherlands, which wants to be the frontrunner in climate change solutions, would not also want to be a frontrunner in this discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u190	We are a frontrunner on many points. So I think you should put the whole story in the picture, including what it gets us. That's also important. At the same time, you will see that we must make every effort to make the objectives we have now agreed on at European level a real success. That is the mandate within which the Dutch government operates. Despite all the optimism I want to share, I do not like to look back at the ruins of our ambition, as Mr Samsom put it, I think it will be quite a tour to get this done. I come to my final point, Mr Smaling's question on the subject of heat vision. The Minister for Economic Affairs is working on this. He sent the Chamber a heat vision in April of this year. Part of this is the evaluation of the Heat Act. This new law should also provide a framework for the cost-effective development of large-scale heat projects. The various ideas for heat roundabouts, which allow us to use residual heat effectively, will also be taken into account by the development of this heat vision and the Heat Act. Here too, the icon projects indeed lie before the pick-up. In the Westland, for example, you can get all greenhouses to the geothermal energy in the long term. This not only regulates renewable energy for the horticultural sector, but also provides energy for the whole of Rotterdam. So there are real possibilities when you dare to dream. Sometimes we have to do the same. That's it, Chairman!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u191	Thank you. This brought an end to the first term on the part of the Chamber. There is a need for a short suspension because of the call of nature.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u192	I give the floor to Mrs Thieme. You all have about two minutes to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u193	Mr. Chairman. I wish the Cabinet good luck at the climate summit. For years the Netherlands has had the international reputation of being a frontrunner in climate policy, not being afraid to name the elephant in the room and break taboos. The Netherlands should protect that reputation and also live up to it. I shall therefore table the following motions for resolutions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that of the energy-using industries, livestock farming is the number one cause of greenhouse gas emissions;]] [[considers that it is important to identify factors that make a major contribution to climate change;]] [[calls on the government to draw attention to the need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from livestock farming in the speeches at the climate conference,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that of the energy-using industries, livestock farming is the number one cause of greenhouse gas emissions;]] [[calls on the government to draw attention to the need to reduce meat and dairy consumption in the speeches at the climate conference,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that by focusing on a more plant-based diet, we can achieve very rapid climate gains and halve the cost of climate policy;]] [[Considering, inter alia, that the UN Plan Office for the Environment, the Scientific Council for Government Policy and the International Climate Panel IPCC are pressing for a reduction in meat consumption and calling for reduction targets to be included in climate policy;]] [[calls on the government to pay considerable attention to agricultural issues in the negotiations at the climate conference and to work towards reducing meat and reducing livestock in the climate agreement to be concluded,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that coal plants make a major contribution to greenhouse gas emissions;]] [[noting that the closure of the Dutch coal plants is technically and financially feasible;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that all Dutch coal plants are closed by 2020,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the gas roundabout strategy runs counter to the government's ambition to make energy supply more sustainable;]] [[calls on the government to stop the gas roundabout strategy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Thieme. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31793-120]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Thieme. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31793-21]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Thieme. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31793-122]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Thieme. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31793-123]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Thieme. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31793-124]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u194	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the two directors for answering the questions. I am also pleased that for the first time I had the opportunity to debate this dossier with the new Secretary of State. I wish her every success, as will the Prime Minister, in Paris. I would also like to thank the Prime Minister for the open way in which he responded to the initiative of Mr Samsom and myself, the climate law, and for the fact that he wants to see how we can also ensure stability for the future - the long-term objective. I saw that as an outstretched hand. We use them to see how we can really achieve a broader consensus. I may compliment the Prime Minister, but on the other hand I am also concerned about his attitude. If there has been one Prime Minister in post-war history, he knows that he himself likes to say that he has intervened hard in the economic crisis, it is this Prime Minister. There's never been so much savings. It was always mantra: that is necessary. And: it's not because we don't like it, but because it's necessary to keep our economy going. At that time, it was not asked what that means for cohesion in our society and for the most vulnerable. The Prime Minister didn't really care very much. "We need to cut back; it's necessary!" In fact, I would like to ask the Prime Minister for the same bold attitude in relation to the climate. He constantly says that we need to look at what is feasible and realistic and make sure that the impact on the economy is not too great. However, we need to tackle climate change. It's not a nice hobby or anything we can add. We need to keep global warming below 2°C. That is why it is not enough to do what now seems feasible. We must do everything we can to make the necessary objective realistic. That's what I expect from the Prime Minister. Finally, I would like to make two motions, namely a very good motion by Mr Van Veldhoven on the transfer to national binding targets and an excellent motion by Mr Dik-Faber on the fact that the agreements that will be made in Paris will not become'suable' under ISDS if TTIP comes. I think it's very important to protect our environmental values.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u195	Mr. Chairman. I have just noticed that you found with hardly any hidden grumpy that quite a few other subjects were also going to play a role in this debate. I've seen that with you, but there's also a reason for it. Of course, the commitment to Paris cannot be isolated from what we are going to do after Paris. For that, Mr Klaver's and myself's climate laws are precisely a road map, to stay with the Prime Minister in English, so that we can get on with it in a nice way. I am pleased that the Prime Minister has responded favourably, although I had no interest in any other reaction. Nevertheless, it is always a good thing that the government is already, in advance, reacting so favourably to a preliminary draft law. That'll give you room for later. Finally. The Netherlands can, thanks to what we have set out in this cabinet period, have ambitions for the shorter and longer term with the energy agreement, with all the ambitions and actions that go with it, yet with a better bag of luggage towards Paris than it used to be. In recent years it has sometimes not been wrongly complained that the Netherlands threatened to lose its lead position. I think that we are now in the process of regaining that lead position, and I very much welcome it. As far as I am concerned, we are taking a few more steps in the next COPs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u196	Mr. Chairman. We have talked today about opportunities to move in Paris in a different direction with climate change and the opportunities it offers for the Netherlands. I welcome the constructive remarks made by the Prime Minister on the motion submitted by D66 to the Tax Plan on the closure of coal power stations. In any case, he appointed sensible elements in it. That is already a profit, I think as an optimistic person. On a number of other points, after this debate, we still have to make the points; hence the next motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that coal plants are covered by the ETS and that the closure of coal plants through a waterbed effect can create an overly large ETS with a low CO price within Europe;]] [[calls on the Government to urge the European Union to remove the ETS rights of CO-intensive fossil power plants, such as coal plants, automatically from the market when they are closed,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the European Union has submitted to the Paris Climate Summit a common target for CO reduction, but this common objective has no translation into the Member States;]] [[whereas this is a risk that all Member States will point to each other and that ultimately we will not achieve the common objective;]] [[Calls on the Government to actively examine in the European Union during the Dutch Presidency whether the common European CO reduction and renewable energy targets can be translated into national targets for all European countries;]] [[invites the Government to at least translate the joint European objectives into Dutch objectives, and inform the Court of Justice of this at the latest in the review of the energy agreement in 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, for a successful climate agreement in Paris, it is very important that clear and concrete agreements are reached on climate finance, which can finance climate projects in developing countries;]] [[Considering that Europe has committed itself to contributing to climate finance with European funds, but that there is still no clarity as to where this will come from, especially after 2020;]] [[Calls on the Government to explore in Europe how part of the revenues from the European auctions of ETS rights can be used for climate finance,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Veldhoven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31793-125]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Van Veldhoven, Thieme, Klaver and Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31793-26]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Veldhoven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31793-127]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u197	I had another closing motion, but I'll file it at another time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u198	I'm sure there'll be another opportunity for that, Mrs. Van Veldhoven. I now give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber of the Christian Union, with an excellent motion I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u199	Mr. Chairman. I hope I can live up to expectations. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that nearly 60% of claims made since 1994 through arbitration tribunals against EU Member States relate to environmentally sensitive sectors;]] [[considers it undesirable that ambitious climate agreements lead to claims for damages against States due to investment arbitrage in, inter alia, CETA and TTIP;]] [[calls on the Government to make efforts at the Climate Summit to secure a carve-out clause for investment arbitrage in the Climate Convention, so that sustainable climate agreements and measures resulting from the Climate Convention are protected from damages claims through arbitration tribunals in existing and future trade and investment treaties,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a significant proportion of Dutch climate finance goes through multilateral channels, where the emphasis is often still on large-scale projects and smaller projects and organisations have considerable difficulty in accessing finance;]] [[calls on the Government to:]] [[to ensure poverty relevance as an objective in the Dutch climate finance and in the Dutch commitment, both during COP21 in Paris and in multilateral institutions;]] [[to make this concrete by supporting a number of decentralised adaptation and mitigation projects with a clear development focus in gaining access to climate finance,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government, at the Climate Conference and the OECD, to promote the stricter method of qualification for climate finance applied by the Netherlands, whereby loans and guarantees do not qualify,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Klaver. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31793-128]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31793-29]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31793-130]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u200	I want to say that they may be valuable instruments, but they do not qualify. I would very much like to discuss the conclusions on climate adaptation with the Secretary of State at a later date.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u201	Mr. Chairman. I would like to draw attention once again to the aspect of employment and purchasing power. The Prime Minister has dealt with this, but it seems to me to be a somewhat underexposed aspect of the consequences of, in particular, the actions that follow a climate agreement. If this were to succeed, it would have considerable consequences for employment. I'm filing a motion for that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Paris Climate Summit aims at a transition from a fossil to a sustainable society, including in the Netherlands;]] [[whereas this transition both costs and generates employment, but requires a significant change in skills;]] [[whereas the government refers to this in Pillar 8 of the Energy Agreement (Work Market Arrangements), but has little concrete effect;]] [[calls on the government, during the first half of 2016, to present as concrete a scenario as possible as to the impact of the transition on purchasing power, employment and necessary training, retraining and further training,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Smaling. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31793-132]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u202	Furthermore, I think that the Prime Minister is travelling a little too far with a head of commerce to Paris. He's only there for one day and then he does a thousand things. He is very good at that, but there has to be an atmosphere here as well. I'm glad he says he doesn't think about a G77 or blocks anymore. But you didn't just do that. You have to create an atmosphere where there is interest in each other and respect for each other. This was not the case recently at the summit in Malta. All these African Heads of State shit that they just weren't listened to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u203	You mean they weren't having such a good time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u204	Oh, yeah. Yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u205	Please.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u206	Now I'm so upset that I'm going to read my motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the climate summit can only succeed if developed, emerging and developing countries equally tackle the transition from fossil to sustainable;]] [[Whereas this requires a great deal of understanding for each other's history and present position in the world economy;]] [[calls on the government, at the climate summit, to ensure maximum goodwill towards countries that still have to make the leap of prosperity, while suppressing the urge to lift the familiar index finger,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Smaling. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31793-131]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u207	Mr Remco Dijkstra of the VVD and Mr Madlener of the PVV waived their second-term speaking time. I call Mrs Agnes Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u208	Mr. Chairman. I thank the rulers for the answers to our questions. I'll file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that, from 2020 onwards, USD 100 billion will be paid into a climate fund each year to encourage developing countries to take adaptation and mitigation measures;]] [[Whereas the support of private actors to developing countries is of great importance in the fight against climate change;]] [[Whereas Dutch knowledge and skills in agriculture, water and transport can make a major contribution to adaptation and mitigation measures taken by developing countries;]] [[considers that climate fund funding should be subject to robust results;]] [[calls on the government, at the Paris Climate Summit and thereafter, to:]] [[explicitly include the contributions of private actors such as climate finance;]] [[creating space to use the knowledge and skills of Dutch knowledge institutions and companies in, for example, the agricultural, energy, transport and water sectors as far as possible in climate projects financed by the Netherlands;]] [[adequate monitoring of the results of the projects financed from the Climate Fund;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Agnes Mulder and Mr Remco Dijkstra. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31793-133]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u209	I am pleased to hear that, according to the OECD guidelines, loans and guarantees could indeed be part of the climate finance package. The CDA considers that important. I also welcome the inclusion of climate-smart agriculture. However, it is not yet clear how this is going to be done. Maybe the Secretary of State can go into that later. What is her expectation, even if they become partial agreements? How's she gonna bet on that? The CDA considers it important that energy transition also takes place from the bottom up. Residents must therefore be included in this important development. After all, there is still a price tag. The CDA wants this to also result in employment for our residents, in innovation and in support for this important transition.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u210	This brings to an end the second term of the Chamber. The rulers would like to discuss for a moment their reaction to the motions tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u211	Mr. Chairman. I'll make a few more comments before I get to the motions. I would like to return to Mrs Agnes Mulder's question from the CDA on the issue of the inclusion of ABP commitments. Unfortunately, that is not the case. The Copenhagen text says that funding must have been mobilised by countries. This means that at least a public commitment must be involved. The cooperation we are about to start can ensure this. Own CO reduction initiatives such as those of the ABP are also important, but cannot be seen in the criteria of the national contribution to climate finance. That's too bad. I'd love to see it different, but it's what it is because of the arrangements. I would also like to express my thanks on behalf of the Secretary of State for all the evidence of support for our action this weekend, Monday and then in the context of COP21. As far as I am concerned, this will be limited to Monday, but the Secretary of State will undoubtedly be even more busy working on it. So thank you for that. In the direction of Mr Klaver, I would like to say that we have, of course, always kept in mind and kept in mind all the necessary framework conditions, just as we do with the major issues of mitigation and adaptation. Having said that, I come to the motions. The Thieme motion in part No. 120, I advise. I think that too much one element is being taken out of this. I also refer to the first-term debate. The same applies to the Thieme motion on item No. 121. That is a real freedom of choice for people that we must respect. This isn't up to the government. That is also my reaction to the Thieme motion on item No. 122. The vote will take place tomorrow at 5.30 p.m. 123 I had an extensive discussion with the Chamber in the first term. Referring to that discussion, I advise against this motion. The Thieme motion in part No. 124 I advise, because gas is needed as transition fuel. In addition, the roundabout is also needed. The motions in part No. 125, 126, 127 and 128 will be dealt with by the Secretary of State. The motion-Dik-Faber in part No. 129 is policy support.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u212	Supporting policy in this case is "judge chamber"?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u213	Sure, "judge Room." The motion-Dik-Faber in part No. 130, I recommend, because we believe that loan guarantees should be included. I refer to that part of the discussion. The Smaling motion in part No. 131 I do not recommend, because this places too many restrictions on the main objective of reducing environmental problems. The Smaling motion in part No. 132 I consider to be policy support. I shall therefore leave it to the Chamber to decide. In fact, we must reach an agreement in Paris that meets the interests of all countries. The Netherlands pays particular attention to the most vulnerable and poor countries in that policy. The motion-Agnes Mulder/Remco Dijkstra in part No. 133 is also policy support. I'll leave that judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u214	Mr. Chairman. The conclusions on climate adaptation will undoubtedly be further discussed with Mrs Dik-Faber. I come to the motions on which I give my opinion on behalf of the cabinet. The Van Veldhoven motion in part No. 125, I advise. If you were to do this, it would mean an increase in public finances. We are focusing on a functioning ETS. I think we agree on that. Then this more active approach is not necessary in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u215	Negotiations on the new phase of the ETS are ongoing between 2020 and 2030. We now determine our commitment to this. The whole objective of that new phase is to ensure that the ETS price becomes reasonably stable. If at that stage there is a high level of production capacity from the ETS, it will be at the expense of stability and the ETS will become too wide again. This concerns the phase between 2020 and 2030. We would like the government to bring this element into the negotiations in Brussels on that new phase.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u216	I think it's like this. Mrs Van Veldhoven did not include all these restrictions in her motion. If you do this now, you're gonna take an extra charge on public finances anyway. So that should be covered in itself. We are indeed committed to a better functioning and more stable ETS, where you will eventually also increase the price. This is important, because it prevents people from clinging to those forms of energy that we consider to be less sustainable. Earlier in the debate, we said that we are working within the European Union towards a good strategy in this respect. That's all I want to say right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u217	I understand that the Secretary of State cannot take the frame of this proposal directly out of the motion. There was also no time to discuss this in the debate. At least I'll change the motion. I will also see if I can apprehend her and if we can discuss this further at a later date. This does not seize the Dutch funds that come from the CO auctions. This is something that you really need to regulate at European level and about which you would like to make an agreement at European level. We therefore call for this element to be included in the European negotiations. But again, I will amend the motion to clarify those points. I will also look into whether they can be discussed in greater detail in a debate shortly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u218	The latter is my preference. My impression is not that we can settle all this in Paris already. It is therefore perhaps better to allow this to come back at a later date, when we discuss with each other a little more about what is going on in the Commission. The Commission will, of course, also come forward with proposals. The Member States will then respond to this. I think it would be wise to conduct the debate in this context. It is therefore an opportunity to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u219	I'll hold the motion for a moment. I will also amend her to clarify things, and then we will consider when we can discuss her further.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u220	At the request of Mrs Van Veldhoven, I propose her motion (31793, No. 125). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u221	Then I come to the motion on part No. 126. I really have to advise against it, because there has been a motion on this matter earlier and it has been dealt with accordingly. Mrs Van Veldhoven has called on the cabinet to work on this. That was also consulted in the European Council, and there was simply no support for it. So there is no point in looking at that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u222	That consultation, that probe, took place before the European Commissioner said very recently that he wanted to go that way anyway. He now intends to engage in such talks with the Member States. That's what he'll do next spring. It is therefore crucial that the Presidency, which is then in the hands of the Netherlands, and the Commissioner together should be involved. That is why I have put it in such a way that it says: to actively investigate. That is not an obligation to achieve results, but it would be bad if the Netherlands did not support the Commissioner in the objective that the Netherlands itself has advocated.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u223	The Commissioner has made it clear that he is looking for a governance system. It's still a little hybrid. I think it is clear how the CO targets are translated, but the rest of the targets are still largely indicative. Yes, the Dutch Presidency will have to take steps in close cooperation with the Commissioner. I therefore think it would be better if I first spoke to the Commissioner in order to know exactly what he is trying to do. So I'm not going to go into what might be said about it here and there. Then, of course, I will come back again, because then we will also be discussing it in the usual cycle of, for example, the Environment Councils. Then there is plenty of time to have this debate. Of course, I know the previous motion that has been passed. I think that's a better route.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u224	May I suggest to the Secretary of State the following? If she talks to the Commissioner about this again, including in the preparation of the Dutch Presidency, and then links it back to the Chamber, then I am fine with holding this motion and discussing it at a later date.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u225	I think that's fair, because those conversations are going to take place anyway. I'll back up on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u226	Fine. Then I'll take this motion as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u227	At the request of Mrs Van Veldhoven, I propose her motion (31793, No. 126). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u228	It is not easy tonight, as I say to Mrs Van Veldhoven. I can't help it. I can't help it. I can't help it. I can't help it. 127 I have to advise against. I understand that all these revenues are now being translated back through funds for innovation and energy transition. In a broader sense than how Mrs Van Veldhoven proposes it in her motion, this is already the practice. For that reason, I must advise against this motion. Also the motion by Mr Dik-Faber/Klaver in part No. 128 I must advise against. I am not in favour of including trade provisions in a climate agreement, also because I sincerely believe that it will be difficult enough to achieve the objectives that we have set out very ambitiously. I would like to point out that it is not so easy to declare companies that, for whatever reason, want to get their rights out of order. It's not gonna be easy. We have already had the debate, but I remain "dissuade' from the judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u229	I find this extremely disappointing, also because the European Parliament has adopted an amendment on this issue. There is a risk that the ISDS provisions could undermine measures taken by national Member States. That can't be the intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u230	There are risks like that. You can't just run them off like that. Even if you record it, although I don't think it's possible to include it, there will always be international testing. Judges will take into account their own considerations regarding existing legislation. I understand why Mrs Dik wants it, but I am not sure if it works that way or whether it is feasible at all. Of the latter, I know that this really puts us on top of all kinds of substantive objectives. Let us now make sure that we come home with that -40% by 2030 and with a legally binding agreement for everyone. That would be fantastic. We're gonna make this work.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-29.u231	Voting on the motions will take place this week at the beginning of the afternoon meeting on Thursday 26 November 2015. I wish you all a safe journey home.
