ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-8.u1	I would like to welcome Members of Parliament and the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment. Speaking time is two minutes per group, including tabling motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-8.u2	Mr. Chairman. Yesterday I understood from the social media that the Minister had spoken in Amsterdam about social democracy, that he had said that his party, the Labour Party, had been very silent about inequality, but that it would change from now on. I have two motions that, if they are arrested and implemented, will contribute to combating inequality rather than increasing it, as the current cabinet policy does. The first motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas more and more people have to work with benefits without receiving wages;]] [[noting that non-wage work leads to the displacement of paid work and often has no effect on finding a paid job and is therefore a highly undesirable development;]] [[calls on the government to reject the fact that people have to work without calling on wages and municipalities to stop letting benefit recipients work without pay,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29544-645]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-8.u3	The foreman of the union FNV today calls it incomprehensible, outrageous and rude how the cabinet, with the PvdA executives, deals with the 600,000 officials, including police officers, and the nearly 3 million pensioners or future pensioners. The FNV also calls on the cabinet to pursue a fair income and business policy. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering the slow growth in employment and the difficulty of finding jobs, especially the long-term unemployed;]] [[Considering the conclusion of the President of the FNV that the cabinet is destroying employment and has little regard for the 600,000 unemployed;]] [[calls on the Government to come forward with new proposals to help the long-term unemployed find a job and also benefit recipients benefit from economic growth,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29544-646]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-8.u4	Of course, I would like a response from the Minister to the remarks of trade union leader Ton Heerts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-8.u5	Mr. Chairman. I don't have any motions. I would like to use this report as a basis for general consultation following a general consultation that we had some time ago to ask three questions. My first question is in connection with a debate that we had then and later in plenary. He deals with the elaboration of the Work and Security Act. Actually, I have two questions about that. The first is about seasonal work. Just before the recess, we were told that the social partners would still have discussions. That was also supported by this house. In the second half of August, the Minister would pick up the phone to get in touch with them. We'd hear about it afterwards. I would like to hear from the Minister for Social Affairs about the situation. We hope, of course, that the social partners themselves will find a solution. The second question in this context concerns one of the many, many underlying AMvBs, namely the so-called Daily Wage Decision on employee insurance. That daily wage decision, as we can see, has incredibly many consequences for the level of the daily wage of WW'ers. These include in particular start-ups, re-enterers and flex workers. There seems to be something in the daily wage decision which makes the daily wage much lower than before the adoption of that decision. I would ask the Minister to identify the bottlenecks and to inform us of them as soon as possible. We very much hope that the Minister can find a solution. My third question, finally, concerns the following. We have also had a debate on the minimum legal wage and on the actions to be taken. I can taste feelings for this action in society and also in this house, and in particular for the position behind it. We know that the Minister is currently investigating the minimum hourly wage. He also involves the youth wage. We like to hear when we can see that in the Chamber, so that we know how and if we should act from this house.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-8.u6	Mr. Chairman. For my part, too, three points. My first point is also about the daily wage decision. I too am reaching examples where I wonder: is this what we have been aiming for? Mrs Vermeij was right to talk about this. So I would like to join her in asking the Minister to tell us, I think in writing, what he sees of bottlenecks. Is everything as originally planned and how should it proceed? My second request concerns seasonal work. The new parliamentary year has begun. That was the deadline used by the Minister himself in general consultation. So I too am very curious about what is now the state of agriculture and horticulture, about which it was very specific, but also, for example, in the recreational sector, where similar issues are involved. I'd like to hear from the Minister what the stand is now. The legal minimum youth wage is very low. The Minister is studying, but I would also like to give him an address in the Chamber to give some direction to that study. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that young workers are only entitled to the regular statutory minimum wage at the age of 23 and that the minimum wage for 18-year-olds is only 45.5% of the regular statutory minimum wage;]] [[Whereas "equal pay for equal work" is a good starting point for all workers;]] [[calls on the Government to put forward concrete proposals in the short term to substantially increase the legal minimum youth wage and to align it more closely with the regular statutory minimum wage, taking into account the prevention of a negative impact on employment, unemployment and the participation of young people in education,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Weyenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29544-647]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-8.u7	Yes. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-8.u8	Then I give the floor to Mr Heerma for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-8.u9	This was a rather solid motion by D66 in this area, which I might have expected from other parties in this house earlier. In the debate on this subject, the Minister indicated that he would like to take a serious look at this issue, but would like to take it into account in the wider discussion on the future of the minimum wage. I think I recall that in most of the debates on this issue D66 expressed concerns about the loss of jobs. Then why does D66 now submit this motion, instead of giving the Minister the room to look at it, also given the concerns that D66 has always expressed and which have now been taken into account in the last sentence of the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-8.u10	This motion doesn't say "Get rid of it all tomorrow." This motion states: take a serious step. That is what I said before the summer. The Minister is studying, but I think it is important that we also speak as Chambers, and we tell the Minister how the Chamber feels about this. I would like to add that in the meantime even the foreman of the employers, Hans de Boer, says: do something about that minimum legal wage, because we do not really think this is explainable anymore. As far as I am concerned, this is indeed a directional motion, which leaves room to think of the exact measure but leaves no misunderstanding that we simply have to take a step in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-8.u11	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-8.u12	We have had a discussion about the ovo's in this House before, in which I think the D66 Group and the CDA Group were very concerned about the discussion of: a nice wage for a job that you do not have. Is there still room for the Minister with this motion, according to D66, to say that this is very sympathetic, but it is going to lead to a loss of job opportunities for young people? Or is the motion, as Mr Van Weyenberg says, that these measures and proposals should be put in place anyway?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-8.u13	Mr Van Weyenberg, a brief response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-8.u14	I can read the operative part of the motion again, but I think it is clear: take a step. I really don't think it's illogical. I understand we're not gonna abolish it all at once. I am not advocating that at all with this motion. But it's a fact that you can't earn the minimum wage until you're 23 and not at 22, for example. I really don't think this is gonna cost jobs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-8.u15	Mr. Chairman. As Mrs Vermeij of the PvdA just indicated, this VAO follows some time after the general consultation. We have now discussed the labour market with the Minister on a number of occasions before the summer. The last time was on the last day of the parliamentary year, namely during the debate on the effects of the Work and Security Act on seasonal work which took place before the summer. I believe that the Minister then, listening to the broad wish in the Chamber and on the basis of the letter from the polder, said that he was going to work on it this summer. Both D66 and the PvdA have asked questions about this and that is also what I am most curious about in this VAO. In fact, we would have a ruling on this before the start or at the start of the new political year, but we have not heard anything yet. In any case, last summer, during many visits to work, I once again heard the concerns of employers about the effects of the Work and Security Act, including on seasonal work. So I'm very curious about what's going on. Did you find a solution? Can the minister indicate what it was found in?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-8.u16	Mr. Chairman. I shall confine myself to a liberal proposal. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there has been a further increase in the number of people unemployed for a year or more;]] [[Considering that the CBS figures of February 2015 show that 45+ in particular are long-term unemployed and that they have long-term WW or welfare benefits;]] [[Whereas having an action plan contributes both to combating the unemployment of 45+ people and to recognising their problems;]] [[calls on the government to extend the UWV Action Plan 50PlusWorks to the UWV Action Plan 45PlusWorks,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Klein. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29544-648]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-8.u17	Mr. Chairman. The general consultation on which we are now discussing this VAO took place almost five months ago. Things have happened at that time and you can see that topicality is going to play a role. Firstly, I would like to join those colleagues who have asked questions about seasonal work. How is the consultation between the LTO and the trade unions? How does that end? The Minister also promised to paint a picture of seasonal workers in December. How does that work out? Perhaps he can do this before the budget treatment which takes place during the week of sintering classroom and his undefined helper. It would be helpful if the Minister could deliver this before then. During the AO we discussed in detail the legal minimum youth wage. In the meantime, Young & United said that the abolition of the minimum youth wage would create 10,000 jobs. Funny is that another spokesperson of the FNV said it could create jobs for the elderly, probably because the young people get a job less quickly. It is unlikely that it is both true, namely that it is good for both the elderly and young. If the Minister is doing that research, we would like him to check whether Young & United's research, which says that it generates 10,000 jobs, is actually correct. So we would like the Minister to give us an undertaking that he will also review the claim about 10 000 additional jobs for young people if he starts thinking about the legal minimum youth wage.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-8.u18	I propose a short suspension so that all motions can be submitted to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-8.u19	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-8.u20	Mr. Chairman. It is nice to see you and the other Members of Parliament all here in a state of brilliant health and well-equipped, right away, for a series of subjects that are very much to our hearts. I'll stick to the motions. The motion in part No. I must advise against Mrs Karabulut's 645. Municipalities and the UWV have the possibility, within the legal framework, to allow people to work while retaining benefits. They use this to enable people with a great distance from the labour market to gain work experience. This increases the job opportunities of that group, possibly with another employer. A proper balance is needed between encouraging the participation of people who are remote from the labour market and preventing displacement on the one hand. That's where we'll find each other. This is a common goal and that is important. The aim of maintaining benefits will be lost if others lose their jobs. It can therefore only be used for a limited period, up to six months. Municipalities must also explicitly stipulate that work while retaining benefit is necessary for the outflow to regular work. We also appeal to congregations on their duty to prevent displacement. For all these reasons, I advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-8.u21	It may have escaped the Minister's attention that the Labour Inspectorate is now also aware of the fact that for years and also the trade union has many examples that work without wages, i.e. if others do the job, leads to displacement and does not necessarily contribute to the labour market. I am surprised that this minister, who is fighting against the repression of foreign workers, says in the interior: municipalities, you have to be a little careful but I have no problem working without wages. 'Cause that's basically what it's all about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-8.u22	Your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-8.u23	I cannot put that in the Minister's fight against unfair competition and all the negative things that come to mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-8.u24	It has to go hand in hand. It must not lead to displacement and help people. Apparently we differ on this, but you can see that it happens in a number of places in different municipalities in a very social way. Then it increases the chances of working for people. Think of the municipality of Amsterdam. There's a SP alderman there who does that. Not everyone in the SP agrees, but he does. I'll give someone trust in a minute. We keep an eye on it, and a community has to make sure it doesn't lead to displacement. But the goal of getting people to work is important to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-8.u25	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-8.u26	The SP alderman in Amsterdam has been phasing out years of forced labour with humiliating practices, including when this minister was alderman. I'm proud of that, and that's what we're fighting for. Then it is indeed up to the legislator and this minister to prevent and stop forced labour anywhere in the Netherlands. I just think it's really hard. Let the Minister give me three examples of people who have been sweeper, paper picker or whatever, who have done work that other people are paying for, for whom this has contributed to their labour market situation and which means they have a sustainable job.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-8.u27	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-8.u28	Let the Minister give me examples.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-8.u29	I'm very sorry about this. I take Mrs Karabulut's questions seriously. I'm saying you can disagree. We're concerned with the goal of getting people to work, but without displacement. I kept it close to home and gave an example of the SP alderman doing that right now. In response, all ugly things are called, such as "forced labor." I do not think that is strong and unconvincing, and I really regret that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-8.u30	Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-8.u31	No, Mrs. Karabulut. I suggest the Minister move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-8.u32	I'll finish my answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-8.u33	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-8.u34	Where things go wrong, indeed municipalities do not handle them well, they allow people to work for too long and this leads to repression, I would like them side by side with Mrs Karabulut to fight against and touch on those municipalities. But where things are going well, I think you should give congregations the space. This is also part of getting people back to work and getting them used to that work, and then making them proudly earn their own bread. That's what we want. We don't want that displacement, so let's keep a close eye on it together. But the motion is not necessary. In the motion in part No. 646 the government is invited to come forward with new proposals to help the long-term unemployed and also to benefit beneficiaries of economic growth. The motion quotes the chairman of FNV, who wrote a letter about Prinsjesdag. I also noticed that the whole Prinsjesdag discussion before Prinsjesdag was conducted in all kinds of ways. I do understand that, but of course I do not have the opportunity to debate with the Chamber what is in the Prince's diaries. I must advise Mrs Karabulut to hold the motion until she knows what the purchasing power effects are for beneficiaries until she knows what our plans are for combating unemployment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-8.u35	The minister should have thought of that earlier, at least before he appeared in front of the cameras to tell about the accidentally leaked positive aspects of Princess' Day. That's his business; that's what he did. We therefore demand that documents be made public, but I do not believe that we will get them. This letter calls for new proposals to combat long-term unemployment and tackle inequality. The Minister can of course say: yes, that is my intention, which I also pronounce out everywhere. So he can embrace the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-8.u36	Our proposals for the New Year will be presented on Princess Day. Then the Chamber will have all the documents, including the proposals in the fields of Social Affairs and Employment. Then Mrs Karabulut can table a motion: may it be a little more sister, may it be a little more so?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-8.u37	Let me ask you a different question. Is the Minister coming up with new proposals to combat long-term unemployment, so as not to increase inequality and poverty in this country, but to reduce it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-8.u38	I'm not allowed to say anything about that until Prince's Day. I come to the questions about seasonal work. We discussed this shortly before the summer recess. I have promised to get in touch with social partners, pick up the phone and encourage them to have the conversation with each other. I heard from LTO, FNV and CNV this week that they are talking to each other. The organisations want to continue the conversation and do not need my guidance at the moment. I understand that very well. I also understand that the Chamber would like to know with me how this ends. I would like to give the organisations an opportunity to continue their discussions, but I understand that this cannot last indefinitely. I will at least inform the Chamber before the autumn recess about the outcome of the talks, our appraisal of them and their significance for the practice of the Work and Security Act. As far as I am concerned, this is not just about the LTO, but also about other sectors of seasonal work, which may have similar problems and may be able to find similar solutions. Agriculture is a bit more pregnant; that was the drive of the discussion before the summer. In the summer I talked to gardeners, so I know exactly how it lives there. I sincerely hope that the social partners will come out well. They have more to discuss, of course, but this is an important subject. Once again, I will inform the Chamber at least before the autumn recess on the state of play. I'll come to the motion in part No. 647 by Mr Van Weyenberg, who sounds sympathetic to me. I hope nobody gets mad about that, but that's what the motion sounds like. However, I must ask Mr Van Weyenberg to hold the motion. I very much support the debate on the minimum wage, which I have also said to the demonstrating young people in The Hague to be truly integral. What are the effects? What could be truffles? What's a imaginable height? What does this mean in relation to the countries around us? What risk do you want to take with the effects? There's always bandwidths in it; it's not an exact science. I would like to say to Mr Mulder that I will, of course, look at the claim of the extra 10,000 jobs. I only like it and it is good if people take the employment argument with them. It's not that simple. In several studies Alan Krueger in the United States is shown to cost both too low a minimum wage and too high a minimum wage. An increase to a reasonable level really doesn't have to cost jobs. It can benefit the economy, so Krueger shows. That discussion is very topical in the United States. It is not unlimited, so we must do it wisely. Moreover, I still have questions to consider about the enforcement of the law. We still have the question of how we will deal with piecework in the future. What minimum hourly wage do we consider appropriate? We now have two different minimum hourly wages, which do not make it easier for inspection practice either. In other words, I fully understand the signal from the motion and, as far as I can, I welcome it, but I would ask Mr Van Weyenberg to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-8.u39	Of course, I'm gonna think about that. The Minister mentions a number of arguments for not adopting the motion now. This is how he wants to look at the precise bars, the size and the design. However, the motion gives him plenty of room for that customization in the elaboration. The only thing that is requested in the motion is: come up with a proposal to take that increase with a substantial step. For all the Minister's questions on exactly how to do that, I offer him all the room in the motion, especially since he is pleased to be sympathetic to the content.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-8.u40	In any case, all the blames I have made to Mr Van Weyenberg were never blamed for his motions not being formulated intelligently. That is the case today, because it is an intelligent motion. Nevertheless, I am sure Mr Van Weyenberg also understands that the question of whether you can increase, what is substantial and what the proportions should be, should really be dealt with in a single consideration, which should then be presented. I cannot easily wave the motion away, and I therefore appeal to him as a parliamentarians to allow a proper handling of that proposal by holding the motion. So I am not doing that because the motion would not be twistedly cleverly formulated. Mr. Chairman. I understand very well that questions have been asked about the daily wage calculation after the introduction of the income allowance in the new Work and Security Act. There are changes to that. For example, we have introduced the daily wage guarantee for work to work. That's very important for people going from one job to another. The start-up scheme that existed until 2013 is not in place. You can see that coming back in a number of cases. In response to a letter from the CNV, I explained in writing how the system works and how we came to this system. I understand the questions of the Chamber very well. Are these effects I want to take care of? What groups are experiencing these effects? For the record, there are also people who are getting better because of the new daily wage calculation. It's not austerity, it's really a way of calculating that connects to the system. I have heard the request and I would like to respond by looking at the effects in those cases in a letter and providing them with an appreciation. I'm not saying that because I'd already think it had to be different. I don't know if you should want it any other way, and I don't know if there's any other way within the current system. I'm saying that because I take the signal seriously. I have also had people's reactions, and I think we should take a good look at that and send a letter to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-8.u41	Thank you. I hope that the Minister will be able to indicate the time limit within which we can expect this effect. Once again, in the Work and Security Act, we have, in particular, made agreements on the duration of the WW and not on the level of the WW. Of course, we are particularly close to people who are affected by the new decision. We didn't get any reactions from people who are getting better. We are particularly concerned with start-ups, flexers and re-enterers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-8.u42	It does see on those three groups. For the record, there is macro, for everyone, not a change in the height of the WW, but a shift in the daily wage calculation. The existing WW rights are respected, but the people who enter the new WW do have to deal with this new daily wage calculation. I am not saying that for reasons of relativity, but for reasons of clarity. Nevertheless, this new daily wage calculation will allow a group of people to pay a lower amount into their accounts. I want to look at that. What's a logical deadline? I actually want to do that as soon as I'm okay. If that works in a few weeks, I'll send it to the Chamber. I'll send it to the Chamber at the latest in the letter I've already promised on how the introduction went. I promised to deal with the introduction of the revenue calculation and the fact that people had to report in the summer. We have been concerned about this, but so far, thanks to the good work of many, it seems to be going very well. When we're in the middle of a few months, I'd better back it up. If I've got it before, I'll send it to the Chamber, but by the looks of it, I'll do it in that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-8.u43	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-8.u44	Thank you again for that commitment. However, it may seem very unlawful, even on people who were already in the old WW and have temporarily found suitable work. Those people might get less paid and then get much less because of the new WW. That kind of example comes up a lot. That gives a very great sense of injustice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-8.u45	Sure. I've seen it and read it. That is why I am making the commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-8.u46	I believe that you are ready for the final motion by Mr Klein.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-8.u47	I saw Mr Klein standing there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-8.u48	Me too. But I'm asking you to move on his motion first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-8.u49	Mr Klein proposed lowering the age limit. We have already reduced the age limit to 50. The group underneath has to do with other problems. They are no less important, but they are other problems than those we want to address for the 50-plussers, grossly Modo; each border is arbitrary. It is not the case that this does not require specific attention. I share Mr Klein's concerns about this. While employment is slowly but surely improving, there is a group of people who, once they are unemployed, are often long-term unemployed and do not come out easily. So this deserves our attention. However, in my view and in the eyes of the government, this is not the best response to this. We will have the debate on this when the Prince's Day papers are in place and when the Chamber has been able to judge the planned policy for next year and whether we are doing enough. Is there enough new initiatives in it, or does the policy still need to be adjusted? In a few weeks, the Chamber will have the government's plans and we will discuss them with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-8.u50	I was just standing here because I wanted to support the Minister's response to Mrs Vermeij's comment. But I don't have to do that anymore; that's what happened. The Minister indicated that there was another problem for the 45-plus group. Perhaps it might be good to hear that I have not yet been able to analyse this in such a way that the Minister considers this to be another problem. This morning, for example, I read about the additional redundancies at V&D: 400 people, especially people with a lot of experience, people who have worked there for years and who are often 45-plus. For them, the approach should be different because there is another problem. I would first like to see an inventory by the Minister of what the other problem is. Then I can keep the motion quiet and come back to it in the debate on the Social Affairs budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-8.u51	I refer Mr Klein to what we write in the budget about tackling unemployment and the problem of long-term unemployment among the elderly. He really needs to be patient for that. Today is September 2nd. It's Tuesday in a week. Then I'd like to have that debate. If, in the light of that debate, it is necessary to specify or take stock, I am always prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-8.u52	Mrs Karabulut, would you like to ask a question about a motion you have tabled?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-8.u53	About a question I asked the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-8.u54	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-8.u55	Oh, the minister's lost him.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-8.u56	You may repeat your question if you think it has not been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-8.u57	I thought, "He won't forget that." The trade union leader of the FNV, Mr Heerts, used, speaking about the action of the cabinet and more specifically the PvdA executives, the words "incomprehensible, unheard of and rude" in connection with "the cigar from its own box" which the cabinet presents to the 600,000 civil servants and nearly 3 million pensioners and future pensioners. What does the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment think of this, and what is he going to do about this situation and to pull that knife out of his back, so to speak?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-8.u58	I am, of course, incredibly sorry to hear it being discussed in this way. In my opinion, in negotiations, especially on pay, you should respect people who take a different view, people who say, for example, that we do not like this wage offer or we do not think that these agreements are sensible or that the agreements on pension schemes are not good. I think that's part of the ways we're dealing with each other. Then you may also emphasize the other side. You can also indicate: there is now quite a lot of money available, including from the SZW budget, precisely for the salaries of government employees. This makes it possible, together with the pension measure, to create 5% wage space. And sure enough, people really deserve that after all that year of zero. This way you can highlight both points of view. You can still disagree, but you can reasonably show what the starting points of both parties are. Of course, I find it incredibly regrettable that this has apparently failed and leads to this kind of qualifications.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-8.u59	Finally, and very briefly, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-8.u60	So I understand that the Minister is behind the deal in substance and does not intend to intervene in it. In this sense, I can only endorse what Mr Heerts has said.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-8.u61	I believe that the various parties can freely decide whether or not to conclude a collective agreement. In all these collective bargaining processes, there is a multitude of factors: of course, pay, but also discussions about training, training and flexibility. There can also be very specific discussions, such as with the police, where a major reorganisation is taking place. The various sectors need to see whether they can reach agreements. I always hope so. I am in favour of this because I believe in such collective agreements. With the wage agreement prior to the summer, more pay space has been created than there would have been otherwise to spend. I can only express the hope that the parties will sit down together, rather quickly than slowly. I will always make every effort to ensure that relations between government and social partners, between government and employee education are based on respect and dialogue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-8.u62	Thank you. Then we have come to the end of this VAO, although Mr Klein has forgotten something.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-8.u63	Well, no, Mr. Chairman. The approach to long-term unemployment for 45-plussers is too important to put the motion to the vote immediately. That is why I have had a group meeting and I am happy to hold my motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-8.u64	The majority agreed with your opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-8.u65	We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday.
