ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u1	Madam President. In my opinion, the whole of the Netherlands had almost forgotten, but in the deepest secret, with the utmost care and in the greatest possible silence, the Minister of the Interior has worked in recent years on a major point in the coalition agreement, namely a burqa ban, or to put it more precisely: a partial burqa ban. My group would, of course, like to congratulate the Minister on this achievement. But at the same time she wonders why a bill with so much bombaby is being presented. This is a very small group of between 100 and 500 people. The Minister himself indicated that he does not know how to enforce the law, if it comes at all. That is what my question is about. If you submit a bill and make yourself strong for it and at the same time say that you are not going to enforce that law, it has a highly symbolic content. Aren't you into symbol politics? The minister himself said he expects the police to hardly issue fines. That is what my first question is about. What does "barely issue fines" mean? Aren't those fines? Is that sometimes a fine, then, isn't it? Or is there a fine in all cases that the law is broken? In my view, the Minister is placing the enforcement of the law on the administration of educational buildings and hospitals, tram conductors and bus drivers. In normal human language, these are the school janitors. I would point out that administrators are not authorities. Does the government support the principle that laws should be enforced and, if so, that they should be enforced by the authorities?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u2	Madam President. As you know, the government has reported that a previous bill for a general ban on facial covering will be withdrawn and that for advice a bill has been sent to the Council of State stating that in certain situations, for example in education or care, it is essential that you can look each other in the face and so you cannot keep the face covered. After the proposal is returned from the Council of State, it will return to the Chamber. In a few months' time, I will be happy to discuss the details, including enforcement, with Mr Schouw. As I have already explained, the practice will be that, for example, in a school, the principal will say to people: you know the house rule is that you should not cover the face. When people ask how the headmaster gets that and on which he bases it, he can say that this is in the law. If someone is not influenced by this, but really wants to enforce the law, the ultimate possibility is for the police to join. I don't expect this to happen much. I also base this expectation on conversations I had with Mr Asscher with several people, including a headmaster of a Muslim school. He said at his school it's all practice and a house rule that no face-covering clothing should be worn at school. Actually, all people stick to that. For so many prohibitions, when you say to someone that something is not allowed by the law, people basically agree to that. If that is not the case, then there is a sanction in the law as an ultimate possibility, namely a fine. By the way, that fine is of the lowest category: up to €405.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u3	The Minister's gonna hit the nail on the head. He said in so many words that there is no problem in today's practice. There is no law now, but if there are problems with a very small group of people, it is a tiny group of burqas with a burqas, it is simply solved in practice. The principal's talking to someone like that, or the janitor. So if there are no major problems in practice, why does this law come into force? The Minister should be more precise about that. I also noticed that last Friday the Minister said with such emphasis: when that law comes, we are really not going to keep him with the police, because it will solve itself in practice. Now, however, the Minister says he will be discussing enforcement in a few months' time. Does this minister share the general principle that a law, if you adopt it, must always be enforced? Does the Minister think that this principle should be clear and that there should be no grey, tolerant area? I would also like to know from the Minister why there is no internet consultation on such an interesting bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u4	Let me start by quoting literally what I said on Friday: 'In practice, people will then join in.' That's what I've been expecting. And I continued: "And in the best case, you can point out to them: No, it really shouldn't be, and there's even a fine on it if you did." So I have never made a misunderstanding about the intention that the law should be enforced and that, as an extreme possibility, the penalty should be imposed. But, again, I expect this will usually not be necessary in practice. However, what does this law do? The law sets the standard. That is the norm that is already logical and obvious for many people in many places. Now there is a legal basis for this. When I hear Mr Schouwen, I get the impression that he is not yet convinced of the usefulness and necessity of the law as a whole. I look at the President even more than I have to do: I think that the right time to talk about usefulness and necessity is when, after the Council of State has agreed, the cabinet has drafted a legislative proposal and it has been sent to the Chamber. I hope to meet Mr Schouw in that debate. Then we can talk about usefulness and necessity.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u5	I have a very brief response. I didn't hear the Minister say anything about the participation of society. We call that internet consultation for interesting legislative proposals. Does the Cabinet intend to do so after all? I think that's important. I would also advise the Minister, if he comes up with a law, to make firm agreements with the chief of police, and I also see that the political boss has now moved into the cabinet business on enforcement. Then I have one final point. I already heard spokesmen from the VVD say that this is all very nice and that this is a first step towards a general ban on burqa. What guarantees can the Minister give on behalf of the cabinet that this bill is not a first step towards a general burqa ban, should the law come into effect?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u6	We are already talking about the proposed bill with various organisations and bodies. We will certainly continue to do so in the near future. Of course, we will talk about enforcement later, when the bill is here. However, I have already given the intention of the cabinet. And with regard to the idea that this bill would be a "first step," the cabinet is quite clear. This is not a proposal that affects clothing discussions or religion. It's not a first step to anything else either. This is a cabinet proposal that says: in healthcare, in education and in a number of other circumstances there are good, substantive reasons for not communicating with each other with covered face. In those situations, you shouldn't wear a balaclava, burka, integral helmet or anything like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u7	I find it rather disappointing that the Minister does not really answer Mr Schouw's question about the Internet consultation. Apparently, the cabinet is having trouble presenting something to all citizens. However, my question is about enforcement. The minister says we're gonna drop the enforcement at the school director, the bus driver and the hospital director. However, those are people who have enough other things on their plate. What happens when these people say: I focus on good education, or on good care, or on transporting people from A to B? What's the minister gonna do?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u8	That's a fake contradiction, isn't it? I have just said that practice in many schools is already like this, including in Muslim schools. It is precisely in the context of good education that it is said that as a house rule they have to be able to look each other in the face. This law will therefore lay down the standard that it is not only a good use, but also a real obligation that one should be able to look one another in the face and in the eyes of one another in education, care and public transport. I believe that education and care will only improve.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u9	Anyone who stands up for being allowed to wear a burqa, nikab or hidjab, to say the least, hates freedom. That is why we have called the proposal'sleepy bite', even if it is a first step. We are missing two things in that, in order to make it clear to the Minister. The first is a total ban in public space on wearing the garments I have just mentioned. In addition, we are missing a better and stricter penalty provision, such as in Article 435 of the Code of Criminal Law. It says, applied to burqas and similar garments, that you can get 12 days in jail and a fine of €3,350. Would the Minister like to take up these matters? If not, why not?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u10	The second question is a question of implementation and the details of the law. That is what we are going to talk about when we deal with the legislative proposal. On an overall burqa ban, I gave the cabinet's consideration. We can find everything from wearing a burka, and I think the speaker and I agree. I do not think that is desirable. Something else is whether the legislator has to record in a free country when people go into their own front yard or walk on their own streets. In it, the government's consideration is: no, then ultimately it is up to people themselves whether they do so, whether it is desirable or not. But in education, care or public transport, for example, there are good reasons to believe that the process there can only take place properly if you can look each other in the face.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u11	We will be discussing this in the autumn. We will, of course, be represented. The Minister indicated that this is currently the norm in society, for example in schools and in health care institutions. So it's already the norm. If there is already a standard in society that is well respected, why do we need a law? Isn't that over-regulation? My second question is: how does this relate to the right of people to self-determination in our society?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u12	That's actually the same question. Where people go in their own front yard or walk on the sidewalk in their own streets, the right of self-determination prevails, so the freedom to dress in a certain way, also in a way that I find extremely unwise and unpleasant. But where one goes in places where the government is co-responsible for providing services, care or service, it just doesn't fit in with that process that covers one's face. Then you are not allowed to participate in that process with a balaclava or other face-covering clothing such as a burqa.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u13	The second part of the question was about overregulation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u14	This overregulation is in his balance. Where the substance is to motivate that you shouldn't, you shouldn't do it. But when you walk down your street, the freedom to dress the way you like gives you the key.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u15	I am pleased that the answer to Mr Schouw's question on the double-mindedness of the minister in enforcement has in any case made it clear that he believes that there should also be enforcement. My second question concerns the duality of the argument. The minister says you should be able to look people in the face, especially in places where the government is responsible for certain things, such as care. Does this not also apply to public order and security in the streets and, for example, to public buildings? Why doesn't the Minister choose that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u16	First of all, I would like to remove the misunderstanding about double-hearted enforcement. I just quoted what I said on Friday. Even then, I made it clear that, in principle, I assume that the person in the school or in the hospital says: this is not allowed by the law. But if necessary, the legal standard is there. Then there can also be action by the police. I do not expect this to happen in practice. The second question concerned the scope of the law. It's a misunderstanding that the law wouldn't apply to government buildings. They will be part of the bill that will be sent to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u17	Then there we go...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u18	Furthermore, on the public road, there may be reason for the police to ask people to show their faces, either in terms of security or identification, but that does not apply in general terms, and that can be done now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u19	Thank you for your answers. Many of the answers refer to a debate that we are about to have. We'll wait for the bill. Thank you for coming to the Chamber.
