ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u1	Madam President. The debate focused on a number of concrete issues. I will begin by making a few introductory remarks. Next, I will mention the larger themes that we see in the debate. I think it is right that the Secretary of State for Security and Justice should then address these issues as much as possible, also because he will continue to implement this policy in the coming months and years. It is important to make sure that he has a clear commitment to this. A single question has also been asked to the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Social Affairs. I can imagine you using the following order. I'm already standing there, then the Secretary of State and then the Deputy Prime Minister. Perhaps I should say first of all that, looking through my eye hairs at the debate, I find that we are once again talking about an extremely difficult issue, namely how we in the Netherlands deal with people who have come to the end of the asylum procedure, who have to go and who can leave, but who do not cooperate or do not seem to cooperate in their return. That is an issue that has already been played in the Chamber at various times. It would be silly to confront parties with their previous views on this issue, but that is interesting in itself. And yet I'm not gonna do it! I am certainly not going to do that in advance, but perhaps I will if I am challenged to do so in an interruption. The views of all kinds of parties have changed considerably over the years. Sometimes previous positions have also been taken back. I don't mind at all. It actually applies to all parties. These changes show how complicated the issue is and how difficult it is to get policy on this issue. I see Mr Pechtold walking to the interrupting microphone, but perhaps I should first quote Mr Van der Staaij who indicated how difficult it is to reach a policy where a balance has been struck between mercy on the one hand and justice and acceptance under asylum policy on the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u2	In 1999, the D66 Group here said that asylum seekers who have been expelled or who have left should be expelled if possible. At the time, we also found that it was a problem which would cause years of implementation problems. I'm just gonna quote my party's own history before someone throws it at me later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u3	That'll show you how smart this politician is, Mr. Chairman. But I've got more.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u4	Mr. Pechtold!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u5	But over the last year and a half, this Prime Minister and his cabinet were able to see this statement coming. The Prime Minister left the questions of implementation to the other two ministers and I therefore ask him to reflect now on the fact that the ruling, which was adopted by the Foreign Minister himself in the Council of Ministers, could lead to nine days of confusion and crisis. We spoke to our colleagues from VVD and PvdA and it showed that the problem has not yet been resolved, because the agreement should ultimately lead to an agreement with those concerned, the municipalities. How does the Prime Minister look back on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u6	I think I am doing this along the same lines as in the contributions of the group chairmen of the two coalition parties. This is a subject that the Labour Party and the VVD are potentially dividing, because there are different ideas about this in these groups. We knew when we started reacting that this was a subject that could pass in any form and would undoubtedly lead to a heated discussion in the bosom of the coalition. And that's how it happened. We have, of course, talked about this a number of times before in connection with the coalition and the cabinet. This coalition often comes to a decision quickly and the Councils of Ministers on Friday are not very long, but we also knew that this was a subject that would require more attention and time. I'm not ashamed of that. I am genuinely not ashamed that we sometimes take more time in a coalition context in order to be able to talk for longer if that is important to the country. I have heard all kinds of qualifications about this, but I would like to put it aside that I believe that it also belongs to Dutch politics with its coalition governments that you sometimes encounter subjects where you have to do everything you can to get out of it together. It's just problems that take more time than an average problem. That can't always be avoided. I also understand, of course, that the question of direction lies behind this. The R-word has fallen, but this is my answer. With direction also comes that at some point you make the assessment that you need more time to discuss and come out with each other. This certainly applies to me as the chairman of the Council of Ministers, as I feel particularly responsible for this coalition. It is, of course, shared by the group chairmen and the vice-premier.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u7	The Prime Minister says he's not ashamed. However, I find it difficult that in the weeks and days of dramas taking place in the Mediterranean and in fact showing that Europe is still not able to work together properly, the cabinet is locked up for nine days to talk about a statement by the Council of Ministers which is not surprising, after all, the cabinet itself has negotiated it in line with many statements and agreements in previous years, which is based on a majority in this Chamber. This majority believes that the policy of bed, bath and bread, alongside a firm return policy, should simply be organized by mayors, which has even recently been laid down in a motion. So I have two questions. The first one is about the image outside and to the Dutch community: people are drowning and we are stealing about something that is completely normal, namely a basic shelter. The second is about a majority in the Chamber who has spoken out in favour of such a shelter being part of it. Why has the VVD made such a mess in this cabinet, when it can already be seen that all the issues over the weeks and the fines are being transferred to the next agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u8	With regard to the first question, I refer to my previous answer. It is precisely by directing that it is sometimes inevitable in a coalition cabinet to take more time than we do on average to solve difficult issues. There is a difference between, on the one hand, issues relating to finance or the major social and health arrangements in the Netherlands, on which the views of the coalition may also differ, and on the other hand, it is often more obvious where the compromise is to be found, and on the other hand, questions of a more intangible nature and questions of asylum and immigration, as we are now discussing. It is not our ambition to turn it into a cabinet-Den Uyl and to meet in future on every subject until deep into the night. That cabinet did serve the ride, without the VVD and with D66. We remain a cabinet and a coalition trying to cut through quickly. But this is really a subject that you need more time for. I also see the confluence with the terrible drama in the Mediterranean. When I went to the European Council last Thursday, I was glad that we could have settled this discussion in the coalition, and I could have gone there without this issue, which, of course, is not directly related to what was discussed at that Council but falls under the same heading, the same chapter: asylum and migration policy. I was glad to be able to go to the European Council in the knowledge that we had resolved this problem. With regard to the second question: regardless of the extent of the majority of the Chambers, there is a coalition agreement, a government agreement, in which agreements have been reached on a restrictive migration and asylum policy. In the meantime, the Committee of Ministers gave the opportunity in the Cabinet to speak very fundamentally about the consequences that should have, also in the light of the agreements reached in the government agreement and in the light of the administrative agreement that has already been concluded. That's exactly what we used the time for. There are all kinds of majorities in this Chamber, to the left and to the right, on all kinds of subjects. They are relevant, but they are also relevant to the fact that there is a coalition agreement in which two coalition parties commit each other to solving the problems in a coalition context rather than automatically looking at the majorities that lie there. In that case, you no longer have a cabinet, but a kind of executive committee that does what the majority of the Chamber does. We have chosen not to be that but really a coalition with a guiding programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u9	What surprises me at this start of the Prime Minister's reply is that he himself seems to be so afraid of questions about his direction that, while no one in the Chamber has mentioned it yet, he is beginning to say quite defensively: there will certainly be questions about the direction, but... I have to say that there are questions to ask, but the Prime Minister has raised this first. Thank you for that. I have noticed that for the second time since December, the cabinet has come to the brink of the abyss, the first time about the free choice of doctors, now about bed, bath and bread. The free choice of doctors has not been resolved since then. We are still waiting for an answer; it is messing around. There is not yet the beginning of an answer about bed, bath and bread, as we have seen today. How does the Prime Minister assess the stability of his cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u10	I thought that Mr Pechtold, by asking for nine days' meetings and my reflection on them, nevertheless hinted at the question of direction, but I now understand that this is not the case. He would never do that! It is therefore a completely unjustified conclusion that I drew from his question, but just as he drew a conclusion from my introductory words by explaining what D66 had said about asylum policy in 1999, I also thought that I could read this in his question. Now I have lost Mr Buma's question... how stable is this cabinet? In my opinion, this cabinet is stable because there is still the will to come out of difficult issues together. The election results brought together the VVD and the Labour Party. We said at that time that we also wanted to give a positive response to the electorate's mandate, knowing that we are taking on all kinds of issues from very different viewpoints. Often it's quick to cut the buttons. A few times it takes more time; Mr Buma refers to the situation at Christmas. At the same time, we are dealing with a fragmented political landscape. I believe you will need six parties in the First Chamber in the near future to achieve majorities; if you make very crazy combinations, I believe you can do it with four parties, but you will soon reach five or six parties. We will, of course, see what happens after the next elections. I have said before that, in my opinion, the fragmentation of the political landscape will not be over. That means, on the one hand, trying to manage wisely; this cabinet has the largest package of reforms and cuts since the war, is still in the middle of it and has a lot of ambitions in many areas. On the other hand, the cabinet will occasionally encounter a difficult problem, which also takes time because of the different views of the parties. Then it is necessary, from the point of view of the direction, to take that time as well and to come out with each other in the full breadth of the consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u11	I do not quite know what six parties in the First Chamber have to do with two conflicting coalition parties who simply have a majority in the Lower House, but that is up to the Prime Minister. He himself once again mentioned the direction and said that the stability is there. How, then, did the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister jointly hold a press conference following the agreement with two completely different stories? The one story, that of the Prime Minister, was: we have an agreement, the shelter is closing and we are going to keep it. Directly thereafter followed the other story, that of the Deputy Prime Minister, who clearly highlighted the PvdA side: municipalities need not be afraid, we are waiting for the Council of State and it will take a while. If there's direction, which one is the right one?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u12	Mr Asscher and I also noted during the pause that there was a panic among the CDA group about an alleged different explanation during the press conference. I can tell Mr Buma that we have reaffirmed to each other that what Mr Asscher said there could have been said by me and that what I said there could have been said by Mr Asscher. I can therefore reassure Mr Buma completely. We spoke with one mouth there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u13	Finally, Mr Buma.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u14	In any case, I am pleased that the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister started talking with each other three weeks after the end and concluded together that they said the same thing at the time, because they are the only ones who have noticed this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u15	Imagine if the conclusion had been different!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u16	The Prime Minister is pretending to be a joke here again in his well-known lighthearted manner, but he realizes that it is about the question of direction, and he realizes that it is about the stability of his cabinet. An entire country has seen an embarrassing display of bed, bath and bread for nine days, while this whole Chamber wants to think about the content. I have no further questions about this, but this Prime Minister should be more substantive than he has done so far if we want to make this a good debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u17	I wanted to make that attempt earlier, but was questioned about the role of director and thought it nice to answer that question. I like to pick up the glove and now come to the content of what, as I said, is an extremely difficult issue. Politics has struggled with this over the last ten or twenty years and you can see that it is leading to a struggle across Europe. You can also see this in the initiative of a number of parties trying to say that no one should ever end up on the streets, but that at the same time there should be cooperation on a solution. It is very difficult balance sheets that these three parties have put forward in their proposal. The coalition has made its own choices. What unites us in this is I already quoted Mr Van der Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij's aim is to achieve balance and administrative support. What unites us is the need to strengthen the return policy. We see the need to strengthen the return policy. On the one hand, this has led us to choose to allow people who have been put out to leave and have to leave for some time to determine whether they want to cooperate in their return. I think that I will also answer the question raised in the debate between Mr Fritsma and Mr Zijlstra at the end of Mr Zijlstra's term, which was equally harsh. I think that Mr Zijlstra was right on his side; he asked me to judge that. After it has been established that the asylum procedures are over, we are giving people a limited number of weeks to determine whether they want to participate in their return. That's one side of the story. On the other hand, we are also ensuring that existing bed-bath bread facilities are closed down against this background. That was also reported in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u18	The Prime Minister admits that in these new reception facilities for illegal immigrants, at least in the first few weeks, illegal immigrants are also admitted who do not participate in return. Does the Prime Minister realize that this arrangement simply puts a large group of people above the law? This concerns a group of people who do not deserve it. These are illegals who ignore their obligation to leave and who do not listen to the courts. They are now rewarded with bed, bath, bread, rest and space. How does the Prime Minister explain this to the average Dutchman, who always has to comply with all the rules?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u19	Mr Fritsma also referred in his speech to the question of 'placing above the law'. We do not; on the contrary. The legal obligation to leave and the associated return to the country of origin are precisely the basis of this agreement. So it's the other way around.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u20	The legal obligation to leave is simply ignored by all these illegals. The Prime Minister now offers these people bed, bath, bread, peace and space. So he certainly puts illegals above the law. How does he explain this to the average Dutchman, who does have to listen to the judge, who always has to follow the rules? The Prime Minister is now measuring double standards in favour of illegal immigrants.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u21	I can only refer to the answer I just gave. There is a legal obligation to leave for people who are finished, can and must leave, even if they do not want to leave. This also means that they must return to the country of origin. That is precisely the basis of the agreement that is now before us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u22	May I respond one more time, Mr. Chairman? This legal obligation to leave makes the Prime Minister worthless by rewarding those who deliberately ignore the obligation to leave with care. So the prime minister puts illegals above the law. He's bent in front of the PvdA. He has already done so when it comes to this year's new general's pardon when it comes to sweeping off the table the criminalisation of illegality and so on. Don't you get a little tired of being the PvdA's errand boy all the time?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u23	Part of the Chamber believes that the PvdA is the errand boy of the VVD. Another part of the Chamber thinks exactly the opposite. Mr Balkenende always said in such a situation: if we come out exactly like this, then what we are doing here will be fine. I'll get to the content. It is my view that it is logical that you should be committed to strengthening the return policy. That is a real wish of this coalition. We do that by giving people, after they have been put out, a limited number of weeks the opportunity to work on perspective. The question then arises as to whether they want to cooperate. If not, that provision will end. If so, they will go to the existing facilities that are aimed at making people actually return. I think that is a very logical approach. Is this Columbus' egg? Have we solved all the problems in the Netherlands with this? No, but we are now taking a very big step in an extremely tough issue. On the one hand, we are providing support for asylum policy. So we don't choose endless shelters in all kinds of bed-bath-bath-bath locations for people who have been put out, can leave and have to leave. On the other hand, we are strengthening the commitment to return. I think it is wise to choose that balance from the perspective of the two political parties that form the coalition.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u24	First of all, I think that the most sensible thing the Prime Minister has done so far is to refer to Mr Balkenende's words on how to deal with these matters. Secondly, here's what I'm saying. The Prime Minister is now saying that he wants to step up his efforts to return. I thought we had to do that a long time ago. He is now pretending that the Council of Europe's statement suddenly led to a light that made it clear that we have problems with the return. Why did the Prime Minister, when establishing the Cabinet itself, agree to a huge extra discount on the entire alien chain, including an additional discount on the Return and Departure Service? I'm also asking him if he's willing to reverse that discount.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u25	However, it is strange to hear that from the CDA, which, in my opinion, has taken the most left-wing position in the debate; even the SP says it still expects a certain amount of activity and commitment. In his speech, Mr Buma said that there is a raspberry edge and that this must be taken care of. This cabinet doesn't accept that. In Mr Samsom's words, these bed-bath-bath-baths are not a solution. What is a solution is stronger commitment to return. Motions have been adopted on existing initiatives, which Secretary of State Dijkhoff van V and J will look at with great interest. Those motions show that, if you do it wisely and give people a little space to look for a perspective, you will have to bet on returning shortly after the rejected asylum application. I think that's more sensible than finding that a lot of people are dropping out now, point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u26	Because of the way the Prime Minister is addressing me now, I would like to point out to him that this is not an election debate and that there will be no elections tomorrow. We're not at RTL; we don't need you-baked to each other. That's just unworthy of a prime minister. I asked a question, and I can't get an answer. The question is how could this Prime Minister, who is talking so much about strengthening return, have agreed to a huge discount on the Return & Departure Service and the whole chain when his cabinet was created. Is he willing to reverse it? Yeah, that's what I'm for. No, then he'll have to shut up himself and not point at others.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u27	There are two things that matter here. First, there is also a DT&V task under the coalition agreement. This applies to a lot of government services. At the same time, we in the coalition have declared and agreed that we will make funds available for the implementation of this agreement. The mission of the coalition agreement shall be completed in conjunction with the efficiency targets of the IND and the COA. We are doing this, among other things, by ensuring greater cooperation between these three organisations, the DT&V, the COA and the IND, within the alien chain, because we believe that there is an important part, perhaps the whole, of the savings provided for in the government agreement. Once again, additional resources will be made available for the implementation of this agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u28	We will undoubtedly come back to many parts of the agreement, but I would like to highlight one here. That is because the Prime Minister just specifically referred to the initiative of three parties, SP, ChristenUnion and GroenLinks, in terms of having to cooperate in a solution. The Prime Minister mentioned it as part of the search we're all concerned with. Indeed, that note talks about cooperating in a solution, which is not the same as cooperating in return. That note also mentions a number of examples of solutions that are something other than return. Is the Prime Minister prepared to do the same for his agreement, and when he talks to the municipalities, as an explicit perspective?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u29	For this coalition it is important that when people are brought to an end, they are actually working, as the Chamber has often said, on returning when they can and must return. That is essential for us, but we do not immediately ask that question. The provision we intend to set up is intended to postpone the question until after a period of reflection and perspective. These are the famous "limited number of weeks" from the first term of the Chamber and from the letter. I simply note that this is not a question of holding an election debate here but of showing how complicated this matter is, and that the three parties that have come up with a piece of paper do indeed set the criterion 'never anyone on the street'. That is what Mr Van Ojik said, and that is what the three parties are saying: they never want anyone on the street. At the same time, they stated that a solution should be worked out. Then, of course, the question arises as to what happens if someone does not cooperate with a solution, and what exactly is that solution? I understand that Mr Van Ojik says that this does not necessarily have to be a return in his view. We disagree on that. Of course you can. There's a way out of this. What do you do if someone doesn't cooperate with that solution? Then it is inevitable in the note of the three parties that people can end up in the streets? That shows how complicated the issue is. It is good that we are taking each other very seriously on this issue today. If the coalition takes a major step in our opinion to bring this problem closer to a solution, it is relevant to also name the fields of tension in other proposals here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u30	I do not think it is appropriate to align the coalition agreement on this point with the initiative of these three parties, which is based on the fact that you are jointly seeking a solution, taking as a starting point that this solution can cover a very wide range of areas. An example of this has been re-entered into procedure, which we also know sometimes leads to a residence permit. Other examples include seeking medical support and working on obtaining identity papers. There are many possibilities which, unlike in the cabinet's proposals, do not mean one-on-one that one has to cooperate in his return because otherwise one will be on the streets. That is really a different approach, which also comes back in the motion on the Paulus Church, than what the cabinet proposes. If it isn't, I'd like to hear it. Then we're unexpectedly in agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u31	Maybe it is. We are not talking today about the group of people who are cooperating to reapply their travel papers, which they may have destroyed upon arrival at Schiphol Airport, at their embassy. That group is working on a return. If Mr Van Ojik means that group with his piece, then we are indeed in agreement. But now we're talking about the group that doesn't cooperate on return, which can go back and has to go back. The only thing I want to say to show the tension field that we all feel is this. Since these three parties say that no one should go on the streets........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Those are also included in the view of the three parties on the street, so we do not think that differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u32	If someone does not cooperate with a solution, we do not put them on the street, but there is room for humanitarian reception. What matters to me is what goes before that. The note chooses to seek a solution together, but the cabinet says, unless I have misunderstood the cabinet, that one has to cooperate on one's own return and that, if one does not, one will be on the street after a limited number of weeks. The question of how many weeks is "a limited number of weeks" will be discussed later. This is essentially something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u33	Then we'll talk about another group. If someone proves to be entitled to asylum at any time, there is a completely different situation. However, we are not talking about that group today. We're talking today about the group that's gone, that has to leave, can't leave, and doesn't want to leave. Let's get a very sharp definition of what we're talking about, because otherwise it's gonna be "wishy-washy." That's the group we're talking about. From that group, the cabinet says it's weird if you keep offering that shelter. You have to make sure you do everything you can to get those people to do it. This is why the cabinet proposes a period of rest, orientation and perspective, the limited number of weeks, the pre-phase vbl. At that stage, we're still working to get people to do that. That is what we do in the knowledge that if you immediately ask that question, for example, after rejecting asylum or immediately when you meet, there is a very good chance that people will say: no, I will not do it. Then the door of the vbl in Ter Apel closes again. That's what we do here. In doing so, we build on insights gained in other places in the country. In that context, the Paulus Church was mentioned. In many ways, the approach adopted there is yet another one. But one of the things you can learn from that is that if you give people the time and perspective, the chance of them participating in departure will increase considerably.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u34	I understand that, in his situation, the Prime Minister is trying to suggest that there is just one very clear policy in the letter and that there is no difference of opinion. You'd almost ask the Prime Minister if he knows the story of the emperor's clothes. The Prime Minister, of course, has also read all these newspaper reports, he has heard all these statements from VVDs and members of the PvdA, he has seen the press conference, he has also seen all these talk programmes. Hasn't the Prime Minister really come up with the idea that he has a problem? The agreement is explained in many ways.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u35	First of all... Today I can only see that the two group chairmen are explaining the agreement. Second. We are talking about a major social issue. The coalition has come up with a solution. The fact that this was not easy is demonstrated by the fact that it needed nine days to do so. If this then leads to an approach that strikes the right balance between the different objectives of the policy, particularly with regard to return, I do not think it is surprising that it leads to violent social reactions. I take them very seriously, too. I understand that, because all the municipalities are currently working on a certain policy and say: what do I have on my bike, suddenly it has to be different. I get that. That is why we are taking Mr Dijkhoff and Mr Dijkhoff, who will help him wherever we can, until 1 November, to talk to the municipalities in order to make this policy a success.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u36	Answering questions turns out to be pretty tricky. Let me take the first sentence, the only thing you said: to give a uniform explanation of policy. I've heard both sides. The Labour Party says: the emergency shelter for municipalities continues to exist, even for undocumented people; it remains open to everyone, with or without a passport. At the VVD that is completely unspeakable. Both of them base themselves on the same letter. We talked about the deadlines. PvdA's running around in rooms telling them it could be a year. The VVD is just going to say: two, three or four weeks and then it's really over. According to the Labour Party, Mayors are allowed to continue the shelter, but only to put a different term on it. The VVD says: no, no, no, everything that has nothing to do with it must be closed and that other thing is completely excluded. Oh, come on! Try to fool yourself, but not the whole Chamber and the whole of the Netherlands! What the hell is this? You see this, don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u37	Let me put my perspective on that. For example, I would like to mention the question of how many weeks are involved in this pre-VBL. That's the first theme. I believe that both group chairmen have said that this is a limited number of weeks. We will also continue with municipalities and experts to see what is wise. There are experts in the Netherlands and they also want to find something about it. We are really talking about this, but the guideline is: a limited number of weeks. I have heard both group chairmen on emergency relief, the second issue. They both said that it can never be based on asylum, it can only be individual and it can never be repetitive or categoral. The emergency shelter exists. The letter doesn't say anything about emergency care either. That is a standing instrument, which goes completely beyond the letter that is before us today. There has also been talk of the number of locations. That is the third theme. I have heard both group chairmen say: the letter is clear, our vision is '5+1', so the five locations plus Ter Apel, and at the same time we are talking to municipalities to explain that position of the cabinet and to describe how we see it in the light of national coverage and why we believe that this is a good approach. The fourth theme is enforcement. Once again, Secretary of State Dijkhoff will deal with this in a moment. I have also heard both group chairmen on this issue. They also spoke in similar terms on this point. One thing I have to say before it's thought that Louis Asscher thought that there should be maintenance. The sentence comes from Lodewijk Asscher, but the idea of enforcement, I have to say because I saw it explode on Twitter, does not come from him. Mr Zijlstra did not want to suggest that either. That's from the VVD tube. I'd like to say that here, or else it's gonna lead a life of its own. The sentence was a factual observation: there are all kinds of money flows from the Empire to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u38	The Prime Minister is constantly trying to run away.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u39	I'm trying to answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u40	Yeah, by running away. I'd better get them again, because it just doesn't make any sense what the Prime Minister says. In the first period, it became clear that it is clear to one of the parties that emergency care is possible. Literally, it remains open to everyone, with or without a passport. The Prime Minister himself literally said in the press conference that municipalities cannot provide basic care to anyone on the basis that he is an asylum seeker.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u41	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u42	This is different from what was said here in the first term. Furthermore, they can only provide shelter to individual people, only one day per person. It was just said very clearly that this is different. A complete difference of opinion! About the term is simply said, by yourself: weeks are not months. The Labour Party explains it as: up to six months it must be possible, because it must be done carefully. That's confirmed in the first term. So there is a huge difference of opinion. You may not want to hear it, but then you really have another problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u43	Let's peel them off and see if we disagree. The group chairmen, of course, choose their own words, but on the political point of emergency care, for example, I think they have both said the following. That's not what this letter is about. There's nothing about that in this letter. Emergency care does not affect asylum policy specifically. This emergency shelter is open to Mr Roemer, to Mr Rutte, to Mr Samsom, to everyone who is staying on the territory of the Netherlands, when the mayor says that there is an emergency situation here, I have to put someone in such a shelter one night. Hence: always individual, not categoral, not repetitive and not in the name of asylum. That is how I heard the two group chairmen. Then the point of the number of weeks. I heard Diederik Samsom say a hundred times: a limited number of weeks. I thought, "How do I know that term?" It was in the letter. I heard Mr Zijlstra say the same thing. That's what...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u44	And don't want to hear the rest!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u45	Well, um...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u46	It was said that the example of the mayor and the three to six months confirms that this could be a result in individual cases. You didn't want to hear him say that. Come on, fool yourself!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u47	In my view, both group chairmen have said that it is now important that the Secretary of State of V and J understands this particular point with experts. There are all kinds of experts in the Netherlands who also think something about this. I even heard Samsom say it literally. And that's new, that he admits not to be an expert on a field. I'd never heard of him! He said: I am not an expert in this. We've taken note of that here. It's not true, but he did. He said: I am not expert on this point. He also said: I want to see what Dijkhoff is coming back with on the basis of discussions, including with experts. That seems to me to be the sensible line.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u48	The Prime Minister explains a deal here, but has he still not noticed that this deal has been destroyed by leaving open the possibility of falling back on an existing administrative agreement, which, for all intents and purposes, a VVD Secretary of State has said that a bed-bath-bath-bath-bread supply fits perfectly into it for the duration of six months? Again, there's a deal being presented and defended that's just off the table. Municipalities are not going to cooperate and then we keep the existing situation that municipalities continue with emergency care. Nothing has been achieved at all!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u49	Mr Fritsma falls back on the December 2013 letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u50	Stay out of this! That letter is about a specific situation in Amsterdam. That was a temporary situation, aimed at returning. It has been evaluated and it has been established that it was not so successful, let me say carefully that it needs to be rehearsed on a large scale. However, when dealing with the issue of strengthening return, the coalition tries to learn from that kind of experience. This is particularly true of what did not work there, because a number of things did not work there. So there is no way to say that: that means that it is six months. Or: a certain provision is allowed under the existing administrative agreement. This was really an attempt in Amsterdam to see if this could work, almost in some kind of pilot set-up. Fred Teeven said that he found it interesting to see what information came out of it. However, it was also found, in common, that that attempt did not have the desired result.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u51	That result was not even known at the time when the Secretary of State wrote that letter in which he explicitly stated that the bed-bath bread supply as it exists in the municipality of Amsterdam, where illegal immigrants are taken up even for six months, is not contrary to the administrative agreement. You've been fooled and Mr. Zijlstra has been fooled. Because now we get the situation that municipalities do not agree to a new administrative agreement, knowing that they fall back on an old administrative agreement, which a VVD Secretary of State has said they can do within the framework of that agreement. Again, you have only made things worse! You promised less illegal shelter, but there will be more illegal shelter. The existing shelter will remain and new shelter will be added. You made a mess of it, and the citizen pays the bill literally and figuratively. That's the worst part of the whole story.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u52	I have to consider Mr Fritsma in order for his conclusions to be supported by the introductory sentences, because then they will gain strength. I'll give you my response. In Amsterdam there was a situation aimed at returning. The shelter was temporary; it was, as it were, a test set-up. The results have been looked at. The question was, can you accept such a trial? Fred Teeven said: yes, also because I find it interesting to see what lessons we can draw from it to solve this difficult problem. You can see that some things didn't work there and some things might. You can actually see that reflected in the letter that lies there, in which we, of course, learn lessons from the Paulus Church and other initiatives. This shows that it is sometimes advisable to give people time to work on the perspective of cooperating on return.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u53	Either the Prime Minister really doesn't understand the questions, or he doesn't want to understand them. So we're gonna try to get it a little more precise. The letter from Secretary of State Teeven deals with the project in Amsterdam. Everyone here knows that this project was not as successful as they wanted, but that is not the essence of the letter. The essence of the letter is that such a project, aimed at return but with a lead time of six months, is in line with the original governance agreement. What is the conclusion? This letter to the Chamber refers to a few weeks. When the municipalities do not participate or cannot participate, they fall back on the old agreement. You can then legally insist that they are allowed to catch up to six months and you have no leg to stand on. Acknowledge that for once!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u54	I am referring to the previous answer. I don't see it that way. You can see in the letter that Mr Fritsma copied so usefully that this initiative in Amsterdam points to the temporaryity and importance of working on return. The EESC points out that this is a local initiative to effectively promote return. Then we have to establish together that it has had insufficient effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u55	And that also says: "the bed-bath bread supply is made available to this group for a period of six months." Then comes the story that the Prime Minister is talking about, and this fits within the framework of the governance agreement. I really can't make it prettier.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u56	That's about the whole facility. It is also written in the letter that there is a tailor-made solution here and that Bitches has said that, in the context of the need to come up with insights into working and making policy workable, it is sometimes appropriate to give space to such an experiment. I've been aware of that from a to z and I thought it wise that he gave that space. It has given us information, especially about what didn't work, but also about things that did. You'll see it in our letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u57	I think the municipalities will have a fantastic starting point when they start talking. They can fall back on the old chord where bed-bath-bread is in. There are no fines in there that go over the entire municipal fund. The debate in this Chamber has shown...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u58	You stop, but continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u59	The Prime Minister was working on the Deputy Prime Minister for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u60	I'm listening with this ear. I'm fine. I'm fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u61	The municipalities may fall back on what is now in place. The debate in the Chamber shows that we have seen in recent days, of course, that there is a lot of room for manoeuvre over the period of the weeks, how many locations there must be and how many fines. Even the whole idea of bed-bath-bread can stand, provided it's no longer so hot. The only problem is the Council of State. We will also have the Central Board of Appeal and we will have that date of 1 November. I think the municipalities are very strong, but I ask the Prime Minister: when will this soap opera end? When is he going to get him to focus on all the other important things that have been standing still for weeks?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u62	Meanwhile, we continue to work on all kinds of other matters. This cabinet has more rulers and I myself have more hours a week to deal with other important issues as well. That's one. Secondly, we are not in some sort of zero-sum game with the coalition or with municipalities. We are trying to take a big step together to solve a major problem with asylum policy: how do we ensure that people work more on return and how do we ensure that we do not provide shelter for people who have been processed and who do not cooperate on their return when they can return. That is the balance sheet that can be found in the cabinet's letter. We think it's a good balance. This is what we are discussing with the municipalities, because we think it is important to achieve successful implementation. That does not alter the fact that the letter lays down a number of important principles. Mr Pechtold refers to emergency care, but we are quite deliberately not saying anything about it. We do not want this emergency shelter to be a kind of alternative to bed-bath-bath-bath facilities. That is why I have also mentioned the conditions under which these bed-bath bread facilities work: individual, non-categorical, not asylum-based and not repetitive. If municipalities want to convert bed-bath-bath-bath facilities to an emergency shelter, it is simply bed-bath-bath-bread and is covered by the bed-bath-bath-bath scheme of this letter. If a municipality or a mayor just honestly says that something is an emergency and they can't leave someone on the street and that they have to put them in the shelter one night, they can do so in the Netherlands. We could, we can, and we can in the future. As far as the number of weeks is concerned, if I may reflect on the contribution of the entire opposition, it is crazy to say that on the one hand we need to be more detailed and, on the other hand, it is said that it will be a dictatorship if we do so. Then it is said that we are still too vague. In that sense, from the opposition there sounds a very double sound. I understand that from the political point of view. Take that matter of a limited number of weeks. I would ask Mr Pechtold to consider whether it might be possible for the cabinet, together with experts, but also with municipalities, to genuinely come to a proper weighting of what is a good, precise pitching of the number of weeks. Could it be?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u63	It's a lot to take the size of the room. We are on two sides of the coin, because after nine days of negotiations nothing is clear at all. It was leaked that the first letter said four weeks. It was leaked that it then moved on to negotiate in six weeks. That's why it's "a few weeks" made of it. No, what was that beautiful word again? A "limited number" of weeks. A bunch of flowers for whoever came up with that. That's what the whole letter's full of. It's just a show. The number of weeks is not clear, the fine is not clear, the number of municipalities is stretched in the debate and we are going to fall back on the existing practice. The only thing municipalities have to think about is that they don't call it bed-bath bread anymore, but that they say that the mayor, in the context of public order, lets the emergency regulation enter into force. Then it's emergency shelter. And in the meantime, this cabinet is only trying to cover up in an almost ruled cabinet. That's what's going on. The Prime Minister should be accountable for that today, rather than participating in the flight in vague terms as Zijlstra and Samsom do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u64	I am truly disappointed by Mr Pechtold. Look, at the PVV it can sometimes happen that way; personal fact. I was just genuinely trying to give Mr Pechtold an answer to some of the criticisms he has made and which I understand. He asks why it has not been filled in and why there is a limited number of weeks. I said: could it be that we are genuinely of the opinion that, in conjunction with experts and in discussions with municipalities on the supplementary administrative agreement, we would like to fill that out in order to really achieve a good precise provision, and I mentioned that pitching of the number of weeks. That's one example. The second is emergency shelter. I just outlined why we didn't say anything about it in the letter. Emergency care is not linked to asylum and falls within the criteria currently in force. We do not want this to be an alternative to the existing bed-bath bread supply, precisely because we would find it unwise to do so in conjunction with the two pillars under the letter. As Mr Samsom said, in the end this does not offer a perspective to people. Could it be that we think it is genuine? Could it be that, for example, we do not fill in the number of weeks because we genuinely believe that this will create false precision which will ultimately get us in the way of implementation? But what do I get back from Mr. Pechtold? The cabinet is ruled out, you're not coming out, and that's why there's a vague letter. I sincerely believe that this is not a justified criticism. I'm trying to disprove it here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u65	I will explain why I have serious doubts about that genuineness. Then you should also make sure that on the VVD website there is no big cross by bed-bath-bread in a graphic. Then you should also ensure that the PvdA's asylum spokesperson does not have his own supporters in the Paulus Church "Weken? It may also take a year," says. Mrs. Mei Li Vos says: the VVD will find out that it all stays that way as it is. She just said that on the record. We've had to follow that play behind the doors for nine days now and a week in front of the doors. In this debate, it is first said that we are playing political games. Then we're told we're hanging on both sides. No, this cabinet just doesn't know what it wants. And the congregations are about to get screwed again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u66	Once again, Mr Pechtold does not address my objections to his criticism. I fully respect that criticism and I think it is important to drill it out with each other and to point it out. He's coming with Mrs. Chicken now, but she didn't say that. He came earlier with Mr Malik Azmani for the two to three weeks. He didn't say that either. Mrs. Kuik has...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u67	For Mrs Kuik, that number of weeks can therefore also be all weeks of the year. According to Mrs Mei Li Vos nothing is going to change anyway and the VVD knows that too. That is the atmosphere, and we must look at it. Would you like some more? I've got sheets full.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u68	We can see how both group chairmen, including this afternoon, are in favour of this agreement. One can hear how they explain why this agreement cannot be completed in detail on certain points, because they want to leave room for experts and for the discussion which Secretary of State Dijkhoff van V and J is going to have with the municipalities. One can hear why these two pillars are being chosen to strengthen the return policy. I mean it sincerely when I say that there is a coalition here that has, indeed, taken nine days to reach agreement on this. And I have some bad news: between now and the March 2017 elections, it could just happen again that there will be a topic that forces us to talk intensively for a few days. We think about many things differently, but we are very connected in the search for solutions in the interests of the country, and in the interests of restoring our economy and the political calm that goes with it. We have succeeded in finding a solution which, according to both sides, combines the shared ambitions in this area. There are also those, namely the promotion of return policy. Once again, Mr Pechtold can choose to stick to his conclusions. He can also comment on my comments on his objections.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u69	All the Prime Minister's credibility is gone. We were just talking about the reception facility in Amsterdam that Mr Teeven allowed to remain open, because it was within the administrative agreement. The Prime Minister said that wasn't decisive, because it wasn't a successful pilot. That's right: only two foreigners have returned to the country of origin. I went to look at what Mr Teeven did then. He wrote a new letter, dated 30 June 2014. He says: it was not a success; very few people have returned to the country of origin, but I allow the municipality of Amsterdam to continue for another six months. Mr Teeven, Secretary of State for the VVD, has agreed that Amsterdam will host illegal immigrants for one year. Apparently, the cabinet forgot. I do not know if Mr Teeven has been consulted. I don't want to know that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u70	It was the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u71	Yes, Mr. Chairman. The cabinet's been in a hell of a lot of trouble. Does the Prime Minister realize that, of course, there will not be a single municipality that is going to conclude a government agreement, that there is no deal and that the Prime Minister has not achieved anything at all, except to make matters many times worse than they have ever been?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u72	Let me now look at the differences with the previous intervention. I have said it before: I think the essence is that we are dealing with an incredibly unbearable problem. This means that we have to leave municipalities room to see if certain types of approach can be successful. The former Secretary of State for V and J, currently Member of Parliament, Mr Teeven did so. The conclusion was that this didn't work. This was useful for the policy, as further conclusions could be drawn on this basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u73	That is what this is about: drawing conclusions! Now we can draw the following conclusion: while the existing administrative agreement is being applied, a VVD Secretary of State has said that a municipality can provide illegal shelter for just one year. In fact, he extended the deadline when it was already clear that almost no one had left for the country of origin. You've been incredibly paged by the PvdA; admit it! There's no agreement. The municipalities fall back on the existing agreement, which does not change anything. In fact, there's only illegal shelter coming in. You signed up for that. You have done the Netherlands a very bad service.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u74	I have also said this before: this was a tailor-made solution. It's temporary. This is permitted, also in the context of the exchange of administrative information on different approaches to solve this extremely difficult problem. This approach proved not to be sufficiently successful to continue. That has helped us to move forward, that we could take next steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u75	For nine days the Prime Minister fought like a sort of political Houdini and wrestled to keep his cabinet together. In principle, this has been successful, but it has led to a political agreement that even the municipalities mentioned in it say: that is not going to work. Utrecht said that yesterday and even stated for reasons of principle that it has great difficulty with it. Rotterdam has today declared by majority that the principles that the cabinet uses are not its own. How much room is there for municipalities themselves, for the responsibilities they bear and for the democratic decision-making that takes place there on this subject?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u76	The letter is clear. This cabinet wants to implement a strengthening of the return policy along the two lines set out in it. Of course, this is always a joint operation with municipalities. That is why the important issue for how long the provision is in place where people can temporarily work towards a perspective of return is an issue that we discuss with experts and municipalities. However, the cabinet says that it is obvious that, given what we are doing here, the existing bed-bath and bread facilities should be closed. That is also what we are talking about with the municipalities. We have also said in all honesty that we want to maintain it if we cannot reach agreements. So I think the letter really leaves room between Secretary of State Dijkhoff van V and J and the municipalities. The picket posts were beaten there, but I don't think that's so crazy. Look back at the debate on asylum policy in 2007. Look back at the debate on asylum policy in 1999 under Purple II. At that time, the coalition took far-reaching positions on limiting the reception of asylum seekers who can go back and do not want to go back. There were strong reactions, but after that they continued with tenacity, with determination to make the policy a success. Of course, all relevant political and administrative actors have been carefully developed. This way you can eventually change things in the Netherlands. But it's not like you have a magic formula to solve all the problems all of a sudden. That's what we've been saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u77	The question is how much room there is for municipalities, including the municipalities mentioned in the agreement, to give their own insights and the results of democratic decision-making in the municipal councils a serious place in the administrative agreement. That seems to me to be very difficult. The Prime Minister says: we are going to talk and listen and then weigh all the responsibilities and all the knowledge that there is. But he actually says in advance: the outcome is broadly established and if you do not do what we want, the knife is on the table; then we are going to cut short. Surely that is not a decent way of dealing with municipalities, taking municipal responsibilities seriously and looking together for a good solution to a tough problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u78	That wasn't my wording either. Take for example the pre-phase VBL's, so the locations in the four major cities, in Eindhoven and in Ter Apel. You don't ask people right away if they're part of the return. You take a limited number of weeks for that and you give them the chance to work on a perspective. Those aren't existing bed-bath-and-bath facilities that turn you into a pre-phase VBL; that's something completely different. To begin with, it is done together: by Rijk and by the municipality. In addition, experts from the DT&V are involved. We, as the Empire, also make money out of it. We, together with the municipalities, continue to fill in the administrative agreement, for example the question of 'a limited number of weeks'. These are all points on which the municipalities can also take into account their insights in the final design of the pre-phase VBLs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u79	My question also related to the fact that the cabinet does not just open a conversation and says: these are our views and you also have opinions; we are going to ask all kinds of experts and then we will see where we come up with each other. No, the cabinet has set out a few fairly clear principles in which there is still a little room for discussion on a number of parts. The cabinet already says in the letter that there will be a financial cut if there is no administrative agreement. I would therefore like an answer from the Prime Minister to the next question. Is he prepared to keep the threat of a discount off the table and thus create an open climate for consultation with municipalities?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u80	No. The letter is there the way it is. That means we're gonna have the open conversation and we're gonna take a lot of time for that, too. There is a time limit of 1 November. It'll give you plenty of time. The municipalities are also struggling with a huge problem. Unlike Mr Slob, I am very positive about the opportunities of such an agreement. I think it will work because there is a common responsibility and we want to deal with it together. The municipalities, of course, also want many more people to return. In the motion, including the Christian Union, about the Paulus Church and the approach are typical of those insights that we also take with us in shaping such a provision. This can also be seen in the written answer to the questions. I'm sure you can get out with the congregations. However, I think it is fair to say that the cabinet does agree with this. In the end, the cabinet feels that, where you strengthen the return policy on the one hand, you cannot continue to provide permanent care to people who have gone out and can leave.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u81	Do you have to be vague or concrete now? The Prime Minister says that if I'm vague, it's not good, but if I'm concrete, it's not good either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u82	Will you help me?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u83	We sympathize with him, let me put it this way. For example, when I look at the length of the shelter, a vague letter talks about a limited number of weeks. Everyone then gave a very concrete explanation. I do not want to quote all kinds of colleagues, but I do want to quote the Prime Minister who says 'weeks' and they are not months. Yesterday we heard the mayors. They say, "It's months, not weeks." That is both very concrete, but it is the opposite. Now the Prime Minister is talking to the municipalities. The Secretary of State is going round the table, with in his back undoubtedly the support of the Prime Minister, not to mention the Deputy Prime Minister. It's a big family; we know the cabinet. But what is it now? Is it weeks and therefore not months or months and therefore not weeks?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u84	It's a limited number of weeks. I am not going to ask Mr Van Ojik a counter question, because that is not allowed. Let me therefore make a comment. All political parties in this Chamber have been struggling for more than twenty years with the question of how to ensure that asylum policy remains acceptable in the Netherlands. The Netherlands is a decent country where people who are really in trouble can knock and where they can build their future if they rightly call for asylum status. How do you ensure that this is supported? You do that by making sure that people who are not allowed to stay here return at the same time. So if it's been said: sorry, we understand you've tried, you've gone through the whole procedure but you have, how we turn it or turn it, no asylum status so you can't stay here, you really have to make sure people return. We have all struggled for a long time with the issue of foreign policy and the flow of refugees and the impact that this has on the image of the Netherlands in the rest of the world. The cabinet claims not to have found the solution in this letter. The Vice Prime Minister and I have said this time and again, as have the group chairmen in their contributions. That's not what we're saying. Well, we think we're gonna take a big step. Part of that big step is that we want to learn from the experience gained in different places. Because if you don't ask people right away whether they want to participate in their return, but take a little time to do so and say: work with perspective now, that can be very useful and lead to a much larger percentage of people participating. This also happens, for example, because at that time they are not in groups that they whisper in order not to cooperate. We learned these lessons from the unsuccessful experiment in Amsterdam. I talked to Mr Fritsma about that a few times. But that also applies to elements of the Paulus Church that may work; so we are going to take a good look at that. The motion is there and the written answer also states that we naturally take this experience with us in shaping this provision. I do not understand why the debate is reduced to the key question: how many weeks is it then? We're struggling to solve this difficult problem. My reaction is therefore to the question "what is a limited number of weeks?" Mr Dijkhoff, Secretary of State, talks with experts and with local authorities. It is my absolute conviction that he will come up with a sensible answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u85	The fact that the debate is being reduced to a number of very specific questions obviously has to do with the fact that we want to try to find out exactly what the cabinet's position is. The Prime Minister says he wants to learn from experience. We speak with and hear from the mayors of Leiden, Arnhem, Utrecht, The Hague and Rotterdam that the experience shows that more time is needed than weeks and that you speak in terms of months. If the Prime Minister says: I'm not talking about months, but about weeks, I think that's a quote that we can attribute to a certain accuracy. It's not so weird that we ask him: what is it now? The Prime Minister then says that you should not bring it back to the question of deadlines, but that is precisely one of the concrete points that we would like to have answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u86	Here's what I need to think about. When I was Secretary of State for Social Affairs, we had a discussion with the unions about the financial review framework for pension funds and then the question was how long the recovery period was. I did not want to answer that at the time and I said: let us first ask the experts what is sensible. No, the unions said we want to know now. I said three years. And they stomped out of the room and broke off the meeting. So what's the point of me saying here what might be in my head? There is also a figure in my head and perhaps there is a figure in every head of the coalition, but I do not find the figure in my head interesting. I find it much more interesting to see what Dijkhoff comes back with on the basis of discussions with experts. I am as ignorant as Mr Samsom, as he himself admits, about the exact number of weeks that work best. I've referred to it before. I just want to know what the Secretary of State is coming back with.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u87	The Prime Minister says: I am not expert on this issue, so why should I be specific? However, I think he was specific, where he said: we are talking about weeks and not months. If he says now 'I have no sense of it and wait quietly what the Secretary of State will come back with and I am going to open that conversation', it seems to me that this is a step forward compared to an earlier statement made by the Prime Minister that weeks are not months.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u88	The fact that the Chamber is asking these questions has nothing to do with the Chamber but with the fact that both parties have made statements about it themselves and that the whole world finds that there is a world of difference between explaining them. The Prime Minister has also made clear statements on this matter. So, as a Chamber, do not blame us for asking for clarification. The Prime Minister now refers to the negotiations that the Secretary of State has to do with the municipalities about a new administrative agreement. Is it conceivable, as far as the Prime Minister is concerned, that there will be an agreement which will no longer be discussed in a few weeks but in a few months to a year?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u89	I'm not going into any speculation here. The letter says: a limited number of weeks. On that basis, the Secretary of State will enter into the conversation. I do not know how many cases are presented here, such as six weeks, three months, six months, one year, two years, three years, etc., but I am not going to respond to this on purpose, because I want the chance of making the agreement that the Secretary of State of V and J is going to try to conclude with the municipalities to be as great as possible. If I am going to tax it here by dealing with speculations and speculative questions put to me by the leader of the Socialist Party, I will limit that opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u90	They are not speculative questions, because the VVD said "no" on this same question and the Labour Party said "yes" on this same question. When asked by the Chamber to the VVD whether it is conceivable that the number of centres should be extended to include, for example, three centres called Nijmegen, Arnhem and Groningen, Mr Zijlstra was quite clear: no, our commitment is no. The Labour Party was also very clear: yes, that is conceivable. They sat at the table with the Prime Minister themselves and negotiated it, and that has come on the table. Then do not blame the Chamber that we then ask for it. But it is clear, because the Prime Minister's tactic is not to answer anything, we are moving it all to the negotiations with the municipalities, and when the hell breaks out again, we will look further, but until then at least we will have peace and quiet. But don't deny that all these questions, whether they come from the CDA, D66, the Christian Union, the SP or GroenLinks, are based on the different explanations of VVD'ers, PvdA'ers and even from the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u91	In any case, the group chairmen have been extremely clear today. Also when it comes to the question of how many locations are involved, they have both given the same answer. What did they say? In the letter we are perfectly clear, it concerns five locations plus Ter Apel and, yes, we will also talk to the municipalities and then of course we will explain how we have come to this choice and why we find out how to get to a national coverage with five locations plus Ter Apel.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u92	I hope the Prime Minister quickly buys the book "The Emperor's Clothes."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u93	I don't know if it's a book or a pronunciation, but we're gonna check it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u94	It's a fairy tale.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u95	A fairy tale? Then I have to see if it was published in a separate booklet, otherwise it will be difficult.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u96	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u97	I was done, Mr. Chairman. My polite consideration would be to ask you to ask the Secretary of State of V and J to make a comprehensive statement now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u98	But I see that Mr Buma has a question for the Prime Minister first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u99	Yes, that's right, because one of the great puzzles after the debate so far remains the penalty at the end. The Prime Minister says: we will consult with the municipalities, but at the same time the knife is on the table. If that consultation doesn't work out, the old administration agreement will come into force. How does this Prime Minister intend, if necessary, to maintain legally that the old administrative agreement of 2007, which this Prime Minister was against at the time, is now suddenly being used to impose a penalty that is not even in place?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u100	Mr. Chairman. I could answer that question flawlessly, but there's someone who can do that even better, and he's sitting next to me. So I'm gonna give him the floor anyway. By the way, I mean Mr Dijkhoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u101	I think this is a key element of the whole. I am not asking my colleague Mr Oskam to ask this question either. I ask this question to the Prime Minister myself. He signed that agreement. It's about this question I'm asking him.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u102	Again, you have asked for three rulers here. In order to ensure that they too have something to do, I have already mowed away a lot of grass at their feet, and I am going to ask Mr Dijkhoff to answer this question. I already know that I agree with his answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u103	I don't agree with that, Mr. Chairman! I'm just asking the Prime Minister this question. If he runs away from that, he has to, but that tells me enough!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u104	Okay, that's clear!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u105	I really don't think this is possible. I am simply asking a question to the Prime Minister, who has to answer it. If I ask the Secretary of State a question, I'll ask the Secretary of State a question. I just said: I am not asking Mr Oskam to ask this question; I am doing so myself. So, Prime Minister, what about the sanction?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u106	If this is so intense, I will, of course, give the answer myself. Where Mr Buma made a mistake in his reasoning, what he believed was agreed in the administrative agreement concluded at the time by Secretary of State Albayrak, namely that it should be maintained by judges. That's not how it works. With regard to its enforcement or what you are about to do in a possible additional administrative agreement, we have said, also in the written reply, that we are working on a set of binding agreements. Politics, the House of Representatives, can simply agree on how we act when in this case co-governments do not adhere to important principles of government policy. Then there are two flavors. Taste one is: there will be a governance agreement. Then that governance agreement, see the written set, contains clear agreements on how we are going to reach binding agreements on the implementation of the administrative agreement. Taste two is: there will be no administrative agreement. Then we're going to maintain as it says in the letter. This means, for example, that we can use the money flow mentioned in the letter. But it says "for example," which could also be something else. That doesn't mean we have to go to a judge. We can just decide politically with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u107	You can decide that, of course, but municipalities do not have to accept it immediately. They simply cannot accept a sanction for something they like. So they go to court and say: we are entitled to that money. It's a completely impossible position. You can put a sanction in an appointment. The old sanction of that old agreement was not included at all, because it involved EUR 55 million that has been paid for a long time. Then a new cabinet comes up, all of which makes things up; it sits in a room for nine days and says: we're going to do something new and if you don't do that new one, we're going to impose a sanction. That's just not possible at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u108	I am not a master of law but a simple historian and I can only look up to the lawyer Buma with a stiff neck, but at this point I believe that he is wrong and that it is true that we do not have to go to a judge to maintain this kind of thing. At a time when important principles of national policy are at stake, we can also use the instruments at our disposal, for example in the sphere of money flows, to enforce them. I also said at the press conference: I will leave it at that, because I want to make the administrative agreement a success. But indeed, if you ask me, I'm not running away from it. It is, however, the final piece that we want to be able to maintain in the event that no administrative agreement is reached.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u109	I would like to know the timetable from the Prime Minister, because 1 November is a hard date. If there is no administrative agreement, then the old system will continue, including sanctions, and we still have to hear it. But what happens between now and 1 November? Soon we will have to ask for a debate every time the UNG sits somewhere with the Secretary of State. That's hard for me. I did not feel that this debate was intended to help steer the cabinet's commitment to negotiations, but it seems to be becoming more and more so. I think we should use that as a chamber. Is the Prime Minister or the Secretary of State going to give the Chamber a moment to discuss further the use of the cabinet? In short, what does it look like from now on until 1 November at the latest?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u110	I found it important to first understand myself from the coalition and the cabinet with the Chamber about the cabinet's plans to strengthen the return policy. In addition to discussions with experts, placing the DT&V in a position, etc. They include discussions with municipalities to reach an additional administrative agreement. I would like to discuss the question of whether we can give more substance to the precise timing for the coming months. Maybe the Secretary of State already has that timing in his head. I'll be totally satisfied if he tells me right away. Otherwise, I'll come back to it in second term. Let's make a deal like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u111	I shall now give the floor to the Secretary of State for Security and Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u112	Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about a cabinet letter which contains attempts to make policy more effective. That doesn't preach that it solves everything all of a sudden. Together with the municipalities, we try to tackle it pragmatically. A major gain for me is that, by doing it together, we get the people who are involved in our services. In the end, the goal is for more people to shape their future in the country of origin when they are finished and have no right to stay here. Mr Pechtold and Mr Buma asked us exactly how we considered the statements of the Committee of Ministers and the ESRB. What do we think of the ESRB? Let me call it an authoritative committee of eminent lawyers. They give an opinion on how they feel about it. They mainly do so to the Committee of Ministers. They are not judges, they do not determine the content of the Treaty and certainly not enlargement. They have expressed a number of opinions. The Committee of Ministers has said that the European Social Charter does not extend to foreigners who are not legally resident in Contracting States. It is not meaningless, but it is not binding. On this basis, it is not the case that the obligation to act arises for the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u113	I am listening with some surprise, because that ESRB is not concerned with opinions, but gives a legal judgment. Then you get the Committee of Ministers, but they can never reverse that legal judgment. They are asked to indicate how it should be implemented. With each other we have found that this has happened quite vaguely and that it has given rise to all the commotion here. But that doesn't mean this committee's statements are going to stand, does it? Surely that can't be put away by the Secretary of State as an opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u114	The fact that the Committee of Ministers cannot change the letter of the report underlines that it is not a binding opinion. It is not as if a judge is judging the application of a treaty. The ESRB has an independent position to draw up a report on the basis of its opinion. And it is then up to the Committee of Ministers to take a political decision if it considers that the report gives rise to a direct designation to a contracting country, in this case the Netherlands. The Committee did not see any reason to give such a clue in the report. However, despite the content of the report, it has seen reason to point out that ESA does not extend to this target group. On that basis, therefore, no obligations have been imposed on a Contracting Party on the way in which it should deal with aliens who are not legally resident.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u115	The opinion of that European committee, that statement, remains unchanged. It's a legal verdict. Ministers must indeed give a political opinion on this and a kind of recommendation to the Member State for the way in which it is implemented. That has been done rather vaguely. The ruling on the Charter and its application to the Dutch situation remains valid. We are not doing something right and are being called on to move.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u116	Let me try with an equation. I admit in advance that it's a limp, but maybe I can paint a picture with it. When we make a law, a concept, the Council of State gives a legal opinion on it. That is also a very authoritative committee of even more eminent lawyers, but that does not mean that what they say should then become practice. It is then up to politics to decide what happens to it. The fact that there is a legal judgment is not decisive. A lot of people are judging. That's what it's all about. This is a more authoritative judgment, but not a decisive or binding or instructing one, especially if it is out of line with the Treaty itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u117	Whether it is really out of line with the treaty is, of course, debatable. That is another interpretation of what the ministers have put on paper. In the original version, in which it is written in the original language, English, no explicit mention is made of the process. It merely points out that there is still some discussion about the Charter and its scope, without focusing specifically on the situation we are now discussing in the Netherlands. It's still a little weird. We have signed and committed ourselves to this Charter. Now there is a legal judgment, looking at the Dutch situation, and we pretend that this Charter is not at all about it, as if it is not really about it. I keep finding that very strange. It will not be decisive for my final assessment of how we should deal with this in the Netherlands, because you also have your own views on how you want to have it, but it is a bit of a bargain with treaties and charters and we are not used to this happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u118	We continue to disagree on this. It is not a vague interpretation of the Convention but simply an article from an appendix to the Convention to which reference is made. It literally states that the scope of the Convention does not extend to foreigners who are not legally resident. That's not an interpretation. It is not something the Committee of Ministers has invented, it is simply an essential part of the Treaty. I fully agree with Mr Slob that, apart from this whole discussion, we should have an opinion ourselves on the problem and on what is an effective approach. Hence the letter from the cabinet. It is very important for us as a cabinet that the conclusion is underlined that the Treaty does not extend to this. If that were to go away, it would have far greater implications, including in social security. Apart from that, we do see room to improve policy and to create a return policy that is more pragmatic and effective and that ultimately also ensures that more people actually fulfil their obligation to leave. Mr Buma also asked whether we were not simply following the Committee of Ministers' resolution. In our view, we are in favour of this and we are in favour of it. On the one part that still calls for action, we will report back on the developments in the Netherlands regarding this dossier. Mr Pechtold and Mr Van der Staaij asked about the choice for Ter Apel and the G5 and whether there is sufficient spread. From the debate, I point out that it is five plus one, that the picture exists that we are going to create five pre-stages and that in Ter Apel we only have what we have now, apart from the twelve-week period, only the VBL. In Ter Apel too, however, we intend to set up a preliminary phase, so that we de facto serve six places in the country, with a spread over the wind, but certainly also near the places where the largest concentrations of non-legal foreigners now live or at least call for shelter, in the big cities. With that, we can offer a closed system. It has also been asked whether legal guidance will be provided in the preliminary phase. Are we doing more than just saying you have to leave? In the preliminary phase, these people are looking at how we can get them to see perspective again in their country of origin. Of course, there may be someone coming in who, for example, has never been in asylum procedure. I distance myself from the fact that such examples are sometimes used in the public debate to blame the IND for not doing its job properly. I'm really gonna distance myself from that. If someone has never come forward, I find it difficult to draw the conclusion that you can blame someone for being careless. Apart from that, of course, a person who has never reported and then enters such a pre-stage will be taken into proceedings. This can be done later, because there is a local return consultation, where the direction of the DT&V is strong and therefore also the link to the IND. The great advantage of the new system is that people can get a picture of us sooner, including people who have ever entered the country, but for whatever reason have not thought: I am asking for asylum. It is also true that people are reporting from whom the country of origin was safe when they arrived, but that unfortunately because of the circumstances in the meantime there is no longer a right of residence. Then you're not going to say: you've been here for a while, go back to that country. However, the main feature of the people entering will fall under the category. Their file has been looked at very often and is no longer a perspective on residence. Then you have to turn to the perspective in the country of origin.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u119	The confusion is actually only getting bigger. Let me try to make it concrete. These people come to one of these five departure centers, as the VVD calls them. Dependance of the departure center, I think it's even on her site. So they're getting in there. The Secretary of State says, if I understand correctly, that all that is going on will be looked at in full. He can therefore imagine that there are people in this group who have a different problem than do not want to participate in departure, for example that they do not yet know the procedures properly or that there are new circumstances. I gave the example of someone who suddenly arrives with a document. So it's not just asking if anyone wants to cooperate on leaving? So all possible options are open?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u120	This is nothing new. I just said that it is not a real alternative to most people. Even now, we go into that trajectory when someone joins the VBL. If, for example, it turns out that someone can't be deported, no matter how hard he cooperates, then we have the out-of-debt criterion. Most applications for stay on the basis of the debt criterion come from the DT&V. It is really not the case that there is a window where the circumstances are not looked at, but it is simply a standard no. In practice, most people who will end up there will find that their case has been looked at very often and has been rejected very often, also by independent judges. This will therefore not be a real option for them. Then we're not gonna offer false hope for days on the basis of nothing. It happens that people come forward who have never been in an asylum procedure, but who have appealed to it. If that's the case, their case will be dealt with.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u121	If I take random figures from bed-bath-bath-bath shelter, for example, here in The Hague, it turns out that about two thirds of people do not meet the criteria of: you must now cooperate in return. They all have different reasons for not being able or willing to cooperate at the time. The Secretary of State says that almost all people who come into this shelter should eventually cooperate on departure. So the figures are very different now. Despite the current problems, there is talk of a limited number of weeks. Surely the Secretary of State must acknowledge that this is far from current practice? It is so complex that it often takes six months to one year and a few times even two years to understand exactly what the problem is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u122	Here, too, the information about today's situation is not clear and often is not known to my people, because these people are not in the image of the Empire. As a result, there are all kinds of stories about those groups that I cannot refute with the certainty I would like. There is, of course, a large group in which not being able to leave is very strongly related to not wanting to leave. For this group, a real perspective will have to be outlined in the guidance and it will have to be told that this is not a reason to be able to rely on the excess debt criterion or to be able to stay on other grounds. That's something that's expected a lot now. The experience, also from the DT&V, is that if people really cooperate on departure and really want to go back, that almost always works. For those cases where it does not yet work, we have the out-of-debt criterion. However, there is a very large world between the image, which is very easily called up, that all these people really can't do otherwise and the practice if they really cooperate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u123	First of all, I acknowledge that it is a very complex matter. It is therefore necessary to consider individually what is going on. Are we talking about an economic refugee, a migrant, who can go back, has to go back and will go back? Or, in an individual case, is it someone with a complex matter, as we have so many in the existing practice, where we don't come out and we often need six months to two years to get clarity? What is the answer in the agreement? "You'll be in for a few weeks." You are a bit the founder, I say to Mr Zijlstra. What is now there is: you may spend a limited number of weeks in this only shelter, then you will have to cooperate on departure............................................................................................................................................................... The Secretary of State seems to confuse these two things. Or does he think that the complex matter "" he calls it itself complex "" can be solved within a limited number of weeks? Is he that naive?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u124	I think we should break up the groups properly. We are not going to change the whole asylum policy now, close all the AZCs and leave only pre-departure stages. There are, of course, centres where people stay longer, precisely because there is a lack of clarity. That's where the IND looks at the asylum story, where people can appeal, and the judge can take another look at it. However, at some point, people have been put to good use. Then they'll have an obligation to leave, and they'll have to cooperate on leaving. However, I note that in practice having an obligation to leave does not in many cases lead to actual departure. Telling these people that they have to go back, whether it even calls them or even louder, has not always led everyone to leave in recent years. This requires a different provision. We have it in the VBL. It continues to exist and is aimed at people who say, "Oh, I really do, I have to go back and I can really shape my life much better in my country of origin." People like that can go straight to a VBL. That is what we are going to do and this is really being facilitated. People sometimes pretend that a VBL is a terrible place. No, if someone says he has to leave and wants to leave, he will be helped in every way possible, with papers and with a good start in the country of origin. What is added now is a provision for the situation in which people do not want to say that for some reason. For some reason they don't want to say: yes, I'm going to cooperate on departure. The provision is aimed at people who need to catch their breath and who still need convincing. People need to be convinced that they are better off in the country of origin than in an illegal existence in the Netherlands. There is now and then someone who has never started an asylum procedure. The picture of that varies. I hope to get a better look at that later. In practice, as our experience shows, the group of people ultimately is only small that says: it's all difficult and complex, and I really can't go back. It is possible that there is someone who, for example, has never had an asylum relationship. It can also go to the regular reception channel.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u125	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u126	No, Mr Roemer, you have had three times the opportunity to ask a long question. The Secretary of State is now moving on to his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u127	Mr Pechtold also asked how we assess whether foreigners want to actively contribute to their return. For this, I refer to the existing case law in the context of the detention of aliens, and to the aspects that are taken into account in the assessment. I mention the statement of the stranger himself, but also the perseverance to want back and the perseverance of expressing that will by the stranger. Sometimes, for example, the embassy of the country of origin should also mention this in a conversation. Then it must not be the case that people suddenly say: I do not really want to go back, so that the country of origin does not accept that person. This is an example from the practice of how cooperation on return can be properly challenged by the behaviour of the stranger at once. A question has been asked about linking state funding. The aim of these locations and these pre-stages is right now, in order to achieve more return in practice. It is logical that we take this into account in the financing, together with the municipalities. Of course, the way this is worked out remains to be seen from the negotiations. Part of the funding will take shape with an incentive for effectiveness. A response to the Voordewind/Voortman motion on the Pauluskerk was requested. This is one of the building blocks the cabinet has thought of. For some time now, there has been a desire on the part of municipalities to deal with this together. There is also the wish of the Chamber which we have actually heard to do this together with the municipalities and to look beyond the current system, in which we are asked at the point of contact whether we want to participate in departure. If there's another answer than "yes, I do," there's no answer. I have the impression that we have listened carefully to these wishes. Not only do I have that impression, but it is also our intention to listen carefully to it. That's why we want to shape this together with these congregations. We didn't take it as, "Oh, man, use that Paul's church as a blueprint." The Paulus Church is a much mentioned and celebrated example. Together with local expertise, we're going to see how you fill this out and, above all, how we're going to shape those talks about return. This is how we understood things.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u128	The motion of the Christian Union and GroenLinks was supported by a majority in the Chamber, including by the Labour Party. This motion is based on the fact that the reception of asylum seekers who have been processed in the Paulus Church is quite effective. At least that reception of the Paulus Church is more effective when it comes to expansion than what we see elsewhere. Among other things, there is the fact that one does not say in advance in the Paulus Church: one must sign that one necessarily leaves the country. No, one is allowed to enter, after which the right route for the person concerned is carefully examined at an individual level. There's no time clamp on it either. So they keep it open in that respect. There's no clue that you have to go to a VBL if you're not gone after so many weeks or want to leave. That is a threat that is counterproductive. These are the success factors of this approach. To be honest, I see very little of that in the principles of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u129	That is a shame, for the intention is that it is largely the same. To take away a misunderstanding: there is no threat that one should go to a VBL. Once you really want to return, a VBL is a great place to stay. It's not a weird place. It's not a threat to anyone who says he doesn't cooperate on leaving, because they can't even go to the VBL. So there's no link. I think that in the implementation with municipalities we will come to grips with those that work well. I'm sure they won't be the same one-on-one. The Paulus Church gives good building blocks to open the conversation. It's said that the mayors are all shouting something else. They also call for different things between themselves, so we will come back to this in the precise form of the agreement. The intention is, however, that is why we call it so often "sustainable" that the demand to return is not made in advance, but that a conversation is first entered into to create peace in the head. Then they ask whether the image of a person's country of origin is in line with reality and whether the perspective they thought they had in the Netherlands is in line with reality. This is how we try to get people to repent and conclude that returning is better. This is a method that I think is strongly inspired by the Paulus Church.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u130	An important difference is that there is also a limitation in time. This is still to be negotiated with the VNG, but at the Paulus Church they do not know that restriction. So one goes into individual conversations with people and tries, of course as soon as possible, to follow-up steps, but one looks closely at the individual situation. I'd like to inform the Secretary of State that it's not a matter of a non-binding nature. It's about a chamber decision. The Chamber has said that it wants the way in which the Paul Church is shaping the reception of displaced asylum seekers to be further arrested in the country. That reception should not be minimized to five or six locations, but should be provided anywhere in the country where it is needed. I urge the Secretary of State to take Parliament's rulings seriously and simply carry them out and, in this case, include them in the consultation with the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u131	Sure. I think we're doing more than that. I could also have been very formal and could have answered that I think the Paulus Church is a wonderful social initiative that was not set up by the Empire. I can send out a brochure that says it's nice that these kinds of initiatives exist, but I can't formally make sure they are there. By taking the method of the Paulus Church as inspiration, explicitly naming and including it in the negotiations of the administrative agreement, I believe that the cabinet does justice to the motion. Strictly speaking, I cannot carry it out by saying that there are social initiatives everywhere without the Empire. The intention is really to comply with the motion and I would like to see Mr Slob's reaction once the administrative agreement is in place. To what extent do the Christian Union and the other parties who supported the motion consider it to be justified?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u132	Let me give you an example. In Groningen, Nijmegen and Arnhem one uses a method very similar to that of the Paulus church: bed, bath, bread and guidance. These are important elements, which are part of the manner in which the Paul Church is engaged. I have listened carefully to what has been said by the group chairmen of the coalition parties and I have read the letter correctly. My impression is that these kinds of facilities are about to disappear. That's where the red line of the VVD is pulled right through. In that case, the cabinet does not do justice to the motion, because it asks for this kind of initiative to be encouraged, because it is a good approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u133	The goal is to keep the number of locations accessible. I think you've made a big hit with the six. It has to be practical. The services need to be able to handle it. We also need to take a realistic look at the development of the current facilities. There has been a boost following the ruling of the Central Board of Appeal, in the announcements alone. There are now facilities that are sworn never to be closed, which still have to be opened. That is also part of the discussion. Furthermore, I also see that since the commitment to provide funding, pending certain statements, there has been a significant supply-driven growth in the provision of services. I want to work with the congregations to see how we're going to shape this well. How do we ensure that we have enough places and also a good spread? If this point of departure is properly implemented, this leads to a good distribution and provision in the vicinity of the places where most of these people reside.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u134	I do not know exactly what Mr Slob thinks, but I think that the commitment to talk to the municipalities in the intention of the motion is in itself good. But that creates certain obligations. As Mr Slob said, it is difficult to negotiate, as a coalition, an agreement that states "a limited number of weeks" with the intention of keeping the shelter as long as necessary. After all, that is what happens in the Paulus Church. When, as a coalition, you say "we limit this kind of shelter to five locations," it is difficult to have a motion asking: take this as an example for all the municipalities in which this may be discussed. Mr Slob mentioned Groningen, but you can name many more municipalities. There is at least a tension between the intention of the Secretary of State, who I welcome in itself, and what was agreed in the agreement between the two coalition parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u135	I am less afraid of that, because I see that we also have other routes once it is clear that there really is a return wish. We therefore have other forms of shelter. Suppose after a few weeks someone says: I want to return; let's do it and see how I can get a little support once I've returned. That's why we have the VBL. I do not see a gap between the different situations. We will shape this in consultation with the congregations. I therefore like the fact that there is room for those conversations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u136	When you start a conversation, there's a deadline or there's no deadline. You can't say there's a deadline of a limited number of weeks. We deliberately kept it vague, the Prime Minister says. At the same time, it is not intended to allow it to be a deadline, because the process must be able to do its work, just as it is done in the Paulus Church. Isn't that at least a tension? The Secretary of State says I intend to do it in that spirit. I think it is very important to be open to such things as the exact number of locations and the precise deadlines within which the process of reconciliation with the idea of return.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. This requires a high degree of openness and flexibility on the part of the cabinet. I hope there is. Again, to my mind, this is at odds with what was agreed in the agreement. The Secretary of State says that's not true. Well, fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u137	We have said nothing for nothing that we want expertise and effectiveness to be leading. Many people have already said that a certain time limit or no time limit at all is the best. Opinions differ on this matter. So I don't see a field that is unambiguous, in the sense of "you really want to do it right, you can't have a deadline." I don't see the tension. If Mr Van Ojik wishes to say that it is not going to be easy, I can answer him that I can see that as well. However, I have every hope and confidence that we will get out. Behind the first violent reactions in the country.................................................................................................................................................. It has been asked for a long time to tackle this together: take a step beyond what is already there, talk about it and look at creative methods. We'll take that with us in all the facilities. Now we're gonna start the conversation to shape things up. Mr Slob and Mr Krol asked whether civil society institutions and churches could receive fines if they provided shelter. I don't see any legal basis for fines. So the answer is no. The administrative agreement is concluded with municipalities and therefore also focuses on municipalities. If we, the Empire and the municipalities, have agreed that we do things together and the rest nothing, then we also do not redirect funding to initiatives from the municipality. However, with regard to the initiatives themselves, I do not intend to intervene. I don't have a title for that either. I come to the question about the Council of State. Mr Van Ojik asked what the agreement was worth. Of course, the Council of State has been appointed because we know there will be a ruling. In general, in any cabinet policy, a judge can make a judgment every day which requires that the policy be adapted in line with that ruling. In general, this is also the case. If the Council of State makes a statement that really forces us to do something else, for example the theoretical example of the Council of State ruling that it is forbidden to arrange reception, then we will have to reverse it. The chances of that ruling being made are quite clear, but there is, of course, a range of possibilities. That is what we shall commit ourselves to. Mr Van der Staaij asked how we assess the basis of support. I think this will grow over the weeks and months. The soup's really hot right now. It has been in a pan for nine days, so then a lot of steam comes off and it is a bit foggy. I saw a lot of responses before the cabinet letter was sent. I must honestly say that when I was a city councilman, my tendency was always to mark my point clearly first and then to start the conversation if The Hague thought up something that seemed to be about my municipality. That's how I know the Netherlands. If you have long had the desire to tackle a problem together and you have the willingness to do so and listen to each other, I think this will lead to an agreement. I hope that the Chamber, or at least as large a majority as possible in the Chamber; I cannot guarantee that I will satisfy everyone who supports, embraces and sees as a new, pragmatic step towards a more effective return policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u138	It strikes me that the image that emerges from the Return & Departure Service and from the government or that people can actually return or that they do not want to return is the question of what is going on sometimes quite different from what you belong to in the municipalities or in the reception facilities. To what extent are municipalities actively using the possibility of asking and investigating people in emergency care to find out what the background of the person concerned is and why the status and reception have ended?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u139	In any case, without going into detail as to why this is so or to whom it would lie, I note that it is too little to my liking and to the liking of my services. There is not enough visibility and therefore these images can continue to exist side by side without checking. The above-mentioned experiment in Amsterdam showed that, depending on the side where you stand, it was disappointing or disappointing. A lot of people who said they really couldn't go back, which was also convinced by the city council, turned out to have a different picture as a collaboration started and we really looked at what those files were like. In a small number of cases we found that, if we had seen it earlier or had been reported, there was still a solution within the residence system. Eventually, many people leave the shelter because they are confronted with the fact that there really is no title for residence and that if there is real cooperation and real will to return, that return will also succeed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u140	That's clear. But isn't it also part of a final approach that municipalities that are confronted with people who say they have no shelter and can't go back, in the new relationships or under the new government agreement, immediately exchange information with the government in order to leave as few gaps as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u141	Yes, I entirely agree with Mr Van der Staaij. That is what we hope to achieve with the new branch of policy. We hope to have shelter in a number of places for the category that does not immediately say 'I want back', so that we can work on it. This also shows these people, we can better analyse the backgrounds and we cannot lead people who have never been in procedure, even in another country. They have really gone into the procedure. I can only clarify the big fog about how many people they are, who they are and whether they can't or don't want to be, by means of this new approach and the local return consultation. These people are gonna get a look at my people and my services.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u142	Mr. Chairman. There are a number of questions to me, first of all the questions about the difference that people would have heard in the press presentation between the Prime Minister and me in the tone and the wording. The Prime Minister just said that what he said was said on my behalf and what I said on his behalf. That's right. He just said that on my behalf. I have been asked to explain what is meant by "heavy fighting" in the definition of the compromise. I always find it very strange to deny what everyone has seen. If you're talking to each other for a long time, sometimes at night, however ill-advised that may be, you shouldn't pretend at minute one was clear that we'd get out of here. Then you'd better get out of it. I've heard all kinds of qualifications about it. I understand that, but it's just a fact that it took a lot of effort to get there. That's what it meant, that's all. As a former local director, I have been asked to reflect on the distribution of the intended pre-stage facilities across the country. The Secretary of State has just said a few things about this, following the example of the Prime Minister. I very much agree with that. On the basis of the data at our disposal, we have been looking at where most people call on that shelter and where you can focus expertise. On this basis, the cabinet has come to this conclusion. As part of his clean task, the Secretary of State also has the task of explaining this to the municipalities and to discuss it with them. So much for the questions I had to answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u143	At the press conference on 22 April, the Deputy Prime Minister, unlike the Prime Minister, stressed that nothing changes until the Council of State ruling. Is he still saying that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u144	Sure. The letter also states that the financing of the provisions in question will continue until the day of the decision of the Council of State. That's important, too. On the one hand, you have that resolution from the Committee of Ministers, as stated in our letter. On the other hand, there is still a dispute at the moment, it is literally stated in the letter, whether, for example, the interpretation of the ECHR implies a certain obligation towards the State or the municipality. The Secretary of State also said that the case is still before the Council of State, among other things. That is why it is logical to wait in the highest instance for that kind of financing to end.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u145	When the Council of State decides, and we also get the Central Appeals Board, this may mean that this deal is torn in half or in half again and that funding may just have to go through.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u146	That's included in the deal, the deal, and the letter. The last paragraph of the letter makes explicit reference to possible legal developments. The problem with future legal developments is, of course, that you do not know them yet. The Secretary of State just gave a fictional example of a ruling that would forbid us from providing any kind of shelter. That may not be the most likely outcome. There are many possible outcomes. What is stated in the letter, in fact aboundingly, is that we will, in the highest instance, respect that judgment of the judge and will, of course, incorporate it into policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u147	Still, back to the press conference. There the Prime Minister stressed that they are closing and that we are going to maintain. The Deputy Prime Minister says that what the Prime Minister said needs to be nuanced, because it depends on a statement that can also mean that it remains open.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u148	That's a supposed contradiction. The Prime Minister explained the same letter as me. The letter refers to that ruling in the highest instance and announces that in view of the new provision of the municipalities, combined with the Empire, as a preliminary phase of the VBL, it will not be necessary and therefore not logical that there are provisions aimed at non-legal residents in the Netherlands and that they should therefore be closed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u149	They agreed that, I believe, for the first time since the accession of this cabinet, Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister stood before the stairs as if they had just averted a nuclear disaster. The two group chairmen also had to be put in the picture to explain the same letter. Are we going to do that on Friday every time you say together that you agree and yet keep a separate story? I have two questions for the Deputy Prime Minister. The first concerns the possibility that municipalities will be fined to remove the integration budget. How does the Minister view that? My second question is what exactly was the status of the consultation with mayors of these large five municipalities and, in my opinion, Ter Apel. I first got the feeling that the coalition was radiating that she was included in it. I heard today that the mayor of Utrecht said: I am the first and last to counter this cabinet. That seems to me to be a different picture.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u150	Mr Pechtold spoke of the stairs. I have not dealt with the place where I should be standing next to the Prime Minister. After those nine days of tension, I was interested in explaining what we had come out of. We do not want to make that a habit; normally it is the Prime Minister who is speaking to the press on Friday about what has been discussed in the Council of Ministers. Foreign policy, asylum policy is reserved for the Empire. In spite of the new facilities at those five plus one locations and with due respect for the judgment of the Council of State, if municipalities were to oppose or undermine this, they would still be able to maintain specific provisions aimed at foreigners who are not legally resident in the Netherlands, then it is obvious that this would have consequences. One of the things that we have mentioned in this connection is that Mr Zijlstra explained that just now the budget is the budget. That is not entirely coincidental, because the budget, resulting from the current valid administrative agreement dating from the period of Balkenende IV, was also used to steer. Furthermore, I strongly support the optimistic expectation of both the Prime Minister and the Secretary of State that we will succeed in reaching an administrative agreement. After all, we have a common interest. The municipalities aren't waiting for people wandering the streets with no perspective. The municipalities have long said that the Empire should not throw the problem over the fence, but should take responsibility. That is what we are putting into practice. In order to work that out properly, we want to make agreements with the municipalities. We have six months to do so. The Secretary of State will be working on that soon. I am convinced that this has a good chance of success. As a Deputy Prime Minister and as the Minister responsible for this part of the budget, I think that is a logical outcome of the agreement made. It would be strange for the municipalities to run away from it and indicate that, since it is a matter of government, they are not prepared to continue. Finally, a response to the question about the status of the talks with the mayors. I am always very reluctant to report on talks that take place in or outside the Tower. Reconstructology and then Mr. X came in on a white horse and everything was fine. I don't do that. In the conversation, the mayors weren't asked to agree to anything. They retain all their rights and their position and then negotiate with the Empire on behalf of their congregation. We have made that clear. It wouldn't be ethical to ask mayors to agree to something they don't know yet. However, the cabinet found it useful to be able to talk to the mayors and to hear about their experiences even at that intermediate stage. It was about the experiences in the Pauluskerk, about Van der Laan's experiences in Amsterdam and perhaps a little less explicit about Jozias van Aartsen's experiences and his views on this issue. In that light, it was useful for us to have such a conversation. We did not ask for support in advance, so it was not necessary, but the discussion was useful for us to be able to come up with this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u151	However, I am somewhat opposed to the six-month period in which the cabinet is going to negotiate. Wouldn't the Deputy Prime Minister want to limit that period to a few weeks?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u152	If the Secretary of State came to an agreement with the municipalities tomorrow, we will of course not wait. However, it is always wise to link a certain period of time to negotiations, in this case for a limited number of months.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u153	This brought an end to the government's first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u154	Mr President, I would ask for a five-minute suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u155	That's what I was about to suggest. We will suspend for five minutes and then proceed with the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u156	Mr. Chairman. At the end of this debate we can see that the confusion has not been reduced, but rather increased. The VVD can proudly say that all shelters are closed and the PvdA can proudly say that all shelters remain open, as long as it all gets a different name. It would work on the laughing muscles if it were not for vulnerable people who are now getting on the streets even faster as a result of this policy. The Labour Party says that the mayor can always provide shelter for expatriates, while the VVD says that the mayor is not allowed to do so. How is it that even after the end of the debate one part of the coalition can claim that the reception of people can last for months, while the other part claims that this really is limited to a few weeks? If you ask me, that's a sad outcome. I can do better than that. That's gotta be better. That's gotta be much better. I keep trying, I'm not giving up. Hence the next two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the agreement concluded, for the coalition partners, serves as a starting point for discussions with the municipality on a new administrative agreement;]] [[Whereas municipalities indicate that the number of reception sites is too limited, that a limitation of the reception period is undesirable and that they consider that a basic form of reception should continue to exist for all asylum seekers who have been processed;]] [[calls on the government to take full account of these considerations in the negotiations with the municipalities, so that a new administrative agreement can be reached in the spirit of these considerations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the compromise reached by the governmental parties does not have the support of the municipalities and civil society bodies, while this is crucial for their implementation;]] [[Whereas, moreover, an undesirable situation arises if processed asylum seekers are no longer allowed to be structurally received by municipalities and therefore to survive on the streets;]] [[having noted that the European Social Rights Committee (ESRB) has ruled that the Netherlands violates some basic rights of asylum seekers and undocumented migrants by excluding them from basic provisions and that the High Council of the Netherlands cited the ESRB as a source of law in a similar matter (HR 21 September 2012, 11/01153);]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that municipal facilities can continue to exist in the context of bed, bath and bread;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Roemer, Mr Pechtold, Mr Slob and Mr Van Ojik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-1995]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Roemer, Mr Pechtold, Mr Slob and Mr Van Ojik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-1996]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u157	Mr. Chairman. In rare cases, a party has blundered as lightly as the VVD. By giving the municipalities the opportunity to fall back on the existing administrative agreement, there is unfortunately no need to close municipal illegal shelters. In fact, the cabinet, through former Secretary of State, Teeven, has even indicated that a long-term bed-bath bread supply fits within the framework of the existing administrative agreement. So nothing changes at all. There will only be more illegal shelters, including six official shelters. With this, the VVD has only made things worse and signed for an unlikely defeat. Unfortunately, the citizen pays for this amateurism. I'll conclude with the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that illegal persons wishing to cooperate in returning to the country of origin are already being offered reception;]] [[noting that the Cabinet intends to take on illegal persons who are not willing to participate in the departure;]] [[Whereas this seriously undermines the return policy and constitutes an unacceptable reward for ignoring the obligation of departure by foreigners;]] [[calls on the Government not to provide any kind of reception for illegal immigrants and to withdraw the plans to do so,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Fritsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-1997]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u158	Mr. Chairman. For a year and a half we saw the verdict coming from Strasbourg. In fact, the cabinet itself fed the pen. Nine days were then negotiated, with no outcome. The outcome of this debate is, in fact, that we must at least wait until 1 November before it is finally clear. I think everyone is waiting for that clarity, but this cabinet has not been able to offer it. In many areas, whether it concerns the number of weeks, the fine or other measures, we continue to muddle. That's a sad outcome. That's why I have three motions to see if we can at least send the cabinet. My first motion concerns the reception period. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the present agreement refers to a "limited number of weeks" of reception;]] [[Whereas practice shows that time pressure does not have a positive impact on return rates;]] [[calls on the Government to provide asylum seekers who have been processed as short as possible for as long as it is necessary to promote effective return,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Pechtold, Mr Slob, Mr Roemer and Mr Van Ojik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-1998]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u159	The cabinet insists that the five municipalities plus Ter Apel are responsible for the spread of the land. We look at that differently. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Association of Dutch Municipalities considers it undesirable to concentrate reception at only five locations;]] [[calls on the Government, in the negotiations on the administrative agreement, not to confine itself to the above five reception sites, but to keep open the possibility for regional tailor-made and alternative distribution of reception sites,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Pechtold, Mr Slob, Mr Roemer and Mr Van Ojik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-1999]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u160	We are, of course, waiting for the Labour Party to vote in favour of this motion. My final motion concerns the financial aspects. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[declares that the Empire is fully financially responsible for the reception of non-legally resident foreigners,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Pechtold, Mr Slob, Mr Roemer and Mr Van Ojik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2000]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u161	Finally, I would like to thank the cabinet for today's answers. It was my first debate with the Secretary of State. I would like to congratulate him on the fact that the 42 questions we asked yesterday afternoon were answered in time this morning by the Secretary of State and his officials. That was amazing. Let the cabinet take an example.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u162	Mr. Chairman. We can look back on a surreal debate on a very real problem. I am convinced that the content of this political agreement will not bring the solutions to this problem any closer. I even think that parts of this agreement will be counterproductive in order to find a good solution. The big question is what the expiry date of this agreement is. We know that the Council of State will come forward with statements quite soon. We might even be back here before the summer recess. We know that the Central Appeals Council will deliver statements. We also know that in the coming months, the municipalities will be urged to bring this agreement back to something acceptable and workable. Ultimately, this should contribute to the solution of this problem. Honestly, my hope is based on that. So we're not done with this subject. I'm filing two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, for reasons of humanity, the provision of basic services such as necessary care, children's education and emergency facilities to homeless asylum seekers cannot be withheld;]] [[calls on the Government, in accordance with the European Social Charter, not to use the provision or retention of emergency aid, including basic facilities such as bed, bath and bread, as a means of coercing or forcing asylum seekers to participate in their return,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Slob. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2001]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u163	My second motion concerns an issue which is also very high in our minds, namely the threat of a fine towards the municipalities. I am glad that a fine is not being imposed on individuals and churches; there is no legal basis for that either. We find it really incredibly strange that the government operates in this way towards co-governments and sits with them with the knife on the table. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted the Government's intention to enter into talks with the VNG on a new administrative agreement on the reception of out-of-court foreigners;]] [[Whereas, in the context of good administrative relations, it is not appropriate to threaten, in advance of these consultations, with a financial discount;]] [[calls on the Government no longer to threaten with a financial discount in the course of these consultations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Slob, Mr Van Haersma Buma, Mr Pechtold, Mr Van Ojik and Mr Roemer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2002]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u164	Mr. Chairman. I thank the rulers for answering the questions. I have finished my first term with the observation that there is actually no agreement. I was referring to the fact that the two coalition partners who concluded the agreement explained it in a completely opposite way. Unfortunately, today's debate has not clarified the specific points in the agreement we were looking for. You can approach it differently. You can say: the cabinet will apparently enter into discussions with the municipalities in an open manner. Let us give it this positive turn and let us hope that we will be able to hold the cabinet to that later. That is why my group supports the motions tabled by Mr Roemer, Mr Slob and Mr Pechtold on the deadlines, locations, fines, financial responsibility of the Empire and space in negotiations with the municipalities. I co-signed those motions. I would also like to make a motion myself. In the first term, I spoke about the policy of innocence. The Secretary of State has also spoken about this. This policy should become wider, less bureaucratic and more accessible in a number of areas. To that end, the next motion for a resolution. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas asylum seekers who have been processed live on the streets of the Netherlands and cannot be forced to be expelled;]] [[Considering that the current out-of-debt policy and the existing reception conditions appear to be insufficient;]] [[calls on the Government to promote the reception of displaced asylum seekers who cannot be forced to leave the country or who are entitled to temporary status under the external debt policy;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Ojik, Mr Pechtold, Mr Slob and Mr Roemer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2003]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u165	Mr. Chairman. I'm filing one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that only the inclusion of newcomers' budget is identified as a possible sanction if municipalities continue to provide shelter to illegal immigrants;]] [[calls on the government to explicitly inform the Chamber of all measures taken by the Cabinet if municipalities do not participate in the government's policy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Klaveren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2004]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u166	Mr. Chairman. I thank the rulers for the answers they have given. I must add right away that it was sometimes sad how the Prime Minister stood up with you and here as if we were in an election debate. Here and there he wanted to laugh away problems in the old-fashioned way, or pass on complicated questions. Before this debate began, I thought there was a deal with two faces. But now that we get to the bottom of it, I cannot escape the impression that there is no deal or hardly any deal. Just discussing a limited number of weeks, brings everything but clarity. If you're asking if it's two or three weeks, the answer is: I never said that. If you're asking if it's a few months, the answer is, no, it's not. But what it is doesn't make sense. If you yourself, as a cabinet, say about something that we have all seen that the people involved have fought each other over, 'we do not say that because it is so small', you can't stand looking at it, I say to the Prime Minister, that the Chamber doesn't believe it at all. And that's exactly what happened here. There's still a lot of fog left. How can you negotiate with municipalities if you don't even know what your stakes are on the basis of this hard-won deal? I am therefore tabling a motion asking the cabinet to make it clear to the Chamber what the stakes are so that normal checks can be made before these negotiations begin. It's about sanctions. We talked about that. These are the conditions for foreigners to participate in the projects and the maximum duration and performance arrangements made with the municipalities. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Government intends to act in consultation with the VNG on the re-examination of the closed administrative agreement on the 2007 Aliens Agreement;]] [[Whereas it is important for parliamentary control to know the government's commitment to the principles of reception of displaced asylum seekers;]] [[Before entering into consultation with the VNG, the Government invites the Chamber to provide further information on its commitment, specifically with regard to:]] [[the policy of sanctions for the failure of municipalities to terminate reception sites;]] [[the conditions for participation in a reception location;]] [[precise period of time during which processed asylum seekers who wish to work on their departure from a pre-emptive location can stay as much as possible;]] [[financial performance agreements between Rijk and municipalities as to the degree of success in returning foreigners,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van Haersma Buma, Roemer, Slob, Pechtold, Van der Staaij and Van Ojik.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2005]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u167	I would say that there is almost no need for votes, because this really is going to involve a majority of the political groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u168	Mr. Chairman. What you call it all when it comes to taking care of people is so relevant to those people. It has become clear in the debate that everyone will be treated left-hand or right-hand. The compromise will be drawn up within the framework of the administrative agreement with the municipalities. That doesn't include municipal fines. I don't think it's wise to negotiate with the knife on the table. We are waiting for the results to come to fruition. The discussion will be continued.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u169	Mr. Chairman. I thank the rulers for their reply. If one thing has turned out again today, it is that this is indeed an incredibly unbearable problem. Ultimately, it's about perspective for people. We often talk about things that relate to sub-areas and that are also important for people, but they often include people's future. It is therefore understandable that this is one of the traditional headache portfolios. I hope that the approach now adopted by the cabinet will make it possible to take a real step forward. Whether this will succeed depends to a large extent on whether there is administrative support for it in the municipalities where these people end up on the doorstep. They are generally not located on the national roads, but mainly on the municipal streets. On that point, I shall table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, without prejudice to the personal responsibility of the foreigner, the national government is primarily responsible for preventing as much as possible foreigners from wandering the streets without a right of residence;]] [[calls on the Government to seek, in the administrative consultation, that municipalities confronted with foreigners without a right of residence inform directly the Government in all cases, with the Government committing itself in these situations to provide information on the asylum and return file and on the measures or arrangements needed,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Van Haersma Buma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2006]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u170	Mr. Chairman. At the end of such a debate, you think about what it has achieved now. I can only imagine that it has been a therapeutic session between coalition parties and opposition parties. The irresistible belief that all people are equal leads to a plea for a decent existence. Everyone has the right at least to a level of security of life, so that one can participate fully in society. It should sound like music to Mr Samsom and the people in that profession, but this would not apply if they were illegal. We often hear the reproach of congregations that they say... President, you gesture, but I see that I have 22 seconds left. You're constantly pointing at me, and it's not the first time this has happened. Anyway, I'm finishing up. I would like to call on the cabinet to be humane and just, so that we never have to say: what a civilisation!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u171	Mr Krol is not here; he had already announced that. I shall now give the floor to Mr Samsom of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u172	Chairman. After such a long debate and the prompt answer to the questions put by Mr Pechtold, a word of thanks to the cabinet and, in particular, to the Secretary of State for V and J was rightly pointed out. A further observation is that, in spite of an occasional high-level debate, or perhaps thanks to a good test from the Chamber, this cabinet considers itself motivated, so I have been able to observe that it is working together with the municipalities to find a practical solution to this huge problem that we are all struggling with. There is nothing left for my group but to wish the rulers every success. We await the outcome with tension.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u173	Mr. Chairman. Also thanks from the VVD for the clear answer by the cabinet. It was completely in line with the letter and therefore consistent. I noticed that in the debate it seemed almost regrettable that there might be something in store that might work. We hope that it will work, and we believe that the letter from the cabinet contains a clear starting point: to focus more firmly on return and not to provide facilities for displaced asylum seekers who refuse to cooperate in their departure. There have been many harsh words spoken. I did not hear Mr Fritsma again in the second term, but I was pleased that the Prime Minister confirmed that the harsh words he spoke were unjustified. I haven't heard from Mr Van Klaveren either. He also spoke very harsh words, but missed for a moment that his new foreman, Mr Moszkowicz at Pauw, turned out to have a completely different opinion. Perhaps he should have chosen Mr Bontes after all. That is a nice conclusion of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u174	Thank you very much, Mr Zijlstra. This brings to an end the second term of office. The cabinet has indicated that it would like to consult.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u175	I see the Secretary of State for Security and Justice is ready to respond to the motions tabled. I give him the floor to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u176	Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 1995 by Mr Roemer and his colleagues I do not recommend. Of course, we will talk to the municipalities and also take their wishes with us, but we do not want to take over all their wishes right now and make our negotiating efforts. This also applies to a number of other motions. Then it'll be a bit of a separate negotiation. In the motion in part No. 1996 by Mr Roemer and his colleagues is a weighting of the ESRB and his statement which we do not share. That's why I'm deposing this motion as well. The motion in part No. Mr Fritsma's 1997 rather misses the goal of the whole operation, namely more effective return and actually ensuring that more people realise that return is the best option. That's why I advise against it. I shall now turn to Mr Pechtold's motion for a resolution. 1998. We take the idea that effectiveness is leading, but this is a very open-ended formulation. That's why I advise against this motion. This also applies to the fact that I simply want to reach agreements with municipalities. The cabinet's commitment is set out in the letter and the opinion of the municipalities is clear. Here in the Chamber, too, much has come to us that gives us feedback and support in the negotiating effort. I'd like to be able to enter that negotiation without some kind of pre-negotiation. Mr Pechtold's motion for a resolution 1999 deals with the number of locations. We will start the conversation, we will explain what our starting point is and we will also listen to the statements of the municipalities. However, we do not say in advance that it is no longer our starting point to do it in a clear number of locations, from which de facto a good distribution results.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u177	It always helps when the cabinet is looking for a few motions that it thinks: you know, the debate isn't that crazy now. This motion calls for the possibility to be kept open. I would like to point out that there is support for municipal councils. I am currently following all the city councils that are busy, and one after the other is already flying in the curtains. The request is to keep the possibility open. If I hear the leader of the PvdA group in the debate today, I think that the Secretary of State could really entrust it to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u178	This motion is either very directional, and then it undermines the government's commitment to the negotiations, or it is so open and non-binding that it becomes superfluous again. I understand that Mr Pechtold would like to hear a different opinion. We have our commitment, we have the conversation with the municipalities and we just want to go down that path. I have also heard from Mr Samsom, among others, that if the outcome of an agreement deviates slightly from the commitment, that is negotiable. That's different than bending the stakes now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u179	The concept of "use" alone is not the way the agreement was presented. The chord was presented as: it's five locations and Ter Apel, point. Today we have managed to achieve this work as a parliament, that in any case the PvdA was wider, because I did not even hear the VVD erecting a barrier there until the word 'betting' came. There's a fine hanging over the municipalities. In addition, there are all kinds of other things that have given municipalities the idea: why are we going to negotiate, we are only allowed to sign in the chalk drawing of the cabinet immediately. It is about the support of many municipalities. There are currently 30 to 40 places where there is a form of bed, bath and bread. Then I think: now cabinet, if you listen to this debate in the Chamber and say that the commitment may mean, as the motion literally says, that it is not excluded, I believe, to keep the possibility open, I believe the literal wording, let that be left to the opinion of the Chamber. That would help us. I think that the cabinet is giving a lot of room for its own negotiation process with the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u180	I think that what has been discussed in this debate, what has been said here and not said here, is very clear to municipalities. I hear "stopping" now. Then we'll go to 43 again. It is not for nothing that we have made that choice. We didn't make it by throwing a coin. We didn't say: five is nice, but six too, so Ter Apel gets a full pre-stage. There's a reason behind that choice. We are open to arguments, but we are not open to this discussion. We don't say, "Oh, man, it could be a different number." In the end, of course, the House itself decides how it votes on this motion. However, I do not think this motion will help me in the negotiations. So I'm sticking to the verdict.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u181	Proceed, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u182	On the motion in part No. I do not have, very technically, a judgment, because it is only a ruling of the Chamber. There's no request to the government. I am therefore simply saying that the cabinet does not agree with the ruling contained in that motion. In the motion in part No. 2001 gives an explanation of the European Social Charter, which the Cabinet has just said: that is a different reading from that of the Cabinet and the Committee of Ministers. That is why I also advise against this motion. I'm coming to the motion Slob c.s. in piece No. 2002. I can assure you that I will not serve threats at every meeting except for the coffee and the cookies. I'm not gonna keep hammering on it. The letter has once been clear about the ultimate relapse options. We do not want these options at all, because we want an agreement. So we will not keep coming back to this. It has been made clear how the cabinet feels about scenarios where it does not reach an agreement. After this debate, I think it is even more clear that we are committed to reaching an agreement in which these kinds of scenarios will not play a role. However, we are going a little far to withdraw this. Therefore, I also advise against this motion. The motion in part No. I must also advise against 2003 because in this way the will and responsibility is really out. This motion concerns people who cannot be forced to be expelled. If people can't be forced out, that usually doesn't mean they couldn't be deported if they were to cooperate in their own departure. That is a crucial difference that the cabinet does not want to remove. The motion in part No. 2004 by Mr Van Klaveren, I also advise against. What is being asked is very premature. In response to Mr Slob's motion, I said that we are not currently working on this measure at all, but that we are in the process of reaching an agreement. The motion-Van Haersma Buma c.s. In 2005 I also advise against it. The letter is the bet. That letter is clear and in it are the chalk lines. On the contrary, I have heard a lot of arguments not to close it in advance. This motion calls on us to do exactly that. I understand the intention of the motion in part No. 2006, by Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Van Haersma Buma. I share that intention, too. This certainly applies to the first part of the operative part. We are going to accept that this information must be provided as far as we are concerned. The second part of the operative part is more difficult. It will be difficult if the Empire and our services have to give the municipalities the entire files. This will take place in the Local Return Consultation. However, these files must remain with the services of the Empire. Where appropriate, for example, if a mayor makes an application on behalf of someone and I would respond to it, I can never add all the facts, given, among other things, the limitations imposed by the Protection of Personal Data Act. In the literal sense, therefore, I must also discourage this motion, because we cannot simply provide that information. However, I understand the spirit of the motion. It is also true that in the new agreement we want to establish that we are getting this flow of information from municipalities to the Empire and the services, so that we have a picture of this. We will, of course, also discuss this information in the local return. Then we will discuss what is happening in such a file and what progress is being made.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u183	Perhaps it is good for the reading of the motion that I stress that it concerns the provision of information. This does not mean that all the information needs to be provided and that the whole dossier needs to be discussed. However, it is a question of getting the relevant information that can help it, also to the municipal administration, to clarify what it is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u184	Maybe this could happen in that lecture. This must be about the Local Return Consultation. If that's what we're talking about, we can do it. We should not be given a flow of information where municipalities are going to build their own files, because then I would get in a bit of trouble again. For me, it is precisely important that the directional role should remain with the DT&V.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u185	What does that mean for the verdict on the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u186	In that case, I can leave the verdict to the Chamber, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u187	I know the cabinet as a cabinet that is always looking for broad support, including in the Chamber. Now twelve motions have been tabled. At the last one it was, after a push, judgment room. However, all other motions have been wiped off the table. Where's the support? Where is the outstretched hand of the Prime Minister, who is now working on his tie? What happened to the outstretched hand?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u188	I understand Mr Slob's qualification, but I do not think we have wiped out the motions in such a way. We are dealing with a special construction, because we are not just making a decision and laying down a plan with the cabinet and parliament. We encourage conversations so that we can come to a common solution with the municipalities. I can tell that space is there. There's been a lot of changes in the room. We all take that, but I would simply like to negotiate with the municipalities and I do not want to go to the municipality every time through parliament and then back again. I'd like to enter into the conversation with the letter and what has been exchanged here as a commitment. I would like to enter into the conversation without taking an advance on possible statements, negotiating positions or wishes from the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u189	The Chamber points the finger at the fact that the cabinet is going to negotiate, but threatens in advance with what will happen if no agreement is reached. Then the cabinet and the coalition parties say that it is not meant to be a threat, but that's what it says. A number of groups in the Chamber are asking for the threat to be removed and simply to enter into the conversation. The cabinet says no to that, because the motion is not recommended. We put our finger on the fact that there's talk of five plus one, so six locations. We ask the cabinet and the coalition parties whether that number has been poured into concrete or whether there is still room. Mr Zijlstra says that the number has not been mentioned for nothing, but that it is not a dictation. So there's room. That is neatly wrapped in a motion, so that some space is created and the cabinet can get support from the Chamber. That motion is also not recommended. A quote by Mr Samsom is even being used to make clear the intention of the coming period. That was Mr Pechtold's motion. That is exactly the same story: the motion is not recommended. That way we won't get there with each other. We spent hours here trying to see if we could find each other somewhere. I am very sorry that the cabinet reacts in this way to motions that I believe have been reasonably drafted.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u190	I'll take note of that. We have listened carefully to the Chamber. We're definitely taking it with us in the negotiations. I just didn't want to start a pre-negotiation phase by changing the stakes. It is clear that negotiations are going to take place and that an agreement with the municipalities still needs to be reached. That's just what we're going through.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u191	I have a question for the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u192	Mr Roemer, do you have a question for the Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u193	In this context, you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u194	Yes, but I want to keep the rulers from getting up and sitting down again, so we'll deal with the questions first to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u195	It could be the same question. In that case, the Secretary of State may answer him first and soon the Prime Minister. I heard the Secretary of State literally say that we're talking about "initiating conversation." Have we been meeting about that all day? Did the cabinet spend nine days in crisis in the Tower for that? For this, all motions are dissuaded and quarrels are made to the highest level of two parties. And what are we talking about? It's a start to conversation. They are literally the words of the Secretary of State. I welcome it, because it means that we still have plenty of room to come up with a humane policy. I encourage the Secretary of State to take maximum room for human policy in the negotiations. All agreements that have been made should be regarded as merely an incentive for discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u196	I also called it "betting" and "crayons." We can get one word out of it, but I think it's clear. This is what we want and what we are going to discuss with the municipalities for the administrative agreement. As far as we are concerned, we are coming up with an administrative agreement and you will see the result.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u197	I have a small technical question on the basis of the opinion given by the Secretary of State on the motion in part No. 2006 with the adjustment he proposed. He said the motion was acceptable. The consideration contained in it seems to imply that it assumes the primary responsibility of the government for foreigners without a right of residence who roam the streets. Can the Secretary of State shed light on this point, because that is an essential point in the whole discussion? The operative part is fine, but how does he read the first recital? We do not want this to be unclear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u198	You're right. I was probably a little too excited with this embrace. It's just how you read it. At least I see it as follows. It is not at all our commitment to put people out on the street, it is our commitment to bring people back when they are done. They don't wander the streets anymore. As far as I am concerned, it is not an extension of responsibility by offering alternative shelter to people who do not want to leave and who choose not to comply with the obligation to leave. If we have someone in our system now the big problem is that we just don't see someone like that. It's up to us to see what's the best way to get him back. In those occasional cases where there is an alternative circuit, we will point that out. That's what we're doing now. That's how I read the motion. I don't see it as an extension.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u199	I would like to emphasise that I also meant the Secretary of State's reading. It is not a kind of extension or a change of responsibilities. The commitment of the government must be directed towards achieving as close an approach as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u200	Mr Pechtold, you have a question for the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u201	I'd like to tell the Prime Minister the following. We've had a tough debate. This has wasted a great deal of time in the last few weeks. Time that could also have been used for issues that this country stands for. The coalition's gonna be short of 17 seats in the Senate in four weeks. The coalition has 76 seats in this Chamber. We're facing six months of uncertainty. I was just asking what the timetable is. The Prime Minister would come back to that in the second instance. Twelve motions are simply pushed and pulled away again, although those motions were not meant to put things on suspense again. They were intended as an incentive, as the Secretary of State himself said, for further refinement. As a parliament, we have a duty to ensure that we are able to control national policies. I see a period immediately in which an urgent debate is requested on every splinter that comes out. The urgent debate after urgent debate is blocked by 76 seats, which further ruins the atmosphere. I ask the Prime Minister whether it is not wise to include us in what is going to happen in the next six months and to give the Chamber more room for thought than it is now, in order to broaden the scope for support and to give us a chance towards the summer to strengthen our support for this difficult problem that all the parties have faced in recent years. Or does he persist with those 76 seats to ram things through every settlement?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u202	Mr. Chairman. I do not see that choice that Mr Pechtold has just outlined. In response to his speech, I see that there is now a clear vision of the cabinet on this difficult issue. How do you move people to cooperate in their departure, people who have been put out and can't leave? Or, don't seem to want to leave. How do you do that? There's an approach to this. It has been said before, it is not Columbus' egg, it is not the solution to all problems. But that is a big step. Was that immediately a logical conclusion? No, you could see that, because we've been together for a while. I'm not ashamed of that. I said it, in this coalition it will happen more often that we need time to come to a common understanding. If it isn't necessary, we don't take that time, but if it is necessary, we have to take that time. Is this what has left other important work behind? I'm glad you didn't. In areas such as budget, tax reform and other major issues, we have continued to work. Large files may have been slightly delayed, but certainly not severely delayed. At least that's good news. The store has therefore simply remained open during this matter. We stayed at work. In this debate, the differences have been somewhat magnified. That makes sense, because you are having a debate on a cabinet letter on an issue that we have discussed for nine days. I understand very well that the opposition says: we just want to make sure that you are in agreement. Where are any differences of opinion? My political conclusion is that this debate has shown us to be a coalition unisono. I think it is important for the Secretary of State of V and J to have the opportunity to work with the municipalities. If we need to report in detail and clarify our commitment, when we do not want to talk in advance about what "a limited number of weeks" is. We want to look at that in consultation with experts, municipalities and so on, then that is not going to work. I'd like to turn it around. All three of us feel obliged to inform the Chamber as soon as we think this really helps in the process. If we turn it around by saying exactly "we are with the municipalities there, then we are there and on that date we are going to deliver, and that will be our commitment on that part," you will negotiate completely with the cards open, while it will be really complicated conversations. The Chamber has heard the congregations. I think we can figure it out. It's gonna be pretty complicated conversations. Serviceable to the success of those talks will be that we conduct them in a certain confidentiality. This means two things. First of all, this means the following responsibility for us as a cabinet. I agree with you that if we think that there are times when we have to report, for example when the Council of State comes up with that ruling at any time, we will inform the Chamber about it. Another example is when negotiations with the municipalities at some point have a certain dynamic that we say: now it is really necessary to update the Chamber. We want that broad support and we do not want to ram things through with those 76 seats. We want broad support, especially on this dossier. Then that's what we'll do. The promise is that we will do so immediately. Secondly, on the other hand, I would ask the Chamber to give us the opportunity to start this process and not to ask us again to come up with a letter with further details. I think that this is the best way of working in the spirit that we have developed with each other in many cases in recent years, precisely on the basis of the conviction that this coalition is seeking broad support.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u203	I think the Prime Minister is failing the role of the Chamber. I also think that, given this history, the Prime Minister should involve the Chamber much more in order to get that support right away. If, on the day after the Committee of Ministers had given its opinion, the cabinet had come up with a position, the Chamber could then have discussed it. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Maar we hebben nu een voorgeschiedenis van negen dagen bekvechten en verschillen.]] It is our job to see whether that holds up and whether that is based on anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u204	Of course. Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u205	It is now clear to me that this debate is the after-drink of the fact that things are on a patient note on the basics, but that there is still, in fact, a complete negotiation with municipalities, where the majorities, in particular the majorities that attach themselves to what they have done in recent years, are great. I refer to all these statements: today Rotterdam, today Utrecht, Amsterdam, Groningen al, Nijmegen al, Arnhem al. I ask the Prime Minister if it is wise to say that the Chamber can wait quietly because the cabinet will come. Is it not wiser, and then I use the Prime Minister's words to turn it around and allow the Prime Minister to use a greater majority of the House here to ensure that there is eventually acceptance? Otherwise, I predict that it will harden in the cities and in the Chamber, which means that we will face each other on 1 November and not get any further on this dossier.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u206	Then it is more a matter of form and objective. I think Mr Pechtold and I agree. The further operationalisation of the letter is not only about the municipalities, but also about other parts. It is not the case that everything has to land in the administrative agreement. There are also many other aspects, both international and national, which should otherwise be converted into concrete actions from the Ministry of V and J and partly from the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation. In all these areas, we seek broad support. We agree on that. The only question is which form is the best. The form that was suggested here and in the first installment, I really weighed on the hand. This was first a more detailed timetable and later a further clarification of the stakes. But it's about the latter. I sincerely believe, as I have said in my speech, that the Cabinet agrees on these elements, but at the same time the Cabinet considers it important to speak with experts and all kinds of others in order to arrive at a final definition of, for example, a certain time limit of an x-number of weeks. I say this to Mr Pechtold. First of all, we are placing support at the centre of our work. That is an essential point for us. We also undertake to update the Chamber at times when we believe that this is necessary. At the same time, however, I do not go so far as to suggest that I am already providing a detailed guide because I do not think that this will promote the process.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u207	In view of the way in which Parliament's input and motions have been dealt with, I would like to question the Prime Minister's remark that he considers it very important to support it. I kind of miss that in the relationship with the Chamber now. Anyway, I have one more question about the whole timetable. I assume you will now have to report back to the Committee of Ministers on what you are going to do with the ruling. Can we assume that the Chamber will be informed immediately if there is a response back?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u208	Yeah, if there's a reaction, you'll hear it. We don't necessarily expect them. Our response to the Committee's ruling is the letter we are discussing here today. If there's a reaction to that, we'll look into it. In addition, we saw a response from the UN last Thursday. It seemed to be ill-informed; on the basis of insufficient information. Work has been done to ensure that the relevant agencies at the United Nations are aware of the precise content of the letter. There seemed to be a misunderstanding that it would be about people who did cooperate in return and then would no longer have shelter. That is not what this letter is about, so we have made that clear. I do not know exactly where we stand with that process, but we are doing everything we can to inform all relevant actors of our policies. If there is another reaction from the committee, the Chamber will hear it. The answer we send is this letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u209	I think it's clear. The deal is clear. The cabinet also corresponds to the planned policy towards the Committee, and the Chamber will be informed of this when a response is received.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u210	Yeah, that's what we've been promised.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-30-tweedekamer-6.u211	The vote on the motions tabled will take place this evening. We're about to continue the work schedule and then we'll have dinner break.
