ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u1	Mr. Chairman. When I read the newspaper yesterday, I thought: have they gone completely mad, there in Brussels? That was the first thing I thought. The EU Commissioner for Transport has invented the need for a European mileage tax. As far as the VVD is concerned, that's a dead end. Mileage charge, no way. That is what we said here in the Netherlands with very nice stickers and that is what we say when it comes to Europe. Because Europe needs to be there for more trade, therefore more jobs and therefore more prosperity. And not to make it harder on the driver or the truck driver when they cross the border. In this respect, we believe there is still a world to be won. Think of the driver who now has to take a truck full of paper with him when crossing the German border to prove that he is receiving the minimum wage, think of the truck driver who tries to comply with the driving and rest decision in France by sleeping in a cabin and is then faced with a high fine or think of that truck driver crossing to Dover and dealing with stowaways, for which he is also being charged. On the contrary, Europe was once created to enable the free movement of goods and people, to promote trade and to create prosperity. Is the Commission not correct in resolving a German toll problem by making it an even bigger European problem? As far as we're concerned, Brussels needs to get back in the booth. It should not be deviously trying to get a blue envelope with European stars through the Dutch mailbox. We are not waiting for that. Brussels simply needs to do what it was set up to do. I would like a reaction from the cabinet, preferably via the line we have just outlined. How does the Secretary of State judge these strange plans of the EU Commissioner? Was the strategic agenda not there to carry out fewer tasks rather than more? Shouldn't we just keep the current agreements before we come up with new things? Because as far as we're concerned, there's still a long way to go. Our drivers get it easier instead of harder if they don't have to take all those papers with them when crossing the German border and if they can just stay in France and if they don't face fines...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u2	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u3	...if they cross over to England. To ask the Secretary of State if she's gonna pick up this glove.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u4	Mr. Chairman. The Minister is abroad today, so I will answer Mrs Visser's questions. I have also taken note of Commissioner Bulc's article, which states that it wants a mileage tax for the whole of Europe. My view is that there are no concrete plans by the Commission to introduce a mileage tax on a European scale. I can reassure Mrs Visser in this respect, because the Dutch government agreement explicitly states that there will be no mileage tax in the Netherlands during this cabinet period. The cabinet is against pricing, because it creates new barriers in Europe. I think that is what Mrs Visser is referring to. From this point of view, the Minister has regularly opposed the German plans to introduce a vignette for passenger vehicles on the German motorways during the past year, and has spoken regularly with her colleague Mr Dobrindt of Germany. Of course, I am not talking about the German plan; that is what Germany itself is about. I do see clear differences between this plan and the German plan. As is well known, the German plan is not something the Netherlands is in favour of. If you look at Europe's plan, I cannot say what effect that has on the German plan. The German plan should be implemented already in 2016, while Europe's plan appears to be on the agenda later. On the basis of the tax base, that is to say, the tax base, the following. The German plan is a vignette which is valid for a certain period of time, while Europe's plan is about the number of kilometres travelled and thus distance bound. I have no idea what the effects of these plans are on each other. But the cabinet's position on the German and European plan is now known.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u5	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for replying. The German plan is clear to me, as is the Minister's commitment in this matter to prevent us from getting a German toll on land, at sea and in the air. That is why it has also been submitted to the European Commission for a ruling. But instead of making a statement, we are looking for a new European tax, which has a much wider scope. As far as we are concerned, this makes it a bigger problem, rather than addressing Germany with regard to the nature of the toll it wants to pay, because it is simply discrimination and the fight against the free movement of transport. We therefore call once again on the cabinet to indicate how it is going to proceed in this process in order to avoid any proposal for a European mileage tax at all. We would also like to receive a response from the Cabinet on how it assesses this proposal, precisely in the context of the strategic agenda that is being adopted. It proposes to move towards fewer tasks and to ensure that Europe is once again involved in the tasks that are really necessary. Is there not a world to be won when it comes to enforcing, for example, the driving and rest periods law? Should the German minimum wage not be achieved and what this means for the paperwork faced by a lorry driver? We'd like to hear a reaction from the cabinet. Are you gonna pick up that glove? A European mileage tax is, as far as we are concerned, really the world upside down. Let me be very clear. As far as the VVD is concerned, it is not mileage tax then, not now and not later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u6	I have just indicated how we look at a European plan. Look at the differences that exist in Europe. The Czech Republic has a sticker, Switzerland has a vignette and France has péage. You must imagine that the latter is a hundred-year contract. I am therefore very curious to see how effective Mrs Bulc can be in Europe. When it comes to lorry drivers and all transport in Europe, I think it is important that this can be done as optimally as possible. I repeat myself. I have already indicated how we are looking at the German plan for tolls and the European mileage tax. We are not in favour of it. The basic principles are also clearly laid down in the coalition agreement, with which Mrs Visser is well aware. I think that's the starting point. I think it's important that...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u7	Thank you. I call Mr Van Helvert.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u8	The CDA also thinks it's a ridiculous plan; we thought it was a weird idea when we heard it. In my view, Europe does not create any roads in the first place, and the proceeds had to be returned to the countries immediately. You'd say stay out of it. The question we would like to ask the Secretary of State is what role the cabinet sees for our Dutch Commissioner Frans Timmermans. He's gonna make rules disappear instead of joining them. You would actually expect this Commissioner to receive an open reprimand for the Commissioner in question. So we ask the cabinet what it sees in a role for Commissioner Timmermans.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u9	European Commissioners are part of a council, as the cabinet has a number of different members. Mrs Bulc made these statements. She deals with her own portfolio and her own statements. It is indeed important that we look at how slow Europe is becoming. For the subjects that concern me, I have always said: a high ambition is fine but make it work with fewer rules. The responsibility for the way in which Mr Timmermans will respond to this as a Commissioner and a colleague, I leave it to Mr Timmermans. I think he is well aware of the opinion of this cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u10	It must be clear: it cannot become "en-en-en-en" for the driver. If you go on vacation in the summer and drive through France, you can put a locker in your car. In Switzerland and Austria you need a vignette. Of course, that's only gonna be more. Before we can no longer look outside the vignettes, I ask: how does the Secretary of State assess the benefits of a more uniform system? This is almost unrelated to whether it should be collected through Europe or not. And what benefits would that have for people living in a border region? They sometimes have to do with three or four different systems.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u11	I have just indicated: the Czech Republic has a sticker, Switzerland has a vignette, there is péage. I think harmonisation is a good thing in itself, because it helps to remove divisions and differences and makes it easier. There is already a directive on the harmonisation of toll systems in Europe. Nevertheless, there are still different systems. The Minister has already said in the AO Transport Council on this issue that she does not want to advocate a single system in Europe, and for no system. This new idea also gives me no reason to advocate further harmonisation in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u12	What an unprecedented lukewarm response from the cabinet to this terrible toll plan from Brussels. I expect from the cabinet nothing less than to send a letter to the Commissioner today that the Netherlands absolutely does not accept any toll from Brussels and that these plans can go straight into the trash. I remind the VVD and the government parties of the plan to tax the Netherlands...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u13	The question needs to be asked to the Secretary of State, and you did, so I'd like to...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u14	I would like to remind you of last year's Brussels post-tax. Then it was also said no by the cabinet...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u15	But you already asked your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u16	... and was eventually drawn at the cross. So I have little confidence that the Commissioner will listen. However, I would like a letter to the Commission today in which the Netherlands rejects this plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u17	I don't recognize the term "low reaction." I've been pretty clear about where the word "no" begins and ends. It consists of three letters. I think it is a good thing that we remain consistent and consistent, in line with how the cabinet has reacted so far. This applies both to the German toll plan and to the European kilometre tax. Mr Madlener also knows the coalition agreement. I can't be any clearer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u18	When I heard of this plan, I realized how European dignitaries managed to effectively increase the anti-European sentiment among the people of Europe. I have deep and great admiration for the way they do it. The Secretary of State notes that there is no plan or proposal yet. That's right, this is a balloon. A balloon like that needs to be punctured. I have heard the Secretary of State say that, on the basis of the coalition agreement, she is prepared to pierce that balloon.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u19	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u20	I'd like to know how she's gonna pierce that balloon. What concrete steps is the government going to take to put an end to this kind of weird idea?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u21	It is, of course, customary for proposals to reach the European Parliament after the Transport Council. There you are more influential than I am. That'll find its way. We will pay attention to this in the contacts with Commissioner Bulc, who is also taking place one-on-one. We will indicate our position in advance at times when proposals will come forward. We will, of course, also make our position clear in the Transport Council, because that is where it will eventually have to be discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u22	Thank you for your answers. You may stay for a while, because the next question will also be put to you.
