ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-28.u1	Mr President, I run a bit difficult, because I played football with the Dutch Parliament on Saturday. I shouldn't have done that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-28.u2	The Dutch House of Representatives has won.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-28.u3	We won 5-0 from the mayors. So that's very nice. Mr. Chairman. Some time ago, we talked to the former Minister of Justice about the police and about the fact that many police stations will be closed in the next ten years. The Chamber is concerned about this, in the sense that people need to be properly served. We get many complaints from citizens or aldermen and mayors who are worried: how are we going to do this? We think that if those offices close, there should be some kind of communicating vessel. The services of the police and the driving times must be such that people who need the police are also able to count on the police. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government intends to close at least 200 police stations over the next 10 years;]] [[Whereas, prior to decision on the closure of a police station, the consequences for service provision and driving times should be made clear;]] [[Furthermore, considering that e-services and site-independent work should operate optimally in practice before police stations can be closed;]] [[calls on the Government not to close police stations as long as the level of service and driving time is not guaranteed,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Oskam, Mr Berndsen-Jansen and Mr Kooiman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29628-516]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-28.u4	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate the Minister on the extremely beautiful portfolio he has, namely police. I understand that there are also very nice actions on the agenda tomorrow, where the police pass by to say that they want more appreciation and recognition. I hope that this Minister will organise the collective agreement for the police properly. We also discussed other problems during the debate, for example the huge gap in the police budget and the closure of posts. That is why I signed Mr Oskam's motion. I'll file the next motion myself. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that investigations conducted by the Central Police Works Council, validated by Andersson Elfers Felix, show that the cost of reorganisation in the police department is EUR 200 million higher than estimated;]] [[Whereas the Government doubts the accuracy of that amount but does not clarify the extent of the setback;]] [[calls on the Government, the expected overrun of the costs of reorganisation and the consequences that it has in the short term and to report to the Court,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kooiman and Mr Berndsen-Jansen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29628-517]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-28.u5	Mr. Chairman. We had already congratulated the new minister in a general discussion. Then he said: I look forward to debating in plenary. His wish has been fulfilled. Yeah, he's in "K." The previous Minister for Security and Justice, Mr Opstelten, had promised my group to look into the situation with regard to the dog serving the border control team of the port police in Rotterdam. During a working visit I was reminded that it was very difficult that that dog was no longer present on that team. If such a dog was needed for detection, he had to come from the East of the Netherlands. I then considered tabling a motion on behalf of my group, but the Minister took the concept of speed very seriously. He called during the suspension of the debate and asked if this could be taken into account. The next day there would be consultations. I checked that myself, and that turned out to be the case. Needs would also be addressed. So I'm not filing a motion. I wanted to use the speaking time to point out to the new Minister for Security and Justice that I will keep an eye on this, but I assume that it will be all right and that it will be all right. That's why I'm not filing a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-28.u6	Mr. Chairman. My struggle with the former Minister of Security and Justice involved him, among other things, in the fact that students are fully included in operational employability. I think it is a good thing that this new minister is going to look into this too, because that is absolutely not real. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a significant drop-out of baby boomers is expected in the next few years;]] [[further noted that the influx is seriously inadequate and that the current operational strength should allow time for accompanying aspirants;]] [[Whereas students are not fully employable until they have completed their training;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the entry of students into the Police College is such as to ensure the employability of operational strength in the National Police,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Berndsen-Jansen and Mr Kooiman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29628-518]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-28.u7	During the same general consultation, we discussed the deployment of school district agents. Later on, we heard the Chief Constable say that he is a great supporter of that. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that there is a breeding ground for radicalisation and terrorism, particularly in schools for VMBO and MBO;]] [[also noted that district agents are an important partner for schools and social workers and have an important role in the fight against radicalisation and terrorism;]] [[whereas some municipalities already work with school district agents, but this is not yet happening everywhere in the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the government to give the police the room to work with school district agents after alignment with the local triangle,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Berndsen-Jansen and Mr Oskam. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29628-519]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-28.u8	I give the floor to the Minister for Security and Justice to respond to the motions tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-28.u9	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. I would like to thank those Members who have spoken kindly in my direction. I am indeed very pleased that the Chamber has already taken advantage of the opportunity to call me to the Chamber. I look forward to a very constructive cooperation with the Chamber in the coming years. This general consultation took place with my predecessor. We're having a new general discussion on police this week. In itself, the motions could have waited until that consultation, because then I could have told you more about my policy and the new insights. I am now taking these issues with me in the assessment of the motions that I have received. I shall begin with Mr Oskam's motion, co-signed by Mrs Berndsen of D66. I like that motion. We're going through a 10-year trial to get the locations of the police stations in order. That process was started a long time ago. It is carefully considered to ensure that precisely the issues currently under discussion, services and driving times, remain in order. But that's local customization. It is a local process adapted to local conditions. That's what local government is all about. In this respect, it would be very undesirable for a national standard to be agreed on this point tonight because it is precisely local customisation. That is why the ten-year period has been chosen, because the process must be careful. That is why I have to reject the motion, despite the fact that I support the principles, which is why we are taking ten years to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-28.u10	I would like to inform you that Mrs Kooiman has also signed the motion. I don't get it. We've chosen national police. This means that things can be arranged centrally. Of course, offices in the regions close but precisely in those regions, and if that does not work in the neighbouring regions, we must be able to replace them. We need to make sure that, even if there's no more police, if you live in Northeast Groningen, the police will be at the door if anything happens. That is why it is important to have central control. The Minister must at least tell the security regions and the police regions that it must be regulated in this way. It is therefore important that the motion be adopted.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-28.u11	We do not disagree on this. The nice thing is that the issues raised in the motion at national level must be looked at locally, with local authority. The policy should be implemented in consultation with local authority and on the basis of local customisation. Only if there is local agreement on the conditions, on the driving times and on whatever, will the police decide to close offices if necessary. But that is a local issue. It is ill-advised to adopt a national motion which then takes that decision back to the country. The motion calls on the government not to close police stations, but that should not be an address to the government but to the local mayors. This motion should therefore be submitted by the municipal councils in all security regions. My objection is not so much about the starting point of the motion, which I find sympathetic, but about the way in which the motion is worked out. I must, in consultation with the Chamber, close a police station in Northeast Groningen, while the local mayor in the local triangle, the region, the security region deals with that. That's important. I'm talking to the mayors. I talked to them last week, too. They stress that I should not touch their local policies at national level. That's what happens in the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-28.u12	It's just the local mayors who are upset about this. They argue that they should close offices because this was agreed in the government agreement. The central government tells the mayors that in Northeast Groningen ten offices will be closed and that they will have to find out which ones. They need to make sure this is settled locally. Doesn't that mean that the Minister has a hand in that and that he has to make sure that the equipment and driving times are in order? That's a central issue, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-28.u13	I understand what Mr Oskam is saying. This is indeed a central issue because the central government is ultimately responsible for the overall picture. However, local authority must decide on the driving times and when the police station will be closed. This is decided by local authority depending on whether adequate coverage has been provided in the new concept. That is what this is about, and that is why it has been chosen for a period of 10 years. It says here for a reason: ten years. We don't do this in one year. I therefore have no choice but to advise against this motion, no matter how sympathetic I think it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-28.u14	A housing plan has been made. It says that desks are being shut down. Mayors would have had a say in this. It now appears that this has not been the case in practice at all. I would therefore like to ask the new Minister of Justice to investigate that again. If he reads the motion correctly, he will see that there are a number of preconditions. Does he even agree with these conditions? After all, the Minister is responsible for the implementation of the policy of the National Police. This is about housing policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-28.u15	There are indeed conditions in it. I also know a few other conditions. On the basis of these conditions, it is decided at local level to close a certain police station. That follows from the housing plan. A ten-year deadline has been set for this, because we believe that local requirements should be taken into account as much as possible. That is also the task I receive from the so-called Article 19 consultation. I therefore say once again that I think this is a nice motion. However, she comes to the wrong place and at the wrong time. That's why I'm sticking with it. Dissuade her.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-28.u16	The Article 19 consultation is very nice, but that is a consultation with the regional mayors. However, I am getting signals from other mayors. They appear to have had no say whatsoever in the fact that these offices close in their municipalities. It is therefore a question of who these mayors of the region have spoken on behalf of.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-28.u17	I think the name says it all: regional mayors speak on behalf of the region. The regional mayors are part of the security regions. They're talking to their colleagues. I'll talk to the Article 19 meeting myself. There are also representatives of the UNG. Two mayors sit there on behalf of the VNG. They also agree with the housing plan drawn up by Mayor Aboutaleb of Rotterdam. They've developed that. Mrs Berndsen can say that there is a mayor, or maybe two or more mayors are not involved. That is not my problem, however, but the problem of the regional mayors. We must be realistic about this. I therefore say once again that I like the motion. I believe that this, with more things, should be the framework for assessing at regional level what can and cannot be done. However, this is not something for the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-28.u18	We do not agree with that. This isn't in the law either. The Minister is responsible, for example, for driving times and for the safety of the Netherlands. He's the boss of the National Police, for which I congratulated him. If the Minister is responsible for safety, he also wants by definition to examine the extent to which driving times are stretched, for example, and to what extent safety is affected. Is he willing to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-28.u19	We're talking about a ten-year project here. Mrs Kooiman is actually asking me to look into my glass ball and to say what might happen in a certain region in ten years' time. Precisely for that, we have local authority. That's exactly what the mayors keep asking me. They keep telling me: give us room to implement this at local level. I'll give them that space. This means that I must then say to the Chamber: leave that responsibility with the regional mayors. Of course, as Minister for Security and Justice, I ultimately take responsibility for the policy as a whole. I will. If the Chamber gives me the opportunity to do so, I will discuss it periodically with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-28.u20	That's too late, because then police stations will be closed. There will be no police station in the Frisian Lakes and surroundings. In Winterswijk the driving times are already overwritten. The police must be in place within 15 minutes of a prio 1 report, but it has already taken 45 minutes. However, posts are already being closed there. The Minister must therefore act now. What is the effect of closing those posts? I don't want to wait ten years for that, and the police certainly don't want that. The Minister must act now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-28.u21	If you have a plan that lasts ten years, it's a little difficult to take action now. You don't know what's going on in ten years. That is why we have chosen that ten-year period. We want to be completely careful when it comes to this plan. But Mrs Kooiman is making a good point, namely the driving times. That's something you're worried about as a minister. Mrs Kooiman is quite right to raise this point. That standard is therefore closely monitored, not only by me, but above all by the mayors and the regional mayors. As we know, we're aiming at 90% within fifteen minutes of a prio-1 alert. This is not yet possible everywhere; in a number of regions we are well above it. Strictly speaking, therefore, this standard is or is not yet being complied with, but that will be the starting point for decisions on closing agencies.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-28.u22	You're moving on to the second motion filed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-28.u23	In the motion in part No. 517 members of Mr Kooiman and Mr Berndsen-Jansen are asked to present to the cabinet the expected overrun of the costs of reorganisation and the consequences that this has in the short term and to report to the Chamber on them. The motion is not really necessary for the following reason. The pluses and the mins that apply to the National Police, about which the Chamber is informed, are always included in the budget. It is a little strange to draw one point, the reorganisation costs, from that, because they are generally deducted from other items that are not too bad. Then it is a little strange to inform the Chamber separately on that one point, whereas that is decided in the budget as I discuss it with the Chamber. We are talking to the central works council and, of course, to the National Police themselves about these aspects and about the budget. This Chamber shall be informed thereof. That is why I must discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-28.u24	It's about the National Police budget. As the Minister knows, there are big holes in that. But is he prepared to indicate, on the basis of this motion, where the failures are? I'm very curious about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-28.u25	I think that Mrs Berndsen agrees with me that the moment we have to talk about this is when I present my budget to the Chamber. This happens, in the usual cycle that Mrs Berndsen now knows, in the autumn. It's a little crazy to expect me to take out all those individual posts prior to that treatment. Furthermore, Mrs Kooiman said that tomorrow I am supposed to receive 1,200 police officers to repair the collective agreement and to do something special about it. The wage requirement is currently around 9%. If I agree with that tomorrow under pressure from the policemen involved, I would indeed have a gap in the budget, not only in the police, but also in the department.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-28.u26	I think it is good financial management that, if you see that there is a significant overrun of the reorganisation costs, you will at least see what the overall picture will look like. Maybe this minister and his colleague in the finance department can see how he can fix that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-28.u27	Of course, I am going to map all of this, on which I will inform the Chamber carefully at the time when my department's budget is being discussed. I am already looking forward to the debate on this, because it will be a challenging budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-28.u28	We are tabling this motion because we do not want to wait until it is too late. The minister's predecessor has already indicated that it is a worrying report. It's been validated, but we can assume the Minister has the case under control. I want to hear what's wrong with Andersson Elfers Felix's report. These are concerns that police and room have. We have a right to information. That's why I want that information.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-28.u29	As I said in reply to Mrs Berndsen's question, you will receive that information, and that information, from the budget, which we will be discussing in the autumn. That is precisely when you can show these kinds of points in full coherence. I cannot make it more beautiful than it is, as much as I would like to do for Mrs Kooiman, knowing her enthusiasm for the police organisation. She's gonna have to be patient until we talk about my department's budget. I can therefore map the complete picture for her, which she can then debate with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-28.u30	The 200 million I mention in the motion I tabled with Mrs Berndsen is mainly in the cost of reorganisation. If we wait another year, those reorganisation costs are already wasted. I don't want to wait till it's too late. When can we finally expect that information from this minister? As a Member of Parliament, I simply want to be well informed. I want to know what we can do as a room to solve that problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-28.u31	I promise that I will send this information to the Chamber swiftly in the context of the usual budgetary cycle, as Mrs Kooiman knows. I very much appreciate that Mrs Kooiman, on the part of the SP Group, has indicated her willingness to do everything possible to help resolve the financial bottlenecks that I will undoubtedly encounter. All support in this respect is certainly welcome. Then I come to the motion on part No. 518 members Berndsen-Jansen and Kooiman. This concerns the influx of students from the Police College in relation to the outflow of people who reach the retirement age within the police. That is one of the issues on which I, even this week, discussed extensively with the National Police and the Chief of Police. The signal that Mrs Berndsen-Jansen and Mrs Kooiman are sending in this motion is correct. We are dealing between now and two or four years with an enormous outflow from the National Police for functional age discharge. It will indeed be a challenge to include the entry into the Police College. On that point, I am in regular conversation with the National Police. We realise that the signal is true that Mrs Berndsen-Jansen is issuing this motion, but we are looking at it from year to year. Nevertheless, I shall leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. I would also like to point out that this point has my full attention. The last motion, the one in part No. 519 by Mr Berndsen-Jansen and Mr Oskam is an unnecessary motion, as my predecessor has always said. Again, it is up to local authority to determine how and where district agents are deployed. If the local triangle says that there should be work with school district cops, then so be it. There's no reason why that shouldn't be possible. However, as Minister for Security and Justice, I will not take it up myself, because this is the domain of the local triangle. That is why I must discourage the motion, despite the fact that I like to leave the room to the regional mayors and the individual mayors in the local triangle to make their own considerations on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-28.u32	The mayors of the region have nothing to do with this, because in the end they are only about a piece of management, when this is a policy. The fact that I tabled that motion is mainly due to the fact that the standard is now one district agent out of 5,000 inhabitants. If you want to continue to apply that standard, under certain circumstances you will have fewer district agents. Will the Minister leave room for the police to deploy more district agents in schools and release the standard of one district agent at 5,000 inhabitants?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-28.u33	As sympathetic as that may be, I believe that my predecessor has already indicated to Mrs Berndsen-Jansen on the same subject, even to Mrs Berndsen-Jansen, that this standard will then mean that more agents will be needed on balance, because a number of district agents will be missing. This while the policy is right, also in consultation with Article 19 mayors and with the local triangle, to focus as much as possible on police presence in the neighbourhoods. So it's up to the local triangle to decide whether it's a school district cop, a regular district cop or a district cop with a job setting school. Everyone who has read the Algemeen Dagblad in the past week knows that agents near schools can be very important to curb young people's criminal careers. However, it is up to the local triangle to make those choices. So I still have to discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-28.u34	So the minister says this. If the local triangle decides by way of derogation from the rule of one district agent in 5,000 inhabitants that extra district agents come out of the operational strength, then the minister has no problem with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-28.u35	I didn't say that at all. It is true that we have that standard, because we also know that there must be other capacity. If Mrs Berndsen says that we make that standard five, six or three times as high, then we have a lot of district agents but there is a lot of other work to be done. That's the standard we agreed on. How the task of those specific district agents is fulfilled is to the local triangle. It doesn't mean I suddenly have room for more district agents, although I'd like to. If Mrs Berndsen says that she still has some extra money for me, she generally has very good and interesting ideas about it, sometimes in violation of the law, sometimes not so much as I would recommend it. However, I must continue to dissuade this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-28.u36	The vote on the motions tabled will take place next Tuesday.
