ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u1	Madam President. The SGP group inspired me with a few words from Einstein: "Peace cannot be kept by force; it can only be achieved by understanding." I happen to be thinking about Einstein myself when I was preparing this debate. That was necessary, because we have a rather complicated situation ahead of us. Several Members have commented on the horrors of the Gaza war and we must do everything we can to prevent a new war. I was thinking about the definition Einstein gave of madness. If you do everything the same way over and over again, as a ritual, and still think there's another outcome, that might be madness, too, according to him. I call that because I also hear the well-known views of various parties in the Chamber, and I recognize those views because I have been working on this subject for years. However, we need to think together here about the following questions. Why has it not been possible to achieve what we all want to achieve so far: a two-state solution and peace and security for the Palestinians and Israeli citizens? And how is it that, in our instruments and in the way we dealt with them, we have apparently not achieved the results we wanted to achieve? Some will say: we have not achieved these results, because we have put too little pressure on one of the parties. Others will say that too much has happened. Some people here say that we have supported the Palestinians too much. Others say that there has been too little pressure on Israel. I would like to come back to that later, because these are very important elements of the debate. However, I think it is important to listen to and watch Einstein. A few things have remained the same, everyone agrees today: there is no Palestinian state yet, while we want a two-state solution, and the negotiations are in a very poor state, to be honest. Some even say that the peace process is dead. That's a pretty harsh observation. I can't make this place any prettier than it is. Besides, something else might be even more important. We must realise that the geopolitical map in the world has changed in such a way that the setting in which the Israeli-Palestinian conflict must be resolved is another. Without falling into the Einstein definition of madness, we must therefore consider how, in the current situation, we can prevent another war from breaking out, people getting hit and there is injustice. Everyone is looking for this, with different means and also with different analyses. Let me mention some of the points of this changing analysis, which is why I should be better able to indicate how I think we should move forward. I will, of course, answer all your questions, but I would like to start with this. This is, for me, the most important motivation, including as Minister for Foreign Affairs. Some people say: do we have to do something about this and move on to a dead horse? I find this unacceptable for two reasons. The first reason is justice and the need to reach a good agreement, also in response to the comments of the SGP Group. The second reason is that, in a sense, the situation has become even more dangerous, regardless of justice, because of the situation and geopolitical developments in the region. There are a number of additional risks, but also a number of new opportunities. I think we should name those opportunities. The Netherlands is not going to change the situation there on its own. We're not gonna be able to do that. We need allies, not to hide behind the UN or behind the European Union, but to form strong coalitions to prevent a repetition of the Gaza war. For all kinds of reasons, you have indicated it here: what happened there is unacceptable to everyone. That's right. I will come back to some of the reports that have been drawn up on this subject. On the Palestinians side, we are dealing with a totally divided negotiating partner. Just think about the differences between Hamas and the Palestinian Authority, but also about the differences within those two entities. That's a big problem for every negotiation. It's not a question of guilt for me, it's a question of reality. Furthermore, shifts, divisions and changes are taking place in a different situation in the Arab world, where there are also opportunities and risks. The risks are a further radicalisation of organisations within Gaza, but also within the Palestinian Authority. If people feel like they can't live for anything, maybe they choose the violence. This would mean that there would also be a radicalisation which would make peace even more difficult. That is why I think it is so urgent to work on this, regardless of justice. This is part of a geopolitical scene on which radicalism and extremism have gained enormous influx, both in numbers and in severity of developments. This also means that there are big questions for an organization like Hamas. Think of the great risks that one takes by showing off with Iran on the one hand and Saudi Arabia on the other. Hamas has thus also become part of a geopolitical situation within the Arab world. At the same time, a country like Egypt is much more and much closer against Israel. So there is a radical change taking place among the coalition members that we need in order to achieve peace. Another example is the role of the United States. I agree with a number of speakers in the Chamber that this role is essential. But it's also different than it was a while ago. The United States has made it clear that they are not the only ones who want to take the big risks in this area. They say: we are a partner and we are still important. I believe that it is particularly important for Israel to have American presence in the Israeli-Palestinian negotiations. But we also know that the priority in the United States is now to establish an effective controllable agreement with Iran. This means that I do not expect major initiatives to be taken in this area until the end of June. Maybe I'm wrong, but I think there's another priority now. Something has also changed in Europe. That is much more strategic than we would have thought a few years ago. I say honestly that I think that I would not have advised Mr Omtzigt and Mr Sjoerdsma to vote in favour of the motion. Again, I think it is important not to hide us, but to choose clearly, also for a European role in this. In doing so, Europe must not take on that role alone, but, as far as I am concerned, in new coalitions with the Arab world and with the United States. We do not have much time to waste, because let there be no misunderstanding: the situation is bad. The spokesmen spoke about the new Israeli government. The Netherlands will indeed look at and assess what the Israeli Government is going to propose. It is positive news that the first effort that we have all really emphasised in recent weeks is a growing consensus within Europe and that we have a responsibility there, both because of justice on both sides and because of urgency and risks. That part needs to get bigger. It is also laid down in a number of conclusions of the European Union which Members know and which have been repeated in the debate. These conclusions relate to the two-state solution and support for building Palestinian state-building through economic cooperation. There are different views in the Chamber, I know, but I think that is an essential point. At the same time, we have asked Mrs Mogherini to take up this role. That has happened unisono, which is quite unique in Europe, because when it comes to this problem, you always had a lot of different schools, so to speak. Now everyone understands the urgency of this. We have therefore put forward a number of measures which depend on the cooperation of the parties in the process. I can now say that I am not going to anticipate that, because I want to give this a chance. This has to do with the cooperation of the parties. That has been an important conclusion. Yesterday, in the Council of Foreign Ministers in Europe, we decided to ask Mrs Mogherini not only to go there as soon as possible, but also to make a stress test, as in the case of the Syrian negotiations. This is the reality with a new government in Israel which we do not yet know what it is going to do, but which has also made a number of comments that have not been optimistic. Everyone here has, I think, rightly made comments on this, but in the end it is always about the facts and to see what is happening in practice. So we in the Council have said: go there as quickly as possible and talk to Abbas from the Palestinian side as soon as possible. There too there is a major problem of a divided negotiating partner. Make that stress test. This should not be done in the old-fashioned way, but by offering something about the degree of cooperation. This can be achieved through the conclusions that we drew some time ago and which have to do with carrots and sticks. It states that Europe is also there to create solutions. I think this is a strategically important point for the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u2	First of all, I think it is very good that the Minister recognizes that, with today's knowledge and the way in which the conflict has developed, he would now have assessed the motion of almost a year ago differently from his predecessor. However, my question concerns in particular the subsequent route. I am convinced that it could be a very good line within Europe, but we want to know, of course, whether different positions have already been involved in the past and are still active at the moment. That's what the minister himself said. France, for example, has taken a special position. Does the Minister believe that the mission to Mrs Mogherini is an inclusive mission, in which all the countries engaged in initiatives operate in the direction of the High Commissioner because it increases the effectiveness, or is there two parallel processes?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u3	That's a very good question. Mr Knops has no naive minister in front of him. So I will not say now that the European Union is always united on all these points, because I cannot prove that. During the period I am Minister of Foreign Affairs, I do notice a growing consensus and frustration as a result of the Gaza war and the lack of progress. Much more than before, they not only want to be the paymaster, but also play a political role. I believe that a realistic assessment has been made which shows that Europe cannot do it alone. That was rightly noted. The United States is one of them. I think that the United States Secretary of State, whom I spoke to two weeks ago, is very interested in the European role, but also wants to take it up. I have just said that, of course, I see the complexity of all conflicts at the moment. I also see that the Iran part is at the forefront of this. That's a matter of choices. It does not mean that people react passively to the other areas. I believe that pressure is certainly being exerted on Israel and the Palestinians, for example on settlement policy. However, it is essential that the countries of Europe stay together. There is one example from the recent past where that has not happened. I am thinking of the UN Security Council resolution following initiatives by the Palestinian Authority, where Luxembourg and France took a different position than the United Kingdom. Yesterday, in the important debate, I noted that I do not see such a difference at the moment, and that the United Nations and the role of a resolution are also seen as productive. That must be a resolution that does not lead to further division. It must be a consensus resolution. There, too, I see interesting developments. Once again, I am long past naivety on this subject. In view of the other geopolitical changes, I do see the urgency for the two reasons I mentioned: the greater role of Europe and the growing consensus to send Mrs Mogherini to the region on behalf of the whole of Europe. I would also like to draw your attention to the questions that have been raised about the European role. Mrs Mogherini travelled to the area with Mr Gentilini, who was appointed European Special Representative, with the intention of staying there. Of course, it's not about one visit. I believe that this is also essential and that this includes the commitment of the region. I think this is important. Anyone who knows the location and influence of the problem is aware that it is really important for the region to be involved. The insecurity has already been mentioned by a number of MPs and is also experienced by Israel, given the extremism in the region. The geopolitical game with Hamas has also been mentioned. This requires active politics. In that sense, it's really different than it was a few years ago. The old instruments should therefore not be used in the same way. I am thinking, for example, of the closer relations between Egypt and Israel and the much more difficult relationship between the Palestinians and Hamas in the Gaza Strip and Egypt. That changes the whole game, and that is why I think it is important to say, without naivety, that this minister stands for an activist policy with two elements. The first is a bilateral element. I think this is also about the fact that we have good relations with both partners and that both are very much appreciated by them. I will come back to these fora later, but both sides want us to continue doing so, precisely because it creates opportunities to engage in this discussion in a variety of ways. I take it from the wishes of the parties themselves when it comes to whether something like this makes sense or not. In addition to the bilateral rail system, the European rail system is regarded as the most important point of approach to try, without naivety, but with a great sense of urgency, once again not to fall into hopelessness or cynicism, but to try with Einstein to move forward in a real way. Nothing is excluded here, carrots nor sticks; I refer to the European conclusions on this. But now it's all about achieving effects. So I am not prepared to make premature statements about this now. It is good that we are speaking now, but it is not up to me to anticipate the facts now. This is the path: nothing in- or exclude, gaining confidence, a new geopolitical situation and putting everything together to ensure that history does not repeat itself every time. I said the above in connection with the geopolitical situation. A number of questions have been asked about the statements made by the members of the new Israeli Government. Like I said, it's developing. We took note of the electoral rhetoric of a number of candidates at the time. I have replied to parliamentary questions that it is essential for us that the two-state solution should prevail and that the parties should respect human rights. The Israeli elections led to a government coalition with the smallest possible majority in the Knesset. This means that there is little room for manoeuvre in itself. We are looking at how this is developing, but I think it is important not to anticipate this at the moment, because I see that the combination of pressure and dialogue that we are now showing as Europe towards all parties is the only way forward. I have also referred to the initiatives that we really need to take to ensure that the unity of the Palestinians is strengthened. It's a big problem that there isn't one. Soon I will say something about how we can speed up aid to Gaza, because that build-up is far too slow. That's a tragedy for the people there. I really think it's a situation that's not sustainable. In addition to the policy I now have to position the Netherlands very actively in the international framework, both bilaterally and multilaterally, I also think it is important that there are two messages. Apart from who is the stronger party or the weaker party, both have to make their house in order. I've been in negotiations myself for years. I can tell you tomorrow, why don't you sit down at the table? But if that happens tomorrow, you can figure out that it will probably not lead to results. Both parties will therefore have to reflect. Hence the stress test: where are you in these negotiations? Are you prepared to take this opportunity again, together with the partners I mentioned earlier, and leave the common interest at the forefront? I think there are a number of possibilities for this. They also have to do with the limited possibilities we have. There are Swiss and other initiatives, and Mr De Roon has talked about this, so that at least what we are seeing is not continuing on the Palestinian side, because the division there does not help to achieve reconciliation. I think this is essential. When a party that feels weaker starts to bake among themselves, you have a huge problem, both internationally and in relation to your negotiating partner. That is why the Dutch Government is committed to this. I'll get back to you on that. My policy is therefore mainly to preserve the two-state solution. A lot of people have become skeptical about that. I am not, although history has so far wronged me. It is conflict management, the reduction of risks in Gaza and, at the same time, the stress test and a more active role of the United Nations with the involvement of regional partners in the launch of a possible peace process, based on the Arab Peace Initiative. That is also the discussion that will take place in the UN Security Council on the parameters. The devil is always in the details. Parties must agree on this. I think it is important that these parameters are set by the international community. In this respect, we support the French initiative to come up with a resolution. It really has to be consensus-oriented. Ideally, this could lead to a restart of the negotiation process, but without it, the anchoring of these parameters would help to preserve that two-state solution and create a political perspective for the endgame.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u4	The Minister just said that the European Council of Ministers supports the possible French initiative for a Security Council resolution. We do not all know what the French are currently preparing, what the French would like to propose. But we do know that a possible French resolution also includes a timetable, a final moment within which these negotiations must have begun. I have understood the rest of the Minister's speech in such a way that improper pressure is not a sensible idea at the moment. Could he combine those two things with each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u5	On that last point, you are right. I never rule out pressure, but with improper pressure at the moment when there really is the need to bring parties together, you build a failure in advance. I don't think any of the parties want that right now. On a UN Security Council resolution, I said that the European partners consider it important to have such a resolution. It should set out a number of parameters and possibly also a timetable, but this must of course be based on a consensus, even after the stress test. After all, the parties must agree on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u6	We may be able to discuss this stress test later, but I would first like to comment on that possible resolution. The last time that was the case, I believe, was that in the autumn of 2014 this piece ran into disagreement within Europe. Great Britain was, in my opinion, the breakaway at the time. At the same time, the Americans were not very keen on such a resolution. Can I understand that new attempts by the French side are also explicitly viewed by the Netherlands on the basis of the principle that the Minister has just put forward as the primary principle, namely consensus?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u7	Yes, I also think that the previous attempt to reach a Security Council resolution was unwise. I think it was known that this attempt would not lead to results. At a time like this, you're gonna get in real trouble. There has been talk of international law and cooperation. I think everyone wants to prevent a right of veto or the consensus being undermined. That is why I think it is right that there should be a bridge in the European Union, after the talks with the parties, of course, with a view to achieving something that could lead to consensus in the United Nations. Otherwise, we will continue to repeat history.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u8	It is, of course, a good idea to reach consensus within the United Nations. The Minister spoke of a number of parameters. I would like to know exactly what the Minister thinks they mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u9	I am not going to go into that precisely, because it is a disadvantage for peace talks if the Dutch Government decides again what the parameters are. I would like to make it clear that they are at least dealing with a number of points which have already been laid down and which, for example, have to do with the 1967 borders. If you refer specifically to that, I can reassure you. It remains the position of the Dutch government that settlements are illegal and that the 1967 borders are starting point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u10	With all due respect and respect, the example given by the Minister is, in my view, a definite fact. It should therefore already be a defined parameter. I can see why the Dutch Government cannot give substance to this in the House of Representatives, but I would like to stress to the Minister that there must be concrete parameters shared by everyone. They must continue to be determined in such a way that they can never be discussed again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u11	I agree. That is also at the heart of the argument why we need a UN Security Council resolution. Of course, there are parameters already. Let us be honest: everyone knows the contours of a possible agreement, but the devil is always in the details. That is not acceptable to anyone who no longer wants to do so. It is therefore also important to reach such a consensus resolution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u12	Thank you very much, Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u13	A very short question, Mr President! When can we expect that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u14	If I knew that, I might be able to win the Nobel Prize. Let there be no misunderstanding: I really share the concerns of everyone here in the House of Representatives and I understand the call for urgency, even as a ruler who himself has been closely involved in this process in the past. I realize that the Netherlands should not reduce its role, but should not increase it. I cannot give an answer to this question. It is clear that the European Union and the Netherlands have said: the status quo is not stable and unsustainable, and this means that urgent action is needed. In all peace processes, when you say that it may take a lot of time, history repeats itself. As annoying as I am, if I were to say 'it must be done within three weeks', I could give you a note saying that this is not going to happen because of the elements I have just outlined.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u15	The minister says he'd be making a very activist policy. I am very curious to hear what that activism means.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u16	That's what I just told you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u17	Then I can only conclude that the activism is that the Minister is striving for European consensus. I can only encourage him to do so, because he is right to do so. But that is not, of course, the activism that can be expected in this situation. Let me ask a more concrete question about something that is not necessarily activist, but perhaps fits in with what the Netherlands should do. We have the forums. These have been referred to by your predecessor as an intensification of relations. Does the Minister consider that the progress of these fora should depend on the answer to the question of whether both sides, Israel and Palestine, respect international law and human rights and whether they are prepared to act constructively in the negotiations? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u18	First of all, I would like to say that my activism is the pursuit of consensus within the European Union. When I hear that, I wonder what exactly I've been saying in the last ten minutes. I am also disappointed by a European like you, because you say every time on behalf of D66: let us strengthen European security policy. I'm telling you, I'm busy filling that out. I even indicated that I might have ruled otherwise on a motion. And then you say: it's nothing; it's building consensus. I think that's really wrong, but I'll leave that reasoning line to you. I would like to talk to you about the forums, but they are actually a little further up in my speech; perhaps I can come back to that a little later. I can tell you already that it is very important to me what the parties themselves think. When I talk to the Palestinians and the Israelis about building trust and, right now, strengthening relations through intensification, I notice that both parties are very enthusiastic about this. That is why I find it difficult to say, on behalf of the Dutch Government, that we are not going to do that for a moment; we are going to commit this to all kinds of conditionality.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u19	This is a bit in between a remark and a real answer. You say that you will take up this point again later, but let me ask you a follow-up question. It is not so much a question of whether both parties are waiting for this. They are, of course, waiting for this, because it is a great opportunity for both Israel and Palestine. At the same time, I also see that settlements are constantly being built, that violence is spreading on both sides and that there is only limited willingness to negotiate. And that raises the question of whether you think that relations should be strengthened bilaterally. Yes or no? That is the question before us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u20	It's a like-dan question. We're working on a peace initiative. At the moment, I think that if Mr Sjoerdsma wants to know that answer, we must continue the second edition of the fora, precisely because there is no progress in the peace negotiations. Political consultations are clearly part of the forums. Both sides would like these forums to continue. Through these forums, the Netherlands can contribute to improving the climate between both parties. We have therefore also set up a number of reconciliation projects. We also have a reasonable relationship with both parties. That relationship isn't uncritical. I made that clear to the Chamber. That includes settlement policy. This moment offers a possibility of critical messages. However, I am not going to say at a time when both parties consider this important, because of a treatise with Mr Sjoerdsma, with all due respect, now: let us not continue. I have the same criticism of the lack of progress and of the settlements. I do not believe, however, that it is a good thing to stop fora, in which huge contacts are being established, with the UNG in the Palestinian territories and with some of the economic players. I think, frankly, that the opposite is true.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u21	I have another supplementary question on this process, in the run-up to the possible UN resolution from France. The minister just talked about the carrot-and-stick when it comes to Israel. I assume that, in line with what the Minister said afterwards, the stick is not appropriate at the moment because you are trying to get the parties to the table. But how does the Minister intend to restore unity within the Palestinian Authority, where the Palestinian Authority does not even have access to Gaza? After all, if you want to get both parties to sit down, there must be two and not three parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u22	I merely reiterated the conclusions of the European Council. I spoke about a package of possible measures. It is certainly not just about sticks and it is certainly not just about Israel. It is part of the evaluation that is being carried out. This is just for the clarity of the interpretation. Indeed, I do not think it is appropriate to give substance to this strategy and to come to conclusions at a time when the High Representative is actively doing her work in the Middle East. The second point raised by Mr Voordewind is a very important one. How can we help and ensure that it is possible to negotiate with a unitary government at least again? That's not easy. The Chamber knows that there is also a specific problem with regard to Hamas. It is important to exert both pressure and dialogue in order to achieve reconciliation. That also applies to the Palestinian side. However, that is essential. I would like to come back to a few specific questions relating to payments, risks and tunnels. These are very critical issues which are also a risk at the moment. I have also just spoken about my fear of further radicalisation. We give priority to this, both in terms of funding and in terms of support through the United Nations. There are also some initiatives from individual countries, such as Switzerland. At that time, the predecessor of the current UN Special Representative has taken an active role in this. That's the point. Mr Voordewind is right; that is an essential point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u23	Apart from the whole process and regardless of how it goes on, I am genuinely curious about the efforts of the Netherlands to bring the parties back together, as well as what influence, for example, Arab countries could have on this. Egypt is now a bit more difficult when it comes to Hamas and Fatah, but it could still be an opportunity to get both parties back together. So I would like to know what the Dutch are doing to bring these parties back together, when it comes to the EU and those countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u24	There are, of course, a number of possibilities to do that. The question is, what room do I get from the Chamber for that? I also understand that we have a policy which, rightly, is based on the fact that Hamas is a terrorist organisation and that a number of conditions must be met before they can be involved in the peace process. Nevertheless, as Mr De Roon has pointed out, there is in many ways informal contact via third parties. I think that's essential. The Dutch Government will promote this so that further reconciliation can be achieved. I do not think that the signs are positive, both on the part of the Palestinian Authority and on the part of Hamas. I think that's risky. We will try to promote this in many ways, in front of or behind the scenes, both at European level and at national and international level.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u25	I should like to comment on Mr Sjoerdsma's first question and the Minister's reply to it. In my opinion, it became a rather wondrous discussion. I can follow the Minister when he says that he is striving for consensus at European level to do something and that he is not going in his own direction. I have the impression, however, that the Minister is rather wolly. Which European carrots and sticks, preferably by consensus, are then envisaged? If we cannot talk about this, then we are not really talking about it. That would be a shame, wouldn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u26	That would indeed be a pity, but that is not the intention. With all due respect, it's been discussed regularly before you returned to the Chamber. We have asked Mrs Mogherini to come up with a strategy for this. It really is a European responsibility now. She's working on it. It is on its way now and will come back with conclusions that are being discussed at European level. That's the way it is, whether we like it or not. I think it is important that we realise what the measure of the whole is. We have looked at the fact that there have been little results in the past. I think we should give Europe a chance. It is not a question of thinking: never mind, in Europe I have nothing to do with it anymore. There's a chance now. Then we will also have to use other means than the appropriate resources that have been used for years. We really need to look at a new opportunity to bring parties together, so I am not going to speculate about it right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u27	Well, that's a little disappointing, isn't it? It is not my intention for the Minister to say: The Netherlands necessarily wants that, that or that approach, and if it does not, then there is no European consensus. I get that. Now he's saying he's just gonna wait and see Mrs Mogherini come up with something. The Minister has a stake in that, doesn't he? If he's talking to Mrs. Mogherini, does he have a picture of what he'd want? That's what we'd like to talk to him about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u28	Sure, you have every right to do that. I have just said that parties must be put back into dialogue and under pressure to accept the two-state solution and that there must be reconciliation between the Palestinian parties. You can't force that, neither the first nor the second. I also said that we should involve the Arab countries. That's a choice that certainly wasn't made by everyone. This means that we must take a number of initiatives before the Americans can be involved at the end of next month. Anyway, I would like to give some examples of what needs to be done now if we are to create an initiative that actually has consequences. I can't give you the assurance that this will work. I see this as the best way to go right now. If you know another way, I'm very open to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u29	I heard that last call. We can't do much from the Netherlands. It is logical that we should look at what is happening at European level. If, at European level, we can promote peace, the political solution, then we must certainly do so. However, what the Netherlands can do on its own should not be neglected. We should not wait for what is coming from Europe, because that may take a very long time. To date, this has not helped the process. I'd like to tell the Minister the following. He has very clear political objectives in this conflict. There are Dutch instruments. I refer to the cooperation fora, which the Minister himself always praises. Both sides want that, let us continue. I would also like to mention the issue of labelling. In this respect, the Netherlands can do more in its own country by ensuring better enforcement. I would also like to mention the issue of recognition. These are three areas in which the Netherlands can act independently, sovereignly. Given the situation in recent years, is it not time for the Netherlands to make use of the instruments available to it on its own? Or does the Minister believe that progress is being made at European level so that we do not have to act independently?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u30	That's a dichotomy that's not mine. It is not the case that we are waiting for Europe or have no commitment to do so. I have just put that forward. Let me mention a number of elements. Maybe we should take them by the horns. Firstly, I would like to mention the issue of labelling. It is well known that we have co-signed a letter to the High Representative. Not everyone is equally happy about this, but it is important to do so and it is important that this is done within a European framework. Then you're effective. This has also been done because the public and the business community have an interest in clarifying the origin of the products they buy. The cabinet is indeed seeking a European approach. Moreover, there is also a competence of importance. It needs to be developed nationally. Given the existence of a common market, it is important that Member States implement the policies in the same way. That is why I signed a letter with 12 other countries highlighting the importance of the European approach. That was also discussed with the High Representative, who will answer that. You can't say this isn't an important contribution. I think this is essential. Mr Van Bommel all wants national measures, because he thinks they are effective. I have just said that we have taken decisions on the standing policy of discouragement. I'm not gonna change that. I think this is an important road and I will continue it. In that sense, we disagree on that point. I thought I had been very clear on the issue of recognition. I note, moreover, that there are wrong views about this in this Parliament. It is not at all the case that the Dutch position is different from that in France, the European Parliament or Germany. This government has said that it is using recognition at a strategic moment. That does not mean that one of the parties has a right of veto in negotiations. This position is taken up by a large majority of European countries and parliaments. I've joined in on that. That is the second point. I think that's essential. I really think that this will advance the matter in the way I have just indicated. I also said that fora are important tools to build confidence and ensure critical notes can be cracked. I have been asked here in the Chamber to set up a number of reconciliation projects. The Netherlands is one of the few countries that still does. This is greatly appreciated by both parties. That is why I do not intend to give up an important national instrument if it can contribute to a positive development in the region.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u31	The Minister completely ignores my point. I started my interruption by asking the Minister for an assessment. Does the Minister consider that progress is being made on the important political goals set by the Netherlands in relation to this conflict? Is the peace getting closer? Is the two-state solution getting closer? The Minister has not given the answer. I can tell him that answer: no, no progress is being made. The question is whether the Netherlands should not make use of the instruments at its disposal. I mentioned those instruments. The Minister must not leave the European path, but we must also do our own work. I call on the Minister, also for his own credibility, to use the instruments available to the Netherlands if the European pathway has no effect. I mentioned them. If the minister doesn't use them, he can sit back and say he's waiting for Europe to solve it. With regard to the one small example of the labels: in the Netherlands, the shops are full of products labeled'made in Israel', while the Minister and I know that this is a lie and that this is not true. We are therefore leaving a situation in which the Dutch consumer is being deceived. That's not right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u32	That is what we disagree on. Mr Van Bommel draws false conclusions. The first one is that I would hang back. The second is that we do nothing at national level. The third is that there is no policy of discouragement on the point he has just raised. We have established that. That is how the Dutch Government sees it now. I'm not going to expand or limit that now. I just said that I want the European route to be given a chance. We can differ politically on that. Then it is always easy to say: the government is hiding behind Europe. I don't think that's very productive. I have just indicated how we can move forward on a method which seems much more reasonable to me than Mr Van Bommel's proposals. I'm afraid we just don't agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u33	Does the Minister understand that labelling or labelling of products can lead to boycotts? How does he reconcile that with a so-called constructive attitude towards the State of Israel, which this government claims to have?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u34	I do not agree with that either. So you see: we have different positions in it. Public and business have an interest in clarity about the origin of products they buy. We are striving for a European approach to this. I also co-signed a letter on this in the direction of the High Representative. I believe that this has nothing to do with a boycott, but with the fact that the settlements are illegal and that on that basis we want to provide clarity to business and consumers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u35	There is no constructive attitude of this cabinet towards Israel at all. This cabinet continues to support a Palestinian entity co-supported by a terrorist organisation, by Hamas, this cabinet still provides subsidies to organisations that are operating anti-Israel propaganda, and this cabinet is committed, also in a European context, to label products that are simply from Israel.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u36	That's not right. I just said what our policy is. I am not going to strengthen or relax the policy of discouragement at national level. The Dutch government has for years discouraged economic relations with companies in Israeli occupation, in occupied Palestinian territory. An adjustment of that policy is not at issue at the moment. I refer, moreover, to the response of 96 parliamentary questions on the evaluation of this policy. I've determined my position in that. It is important that that clarity is there. There is no doubt that the Dutch government does not approve of the settlements. Mr Van Klaveren may not do that. We think it's illegal. This also means giving clarity to consumers and producers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u37	I would still like to support Mr Van Bommel, because I had the impression that the Minister was ignoring an important part of his question. That part was concerned: if the Minister has looked at the past two years, or if we have taken the last 22 months, then perhaps that is a better period. I think the Minister can only accept that the situation has deteriorated dramatically.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u38	That was my first point during the debate today. We have said what horrors we have seen in recent times, that there is no two-state solution, that there is no reconciliation, that there is no security for the citizens, and that we, and especially the people of Israel and the Palestinian territories, have waged a Gaza war that we must not dwell on. It is precisely for this reason that we are obliged to do everything in our power to get beyond the point at which we are now. Some of the instruments proposed by Mr Sjoerdsma are not at the service of this. That is another position I understand, but it is wrong to conclude that we would think it is progressing. I have just indicated that the completely new geopolitical situation, which requires newer instruments to go beyond the instruments I hear very often from Mr Sjoerdsma. I am not ruling out anything. I referred to the conclusions of the European Council. As a European, Mr Sjoerdsma should also know that we are now working on a political strategy which is slightly larger than the Netherlands and which does assume our responsibilities. Then we hope that results will be obtained. That is the yardstick for me, so I can look Mr Sjoerdsma in the eye because the policy is being implemented as it is necessary to arrive at a two-state solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u39	The Minister says he's doing everything he can. From a European point of view, I fully support his line. That won't surprise him. However, that does not prevent Mr Van Bommel from referring to the fact that there are national things we can do. The Minister says that the situation has deteriorated, but we are going to intensify relations, we are going to give a reward for bad behavior. With regard to labelling, the Minister also says: we are going to solve this European problem. I'm really wondering why. The Ministry of Economic Affairs had already produced a directive at the time. The shopkeepers want to know what's going on. It is a national competence to determine how such labelling should be done. Why does the Minister put this flight forward in Brussels? Why doesn't he just take care of it himself? He can take care of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u40	I have previously indicated that, as we know, bilaterally, the Dutch government has for years discouraged the economic relations of the Dutch business community with companies in the Israeli settlements. It shall apply unchanged. This means that Dutch companies knocking on the door of the government are informed about this policy. In addition, the Dutch government does not provide services to Dutch companies with activities they carry out in or for the benefit of Israeli settlements in occupied Palestinian territory. Mr Sjoerdsma may think that this is not an important measure, but a lot of people think otherwise. The Dutch government actively informs companies in cases where it is itself involved. This brings me to the bilateral cooperation forum with Israel. The policy of discouragement will be fully applied in the next editions of these fora. For example, only Israeli companies located within Israel's 1967 borders, whose activities within the framework of the Cooperation Forum will also be carried out within these borders. This indicates that Mr Sjoerdsma is wrong when he says that there is no bilateral policy. Secondly, on behalf of the Dutch Government, I have also endeavoured to move forward in the light of European competences and the European internal market, as well as to discuss settlement policy. That's my point of view. I see that Mr Sjoerdsma wants something different, but I think that is less effective.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u41	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u42	This was the answer to the questions on labelling. I come to a number of other questions, including the settlements. I have taken note of Mr Netanyahu's statements in, as I said earlier, campaign time on further expansion of the settlements in Jerusalem. Of course, I'm gonna distance myself from that. The Israeli settlements in occupied Palestinian territory are illegal and constitute an obstacle to achieving the two-state solution. There is no doubt that we also expect a new government to support and actively strive for the two-state solution. The Cabinet will also proclaim that. I also support the Council conclusions that we have adopted on this issue. I think it is important that this is now discussed both bilaterally and in the context of Mrs Mogherini's visit. We are also opposed to the partial agreements which may have to do with the so-called legalization of outposts. We also condemned, contrary to what was said, last week's decision to allow the actual construction of 900 homes in the illegal settlement Ramat Shlomo in East Jerusalem. Once again, I think it is important right now to raise this issue, in order to make that clear to the new Israeli government. This will certainly be part of the bilateral talks with the Israeli Government, as is done with the Palestinian Authority in other respects. I also intend to give a bilateral message to the Middle East in order to indicate its importance and urgency.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u43	I have one question about this. The Minister is right to say that the Israeli Prime Minister must take back the statement that he no longer has a fiduciary in the two-state solution and that he is no longer committed to doing so. The Prime Minister would have done the same today. We still have to see what that's worth. The issue of the outposts mentioned by the Minister is still a somewhat more serious one, as this point is black-and-white in the Israeli coalition agreement. Does the Minister agree with me that the European Union should press for the withdrawal of the comment in the coalition agreement on these outposts as much as it insists on the reversal of the ruling on the two-state solution?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u44	The answer to that is, of course, yes. Our ambassador in Tel Aviv has expressed concerns on behalf of the cabinet about recent decisions. These are, by the way, unconfirmed reports about the authorization of outposts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u45	They may be unconfirmed, but it's part of the coalition agreement. If Mrs Mogherini's conversation today in Jerusalem does not give any commitment in this area, then what do we do? We are then dealing with a concrete policy measure, which is in black and white, which is contrary to everything we are asking for and the approach to the two-state solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u46	Yeah, I agree. If it were, it wouldn't be a good positioning. I'll wait and see what the facts are. I await the report that is being made on this matter. We do not disagree on the importance of raising this issue at the heart of the matter, precisely because it reduces the scope for a two-state solution. That's where the essence lies. These are concerns that we do not have alone. The allies and, of course, the Palestinians also have these concerns.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u47	The construction of illegal settlements is, of course, sad. It is good that the cabinet takes a position on this. On a website, I have seen an opinion paper which states that two amendments have been adopted simultaneously in both the House of Representatives and in the Senate of the United States, thus using the TTIP Treaty as a means of preventing economic sanctions. Can the Minister confirm or disprove this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u48	This is really the first time I've heard of it. I can only say that, of course, the Dutch Government does not agree with a TTIP treaty in which in this case the United States would decide what we do or do not do in relation to other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u49	I'm glad to hear that. In any case, I will forward the content of the document plus the amendments I have seen to the Minister and his support, so that he can come back to that with a later assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u50	I appreciate that very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u51	At the risk of going through the entire Israeli coalition agreement, which, in my opinion, has been at the centre of some 18 points and a whole piece of text which has been working for months, I agree with the Minister that the annexation of possible outposts raises the main questions. My question is this. Does the Minister agree with me that the government agreement that this new coalition has entered into with each other also states that peace talks can be resumed? Does he know that this was also in the previous coalition agreement in which, as he knows, other parties were involved? This in itself is hopeful. Can the Minister comment on the statements made today by Netanyahu in the discussion with Mrs Mogherini, since he and we all thought Mrs Mogherini's visit was so important?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u52	I thank Mr Ten Broeke for both questions. It points out that you can indeed read a coalition agreement in all kinds of ways. Mr Ten Broeke is right in saying that there are clear texts on the need for a peace settlement. That's a good thing. The Dutch Government appreciates this and considers it important. What was discussed yesterday in the Foreign Affairs Council of Europe, including on the Dutch initiative, is that it is nicely said, but that it should focus on the two-state solution. I understand that this has also been confirmed today by the Foreign Minister and Prime Minister of Israel, Mr Netanyahu. I think that's a good thing. That's why I'm saying I don't want to get ahead. The moment we try to get parties together on the basis of what is in the coalition agreement, it is good that this element has been reconfirmed today. I appreciate that. This deserves a basis, especially after we have heard quite different sounds during election campaigns and discussions. I think it is important that this is done today. I would like to agree with Mr Ten Broeke.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u53	Fine, then perhaps we can see if the Minister agrees with me on the following point. As he points out, there was indeed a long talk of various posts during the cabinet formation in Israel; however, one post appears to be double occupied, that of Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs. It's not exactly a model I would recommend. I do not know if the Minister feels otherwise, of course. It would be a revelation in itself to say that here. But my question is this. He is important in the Israeli context. This is not without precedent either. It is particularly important because it sees the opportunities for negotiation and for a peace process, including in the regional context and in particular with Iran, as the Minister himself pointed out. We must note that it is therefore of the utmost importance that the foreign policy and the leadership of the security cabinet of Israel be in one hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u54	You know, these are risky questions, certainly the first but to some extent also the second, when it comes to a Dutch Minister for Foreign Affairs who makes comments about the precise distribution of posts in a cabinet of another country. I think it is important that it is mentioned today that the Israeli Foreign Minister opts for a two-state solution. Then it is also essential that this then leads to serious negotiations and to serious steps to enable that solution. I can't anticipate that. I hope that's true. This confirmation today is important. We do know that the current government is based on a very narrow majority. There might be other options in the future, but I am not going to speculate about that now, with all due respect. I believe that we agree on the issue of settlements at least in the analysis. We may not agree on the time when there should then be any negative reactions from Europe, which go in the direction of, for example, a boycott. But that does not mean, once again, that there is no thought in the European Union about concrete ways in which we can draw the dividing line between Israel and the Palestinian territories more clearly on the basis of the 1967 borders. There are elements for that. The Association Agreement has been mentioned. The implementation of that agreement could be limited to the 1967 limits. There are many possibilities for doing so in the future, but I do not want to anticipate that. I have just said that these Council conclusions are important. There's no exception to that. However, the Chamber should give me a chance. That has nothing to do with hiding. It is really important that we now have an active European policy. I don't want to burden them by speaking in our turn. In addition, the Dutch Government also has a bilateral responsibility on a number of points, which I have just mentioned. I come to a number of questions about the recognition of the Palestinian State. Actually, I've already said something about that. I believe that the Dutch Government has fallen into the mainstream of European politics in this respect by saying that this recognition comes at a strategic moment. Then the Chamber asks: when is this strategic moment? That can go faster or slower, but as far as I am concerned, as soon as possible. This would mean that the negotiations would also be progressing. The position taken by the European countries and the European Parliament is that you must do this right now... At least it is a bilateral responsibility. I very much agree with the Members of Parliament in the end. That is not Europe's decision, it is ours. But I think it is important to do so as much as possible in the event of an alert, without hanging us from it. I say this directly, with great respect for the people who say: that is a sovereignty in the end. There may be a moment when this happens. That will undoubtedly be discussed. So this is not the time. I have already indicated in previous debates that there are a number of legal elements to this. The strategic commitment of recognition together with other EU Member States is in line with the position of France, Italy and the United Kingdom and provides the opportunity to strengthen the debate on recognition by others in the direction desired by the Netherlands. I think that's important. I do not want to go into the Montevideo criteria in detail now, because I understand from the debate that a large number of Members of Parliament know about this. Then we might end up in a repeat of moves. What does the Netherlands think of Palestinian accession to the ICC? As the Chamber knows, Palestine has had observer status within the UN since November 2012. That is the wording that has been chosen. This allowed the Palestinians to become parties to the Treaty of Rome. This accession shall take effect on 1 April 2015. As a host country and party to the treaty, the Netherlands considers the further process primarily as a matter for the Criminal Court. The cabinet considers it important that parties feel bound by international law. As a host country and treaty party of the independent ICC, I now consider the further process to be part of the ICC. That is also what I have discussed with the Palestinians. The Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Al-Mali, also expressed his appreciation of the Netherlands against me. I welcome the fact that parties consider themselves bound by international law. The Netherlands is committed to the universal functioning of the Rome Statute. I think that's important. The human rights treaties help to further strengthen the Palestinian legal order and provide a framework for internal accountability. That fits in with my call to put the whole thing in order. The Palestinian Authority actively involved the independent Palestinian Human Rights Commission, ICHR, and NGOs in the implementation of the conventions and related reporting obligations. The United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights' field office coordinates the assistance of the Palestinian Authority in this regard. As you know, the Netherlands also supports these organisations. That is what I want to say and what I have exchanged with the Foreign Minister of the Palestinian Authority.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u55	Thank you for the Minister's explanation. I would almost say that this sounds like a welcome and strengthening of the international legal order. That's good. It is also good to hear that the Netherlands is already contributing through other organisations to assist the Palestinians in the implementation and reporting of the treaties of the bodies of which they have become members. Of course, new is their accession to the International Criminal Court on 1 April. Of course, this accession also involves certain issues of implementation. In the first term, I also asked the question, in fact, whether the Minister would like to discuss with his Palestinian counterpart whether there is a need for specific knowledge that the Netherlands has in the implementation and implementation of that treaty. We are proud of the position we have with regard to the International Criminal Court. We have a lot of expertise in this area and we also offer that expertise to other countries. Would the Minister also like to discuss this with his Palestinian counterpart?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u56	It is important that the Palestinian Authority now considers itself bound by international law. That's what I just said, even as a host country of the ICC. A lot of people have asked for that, too. It is important that the Palestinian Human Rights Commission and the NGOs, which are actually being asked by the Palestinian Authority to assist in this, should now also be supported by the Netherlands, at least in part. The same applies to the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights' field office. It is currently coordinating assistance in this area. Of course, we are involved in this. Should the Palestinian Authority come forward with certain requests to the Netherlands as a host country, we will, of course, look into them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u57	Such a "criminal court" for Palestinians who need it seems to me to be a good interpretation of the cooperation fora. That is what we need to do, especially when we need to do so. My question is aimed at other forms of alleviating the needs of Palestinians, in particular the Gazans. I don't know if the minister's still due?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u58	Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u59	Okay, then maybe I'm early on with my question, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u60	He'll come back to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u61	Okay, so we're gonna talk about the scanners and stuff.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u62	Sure, sure. I said something about getting your own house in order. We have now discussed the Israeli side of the matter in particular. I will come in a moment to talk more extensively about the Palestinian side of the matter. The split between Gaza and the West Bank and the split administration rightly raise the question of the legitimacy of the current Palestinian leadership. That is why, in my recent conversation with Minister Al Malki, I insisted that at least the unitary government should return to Gaza, take responsibility for administration and coordinate reconstruction. This is now essential to make progress. I'll come back to that in a minute. The Palestinian Authority has already made good progress in building public institutions. In response to a number of questions from the PVV Group, I also say that the IMF, the World Bank and the UN already in 2011 considered that the institutions of the Palestinian Authority were sufficient for a functioning state. That was, of course, also the intention of the support given from the Netherlands: besides the humanitarian side there is also something in preparation for state-building, which can of course only be taken up as part of negotiations. You can also see that it is essential for the Palestinian Authority to continue to manage services to its own citizens and to be accountable in a transparent manner. This will also enhance the credibility and legitimacy of the Palestinian Authority. These topics will address the Netherlands during the next AHLC on 27 May. The House rightly urged attention to be paid to the poignant situation in Gaza. I share that concern. The situation is of great concern to me. The people are trapped between the administration of Hamas, the powerlessness of the Palestinian Authority, the policy of Egypt and the restrictions imposed by Israel. It is no easy matter to change this. So we must now do everything we can to rule out a new round of conflicts this year. That is why we must be active in Gaza. I will be on the European and national sides in a moment. I have asked the Special Representative Gentilini to come forward with concrete proposals for this, which will be reported to us, and I will report them to the next RBZ because the current conditions in Gaza are the ideal breeding ground for more injustice and further radicalisation. There are few economic opportunities and high unemployment. Moreover, their own leaders are absent. These are all factors that make young people vulnerable to radicalisation. There is even the risk that ISIS will be able to raise its head there at the moment. That is why the reconstruction of Gaza and successful reconciliation are so important. At the same time, Hamas seems to gain some confidence. It is trying to strengthen its own position, including through new taxation. The military branch is working on re-arming and the restoration of tunnels. That seems to me to be a bad thing. Unfortunately, reconstruction is less successful than hoped. There are several reasons for the delay, but the absence of the Palestinian Authority's return to Gaza is perhaps now the most important factor, alongside the others I have just mentioned. That worries me, because without the PA's return to Gaza, reconstruction will not come off the ground and the billions promised in Cairo will not reach the Gazan people. An important reason for the stagnation is the lack of the Palestinian Authority's return to border crossings, as that is an important condition.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. There is now a real need for more cooperation from the Palestinian side. We have also raised this issue and discussed it with Minister Al-Maliki. For the cabinet, it is important that all officials are screened for safety and quality in the event of integration. As far as I am concerned, the current situation in which civil servants sit at home but get paid, including with the support of the European Union, while others work without a salary, cannot go on like this. The cabinet is now thinking with its partners in the European Union about how the European Union can contribute to a sustainable solution. Although reconstruction is taking place too slowly, there are also some bright spots. Temporary UN monitoring and verification mechanisms for the safe import of building materials are on steam. Almost 80,000 people have been able to buy building materials to restore their homes. In addition, the first larger projects are now coming into the implementation phase. That's not enough, but it's gonna happen. The lack of money for the implementation of projects is now a stumbling block. In addition to reconstruction, economic development is essential. For that, the borders will have to be further open. In recent years, the EU and the Netherlands have consistently called for the opening of Gaza's borders, taking into account security concerns. That is the key point of the meeting at the end of the week, because Gaza is high on the agenda. Since September Israel has been allowing trade from Gaza to the West Bank. In particular, these are agricultural products produced by farmers often supported by the Netherlands. Furthermore, furniture and fish are exported, also further in the region. For the first time since 2007, some Gazan agricultural products can be sold back on the market in Israel. It's about time. This is really due to the diplomatic efforts of the Netherlands. Sometimes you can be big in little things. With this, the Netherlands has not yet confirmed peace, but I think these are important elements. They show that trade is possible, even in this situation. Together with partners such as the quartet office and the United States, we therefore continue to work for further opening of borders. As far as I am concerned, this is the border crossing Kerem Shalom. The emphasis should be on that. Hopefully it'll be a way to get to the lake. However, it remains vulnerable. We also see actions of spoilers, such as rockets or the discovery of tunnels. That can also be put right, because then we will actually see an armament of Hamas when it is not intended to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u63	Can the Minister explain the Israeli security interest in stopping exports from the Gaza Strip?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u64	As far as I am concerned, there is no interest in that. That is why we are calling for that to be changed and for export opportunities to be restored. As far as imports and scanners are concerned, and the risks associated with the use of building materials for tunnels, I think that is a very legitimate need. That is why the Netherlands is playing a role in this. We're all being judged positively on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u65	My question has been answered. There is no security interest for Israel, the Minister states. Is the Minister prepared to unequivocally condemn all obstacles created by Israel to hinder or even stop exports? It really seems that Israel is doing this in order to prevent the Palestinians from having any income or promoting a viable economy in Gaza. Is the Minister prepared, when this happens, to unequivocally condemn it and to make it known to the Israeli authorities?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u66	That's all we do. I have also just indicated that this is essential for us. If I may continue on the Dutch part...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u67	When was the last time that was explicit...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u68	No, Mr Van Bommel, the Minister is answering.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u69	The Dutch scanner at Kerem Shalom has been in use since November 2013 for the import and export of goods between Gaza and the European market. Mr Van Bommel, perhaps I can say to you that of course it is also about the risk of arms exports, so it is right that the goods should be scanned. It is not the case that there are no security risks, but the essence is that we believe that exports should be able to go safely to the West Bank and Europe. I have raised this on several occasions in various consultations. Since September last year, trade from Gaza to Westbank has been allowed again and now exports to Israel. That is the first time since 2007, so I would say that this is positive news. The total value of these exports is a few million. Of course, that's too little to grow the economy, but it's so much that you can say that the system has been tested and works. As far as I'm concerned, it's an oppaign to lake. After all, it is more about trade than aid to the Gaza Strip. It also points out that the Dutch commitment to the resumption of trade is having an effect. The products meet the highest quality requirements and can enter the European market. The concerns about security that have to do with the elements I have just mentioned can therefore also be addressed. The success of the Dutch approach is also reflected in Minister Al-Maliki's request to create a second scanner. We are now going to look at the possibilities of doing so and, of course, we are working very closely with the United Nations. I think that the Dutch commitment will also have an impact on other countries that are going to do so. The Kerem Shalom scanner is also crucial and perhaps even more important for the import of humanitarian goods into Gaza and for the import of materials for reconstruction, through the UN monitoring and verification mechanism. Once again, the Dutch Government urges the Israeli authorities to resume trade between Gaza and the West Bank. This also fits in with the Dutch objective of contributing to the reunification of Gaza and the Westbank, a requirement for a real two-state solution. We are also installing a second scanner at the Allenby Bridge. This will be expected next summer when the infrastructure adjustment is completed, as the installation will depend on it. It's something I've been discussing with my Jordan colleague. Progress is also being made in preparing for the placement and use of container scanners. I really think that's very important. Much more needs to be done, but this is a catalyst and stimulus that is being actively promoted from the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u70	Those are all good developments. Exports must also be encouraged from Gaza, not only to the West Bank, but also to Israel, as long as peaceful goods are involved. Scanning for arms exports must, of course, be maintained. The Minister says in a nutshell: we have also seen weapons being developed and tunnels being built in Gaza. At the same time, we are transferring EUR 12 million through the Palestinian Authority, which has no presence in Gaza itself. What is being done to get a good picture of this and to counter the arms race from Gaza? Because that goods go back and forth, is fine, but if it is seen at the same time as a kind of truce, and therefore an arms reconstruction, in Gaza, we will be back to square one.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u71	I agree; that is not the intention either. That is why this scanner is there, and that is why all this funding goes through organisations that can control it. Otherwise, the money won't be transferred.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u72	That money ends up with UNWRA. That's another big commitment to Hamas. Many people working at UNWRA are members of Hamas at the same time. How can we be sure that this money is not used for the purchase of weapons and the construction of tunnels?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u73	I thought I had already mentioned this in writing and repeatedly in debates. It's being looked at in a very specific way. That goes through partners who pay attention to that. I would also like to distance myself from the fact that UNRWA would be the same as Hamas. UNRWA is an organization of the United Nations. Where they might have gone wrong, following the Cammaert report, is another matter. I would not like to say that the United Nations in Gaza, with very difficult work and with great courage, I saw it a few years ago as an instrument of Hamas. It is precisely the intention to limit this to zero, by means of all kinds of methods that we have been talking about repeatedly, such as how these payments can be made and what the risks are.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u74	Mr Ten Broeke, on the same point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u75	I would first like to make a small correction for the Acts. I didn't say UNWRA is the same as Hamas. I have said that UNWRA employees are often also members of Hamas and are therefore intertwined with interests.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u76	I cannot, of course, know on all points of everyone involved in UNRWA whether anyone is a member of Hamas. I certainly cannot assure Mr Voordewind that. The point is, I thought this was his point, that the money didn't go wrong. I very much agree with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u77	I would almost like to say: if only we could turn it around; if Hamas were but as UNWRA, we would be a whole lot further. I want to go into the scanners. I went to Kerem Shalom three months ago. The scanner that the Netherlands put in there took a very long time before the Israeli government had given permission to do so. As a result, huge quantities of food have been exported and, as I have seen with my own eyes, furniture, for example. Building materials have also been imported, with all the risks involved. I think this is an explicit contribution from the Netherlands. The Netherlands has insisted on this and it has broken through the blockade that many are talking about. I would like the Netherlands to continue actively to press the Israeli Government, but also the Palestinian Authority, to take more responsibility for what is happening there. The export must go up, and the import must go up, because that gives air to the Gazans. This is how they deal with the things they have to deal with, not the building of tunnels.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u78	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u79	I would like to see this as a top priority of the Dutch contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u80	I can confirm that. All our efforts are aimed at bringing forward the good work that has been done now, which is widely appreciated and certainly should not be minimized, in order to prevent the people in Gaza from having a future. This must be done at the same time under strict security conditions. This is to prevent new problems, either through new radicalisation due to lack of economic perspective, or through the import of weapons or other materials that bring us into a new cycle of violence. That is also an answer to the remark that we do not really need to move towards a situation of building, bombing and rebuilding. It's an element of that, let's be honest about that, but I think the Netherlands can be proud of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u81	I also think that the Netherlands can be proud of that. There's been a lot of laughs about that scanner around here. One more has to be activated at the Allenby Bridge. I hope the Minister will be able to say something about that. My second question concerns something that struck me: Ministers of the Palestinian Authority find it difficult to speak to their own officials when they visit Gaza. They also have difficulty in getting their colleagues to speak there. Of course, the legitimacy of the PA in Gaza will never work. An idea has been launched to allow European representatives to travel physically with the Ministers of the Palestinian Authority once. In doing so, we express our desire for the PA to take responsibility for reducing Hamas' influence. What does the Minister do with that idea?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u82	I think that's a good idea. Let's see if that's a possibility. I cannot now fully assess whether security restrictions exist in the European Union. I'm worried about that myself sometimes. I myself experienced things where I thought the European Union should be there, but then there were security restrictions, sometimes from the decision-makers. I think it is an important point. This is what we need to show you. I'd like to take the suggestion with me. I say to Mr Ten Broeke that I have spoken extensively about the Allenby Bridge and the importance of the scanner. I also discussed the Dutch pledge for Gaza in relation to humanitarian projects, water, movement and access, rule of law and agriculture. Everything was paid out in 2014. We've been asked to prevent the money from getting into the wrong hands. The scanner is, of course, an element of that. There are rumors that some of the building material is being resold on the black market. These rumors are not yet confirmed. The reason would be that homeowners would not otherwise be able to provide their livelihood. This is, of course, a rather tragic observation, but it confirms the importance of making much more progress than is currently the case. I think it is a good suggestion to go to Gaza with the European Union and others. I've always been in favour of people going to Gaza. As a minister, I have done the same in a previous period. You have to show that you belong, that you don't let people alienate you. The messages again show why it is so important that that return is there. I am also thinking of stopping imports of wood. It shows that Israel constantly monitors the situation and intervenes when it thinks that its own security is being compromised. That is the discussion which Mr Voordewind also referred to. I would like to make a few comments on the contribution of the SGP to the Gaza Reconstruction Mechanism. This mechanism has the checks requested by Israel, hence the full cooperation of that country. There's confidence in the mechanism. Otherwise, there would be too many leaks. The scanner plays an important role in this. It works well, but it has to go a bit further in order to really be able to dent in a packet of butter. I would like to make a comment on the report of the committee led by General Cammaert in the light of the horrors we all saw during the Gaza war. I welcome the publication of the summary of the report of the United Nations Gaza Board of Inquiry. The content of the report itself is not known. I know why that is, also from my experience as head of a United Nations peacekeeping operation. The content of such a report is not in itself made public. The summary suggests a thorough investigation. I have the impression that General Cammaert has handled it handsomely. The work extends to actions from all sides. As far as the results of the investigation are concerned, we must first deplore the deaths and injuries that have occurred in UN schools as a result of Israeli actions. In addition, it is important to say here that it is unacceptable that weapons have been found in three UN schools and that weapons have probably been removed from two of them. The use of schools as an opportunity to shoot off missiles is, of course, extremely reprehensible and dangerous. In at least one case, Palestinian militant groups are responsible for this. The report of the Gaza Board of Inquiry reaffirms the need for truly transparent and credible investigation and possible prosecution by both sides of alleged violations of humanitarian war law in the Gaza conflict. That's what the reports point to. I also think that this should be done. The Israeli authorities are currently investigating incidents arising from their own actions. Six out of 126 incidents have so far led to criminal investigations and 17 have been closed without criminal consequences. Dozens of others are currently being investigated. In addition, the incidents arising from self-action from General Cammaert's board or inquiry report are investigated. As a result, criminal investigations have been launched. Furthermore, Hamas has no movement towards the persecution of people. In addition, it is important that the follow-up to the recommendations of the report is taken seriously. The Secretary-General of the United Nations recognizes this just like the Netherlands. In this way, it is necessary to ensure that criminal prosecution is indeed used if it is essential and necessary. We're monitoring that, of course. It is not a good thing to have impunity in situations like this. I would like to say to Mr Voordewind that it is a matter of improving the safety of UNRWA schools by developing standard safety guidelines, strengthening the training of guards and developing better risk analysis and control options. Questions have been asked about the Breaking the Silence report, which describes, on the basis of a large number of testimonies from Israeli soldiers, that the military doctrine was not aimed at preventing civilian casualties. I have, of course, also taken note of that report with great care. It reaffirms the need for real investigation and prosecution on both sides of alleged violations of humanitarian war law in the Gaza conflict. I can refer to the comments I made on the Camerat report. It is also important that parties give a full picture of this to the outside world. It is therefore important that it should be further examined, if not already done. The embassy in Tel Aviv, on behalf of the cabinet, has now asked the Israeli authorities, i.c. The military attorney general's office. During his recent visit to both sides, the Human Rights Ambassador also stressed the importance of transparency in its own investigations. We must, of course, keep an eye on that now. The Israeli authorities report to take the report seriously and consider the possibilities of investigating reported occurrences, including those related to leadership. If an offence is identified in the investigation by the military lawyer general, measures may be taken depending on the circumstances, ranging from disciplinary sanctions to criminal prosecution. Hamas and the Palestinian Authority have not yet acted on this. The report of the Human Rights Council is expected in June. I understand it's not being adjusted. Apart from the nature, scope and choice of the research, the European Union has called on all interested parties to participate in that commission of inquiry. We must therefore wait for the report to be published. Mr. Chairman. I think I have answered most of the questions from the Chamber. I would therefore like to conclude my first answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u83	The Dutch government is still subsidising organisations that are anti-Israeli and anti-Semitic propaganda companies. An example of this is the NDC, an organisation that not too long ago funded a video stating that Jews are rats and must be driven into the sea. Why is the Dutch government going through with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u84	The Dutch government supports organisations that carry out actions related to reconciliation or strengthening civil society within the framework of a policy set out in the Chamber. If you have reports about things that are not acceptable, I am, of course, prepared to look into them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u85	So far, I have tabled some eleven motions and asked questions about this type of organisation. It is not just about the NDC, but also about organisations such as Al-Haq and Badil, which, for example, states that suicide terrorism is fine. So that's a call for violence and murder. All these organisations receive direct or indirect subsidies from the Dutch state. Is this Minister prepared to stop this madness and cut these subsidies off?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u86	There are a lot of suggestions in Mr Van Klaveren's question. I don't recognize the terms either. Of course, the Netherlands does not support anti-Semitic organisations. That would be unacceptable and we will not. If Mr Van Klaveren has examples of this, I am prepared to look at it at any time. That would be a horror, and it is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u87	I just mentioned examples.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u88	I would also like to see what has been said. I have also seen examples of Mr Van Klaveren in which I do not recognize at all the image he sketches. However, let there be no misunderstanding: we are subsidising, on the basis of directives drawn up with the Chamber, certain organisations which play a positive role in the context of reconstruction and in the context of reconciliation projects between Israel and the Palestinians. I also intend to extend that programme further. That is the crux of the matter. However, when Mr Van Klaveren presents specific cases, I am always prepared to look into them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u89	Following Mr Van Klaveren's example, an Israeli minister has also joined the cabinet calling Palestinian children "little rats." Nevertheless, I hope that the Dutch Government will and will continue to engage in a constructive dialogue with this government. For the sake of form, I'm just gonna ask you if that's the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u90	If this Minister has said so, I will, of course, refrain from doing so. We're supposed to distance ourselves from that, too. However, that is no reason to stop discussing this matter with the Israeli Government. I have just said that we want to move forward on a number of points.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u91	I may have missed something, but I have asked another question about the payment of terrorists in Israeli prisons. I also asked a question about pensions. We have also asked questions about this in Parliament. We had hoped that they would be answered before this debate, but that is not the case. I also asked a question about the drafting and implementation of the amendment on reconciliation projects. Could the Minister say a few words on these three points?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u92	With regard to the specific case mentioned by Mr Voordewind, I contacted the Minister for Social Affairs. He will answer that question very soon. The Court is aware that payment is also made in this particular case. We are now looking very specifically at what exactly needs to be done in this scheme. I understand the feelings about this in Dutch society very well, especially when it comes to Holocaust victims. The Chamber also knows that there is a policy on settlements. One must not, however, be at the expense of the other. In any case, this means that people should not be the victims of this either. We are now looking for a legal opportunity to do so in an appropriate way. Fortunately, this particular lady has been restored. I would also refer to an early response by the Minister for Social Affairs. But, as I said, it really needs to be looked at as closely as possible, so that it is also a legally final argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u93	And the other two questions put by Mr Voordewind?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u94	Can I come back to those two questions in the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u95	Yeah, that's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u96	The Minister always refers to the standing discouragement policy there is when it comes to labels. Would it not fit within the discouragement policy to stop granting tax rebates to organisations supporting projects in illegal settlements? After all, through this tax rebate we directly support projects in the illegal settlements.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u97	I have just said that the policy of discouragement stands. I'm not going to change that now. I have chosen the path I have indicated, through the European Union. I'd like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u98	This has nothing to do with the European Union. The Netherlands has a policy of discouragement. That policy focuses on activities in the illegal settlements. At the same time, the Dutch Tax Administration is giving an anomaly, an error or overlooked tax-freedom to organisations, the so-called anbi-organisations, which support projects in illegal settlements. Those two things don't relate to each other, do they?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u99	It's always hard to respond to such a statement. I really should look first at which organisations are involved and whether that is indeed the case. I just said that the policy of discouragement is as it is. If I have to look into it more closely, I'd like to have specific questions and I'll answer them. Right now, I can't answer it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u100	Thank you. This has put an end to the government's first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u101	In the second term, I shall give the first floor to Mr Sjoerdsma of the D66 Group. You have two minutes' speaking time, including the reading of any motions, Mr Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u102	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for his reply. We have had to wait a long time for this debate. And what does it turn out to be? Einstein's definition of madness is always doing the same thing and expecting a different result is just government policy. I do not see a new attitude of this cabinet, not after the Gaza war, not after Kerry's failure, not after the new Netanyahu government, not after Netanyahu's statements that there will be no two-state solution. The Minister says that we are waiting for the action to be taken. You know what? That is also what the previous Minister said about the previous Israeli government and the previous one. It's business as usual. We discussed labelling. That theme put Minister Timmermans himself on the agenda, but then there was disagreement in the opposition. What is this Minister doing with labelling, with the idea of simply telling people where products come from and with the idea of no longer having products in the store that say they are from Israel, even though they simply are not? The cabinet does nothing but point to Europe. We discussed conditionality for the forums. This instrument is seen by the cabinet itself as "enhanced relations," a "floor," a "strengthening." That's how the former minister spoke. Can't we make these fora conditional? Can we not make them dependent on the behaviour of both parties? Everywhere we do "more for more, less for less," but here we do "more for less," not to mention the recognition of Palestine. The Foreign Minister began his speech with Einstein and in the last few hours he also showed that Einstein was right. That's why I'm filing the following motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Cabinet established bilateral fora with Israel and the Palestinians to "enhance and deepen" relations with both parties and to contribute constructively to the peace process;]] [[Whereas it is important for the peace process that both parties comply with international agreements;]] [[calls on the Government to make bilateral fora conditional on the commitment of both parties to commitments made, human rights, international law and their commitment to a peace agreement with a two-state solution,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Sjoerdsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-23432-401]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u103	I have one short question about that. To what extent does the D66 Group consider that both participants in these fora take part in such a decision? What, according to D66, should happen if both sides say: continue with these fora?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u104	For D66 it is important not so much what the other parties think of these fora, but what these fora say about the preparation of the Netherlands itself. Of course, both Israel and the Palestinians will be satisfied with the intensification of relations, with the approximation of business-to-business and scientific relations, and with high-level political consultations. What country isn't happy about that? However, the question is whether, as the Netherlands, we should opt bilaterally for an intensification of relations with countries that violate human rights and international law and, in general, do not advance the peace process. That is my main point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u105	In that last piece is the essence. Mr Sjoerdsma concludes that at some point they are no longer moving forward the peace process, but for the peace process, the way these two parties see it does not seem to me to be insignificant. I said the following in my first term. Should one of the two parties say 'this goes wrong; this is bothering us; it is rather an obstacle to the peace process' or 'you should not do this with the other party', then you have a serious discussion. But if both sides of the House and their own forum say they see it not only as an economic advantage but also as a contribution to the peace process, does Mr Sjoerdsma say "I don't care; even then I will stop if I like it"?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u106	I find it quite a lot to call these fora a contribution to the peace process. I simply think they're a reward for bad behavior. It is exactly as I have just said: everywhere we argue as a Chamber, including the PvdA,'more for more, less for less' and this case we do'more for less'. I simply do not think that can be explained. Mr President, I'm almost done.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u107	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u108	Time went on for a while during the interruption of Mr Servaes...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u109	Ha ha ha ha ha. That's really not true!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u110	... I saw. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the cabinet is working at European level on guidelines for correct labelling of products from Israeli settlements;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up a national guideline if there is no European guideline for correct labelling in September,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Sjoerdsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-23432-402]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u111	Mr. Chairman. Products are sold in the Netherlands that say "made in Israel," while they are produced in occupied Palestinian territory. For example, Albert Heijn sells dates and grapefruits that come from occupied territory, labeled "made in Israel." Also the Vomar, for example, which on the Opal Street in Alkmaar you know sells basil with "made in Israel" which is in fact simply produced in occupied area. The Dutch Food and War Authority must monitor this and we would like to give it more room for manoeuvre. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that research shows that products from illegal Israeli settlements in occupied Palestinian territory are sold in supermarkets in the Netherlands with Israel as the country of origin on the label;]] [[considers that this situation is unacceptable, inter alia because it misleads consumers;]] [[calls on the Dutch Government to make more resources available to the Dutch Food and War Authority, so that more checks can be carried out on the labelling of products from settlements,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Bommel and Mr Grashoff. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-23432-403]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u112	In my first term, I also made a point about Palestinian children in Israeli captivity. We continue to disagree on this. I believe that the Netherlands should do more and involve this in the bilateral relationship with Israel. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Israel is a party to the Convention on the Rights of the Child;]] [[noting that Israel has been acting for years in violation of the Convention with regard to Palestinian children in Israeli captivity;]] [[calls on the Dutch Government to make an impact on how bilateral relations with Israel are shaped if the country continues to act in violation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Bommel. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-23432-404]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u113	Finally, I have spoken about the generally beneficial institutions which receive tax relief and tax-free allowances from the Dutch Tax Administration. The minister wasn't aware of that. I don't blame him, because he's been gone a few years. We have debated this before in this Chamber. I would like to invite the Minister to read back that debate and then come back to it. The settlement policy has changed and I would like to see this part of the Dutch tax legislation brought into line with the policy of discouragement. I would like to be informed in writing by the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u114	Mr. Chairman. The minister himself mentioned the einstein theory of folly. We must try to break the einstein cycle of bombing, building, paying, etc. I think that unites us all here in the Chamber. In order to do so, however, we must prevent a new arms-building operation in Gaza. That is why I ask the Minister whether he sees possibilities, because the international community pays, to organise inspection or supervision of that arms building in Gaza. Another example to prevent this madness is to pay salaries to Palestinian terrorists in Israeli prisons. I shall table the next motion for a resolution on this matter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that since 2011, the Palestinian Authority has been transferring money to convicted Palestinians in Israeli prisons, up to $2,500 a month, that these funds can lead to a perverse incentive, rewarding crime and terrorism, and that the PLO has assumed responsibility for this from the Palestinian Authority;]] [[whereas, in accordance with the Voordewind/Van der Staaij motion adopted, the Netherlands raised this issue within Europe in order to move the Palestinian Authority and now the PLO to refrain from financing convicted Palestinians;]] [[calls on the Government to take stock of the possibilities for increasing pressure on the PLO,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Voordewind, Mr Bishop and Mr Van Klaveren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-23432-405]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u115	The second motion, which is also the last one, concerns the AOW allowances withheld. We will get an answer on this, but I think it is important to make a ruling on this matter to the Chamber. The motion reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that a new directive has entered into force on 1 January 2015 to reduce single AOWs living inter alia in areas such as the West Bank, East Jerusalem and Golan, while this has not been the case since the Treaty was concluded in 1984;]] [[whereas the final status of these areas should be determined in a comprehensive peace agreement and citizens who have built up AOW in the Netherlands should not be the victims of such political decisions;]] [[calls on the Government to repeal the new Directive,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Voordewind and Mr Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-23432-406]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u116	In my first term I was interrupted by Mr Voordewind on this matter. It has become clear from the reply that there is no question of stopping or cutting that benefit. So I don't quite understand this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u117	I do not know whether Mr Ten Broeke has listened very precisely to the Minister's reply. He said that a practical solution had been devised for the one individual case, the 90-year-old lady. However, I am aware that she is not the only one involved in this, as was shown by the SVB. In addition, there is a whole category of people born after 1945 who have travelled to Israel, with whom a discount on the AOW is applied. My group believes that this is immoral. That's why I'm asking for a ruling from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u118	I understand the motion in such a way that Mr Voordewind asks whether this is a different policy or whether he is asking for the reasoning which has been applied to that one individual case to be applied to continue to be generic.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u119	It is indeed my wish that the application to that one lady of 90 should now be made generic. This is a new measure, which started on 1 January 2015. My request to the Chamber is to support the proposal that this one exception should now also be extended to include those who receive AOW and have moved to Israel.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u120	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his first speech. I note that most of the parties in the Chamber, and indeed the Minister himself, believe that the policy pursued in recent years with regard to the Middle East peace process and the international community's involvement in it, does not produce results. Everyone agrees on that. The answer is then: either we continue to do so or we intensify it a little more. I'm a little surprised about that, because it's not such a weird idea to ask you whether it might not be just a stupid idea to want to go that way. In any case, the Minister said that he wanted to step up the European role in the Middle East peace process. He said that I thought it was very important that both sides, Israel and the Palestinians, should have their houses in order for these negotiations to be held. That is where things go wrong, on the Palestinian side. This is not going to work with the disastrous Palestinian leadership in Gaza and Ramallah. We have often seen enough attempts to create a so-called unitary government. It just doesn't work with these people. I'd say keeping that leadership in the saddle is fateful. We do this by constantly giving support and money to it again and again. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the UN is leading the way in an international anti-Israelobsession;]] [[calls on the Government to stop immediately any Dutch contribution to UN projects in Gaza,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Roon. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-23432-407]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u121	Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. The first is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, together with other European countries, the cabinet is committed to labelling Israeli products from the West Bank;]] [[Whereas, in practice, this could lead to the boycott of Israeli products;]] [[calls on the Government to strongly distance itself, including at European level, from the intended labelling,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Klaveren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-23432-408]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u122	I have a second motion. The Minister asked for examples of organisations receiving subsidies and anti-Semitic propaganda companies. I got this one. Answers to Parliamentary questions of 28 May 2014 show that the Minister himself indicated that the organisation I mentioned, Badil, had already had to deal with a grant summit because of the call for violence. However, this organization has just received another grant and therefore I submit the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Cabinet has indicated its willingness to take action against organisations receiving anti-Semitic propaganda companies and subsidies;]] [[calls on the Government to stop subsidies to organisations that make anti-Semitic statements or pass these subsidies on to organisations and/or individuals who are guilty of them,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Klaveren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-23432-409]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u123	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to receive a letter from the Minister on the interruption I just made on the TTIP Convention and on the amendments tabled in the United States to make it impossible to impose sanctions on settlements. I believe that this debate makes three points clear to us. Firstly, the role of the Netherlands is marginal because of geopolitical relations that are changing. Secondly, the Minister regrets all sorts of things, and that falls within the definition of folly given by Einstein. Thirdly, the Minister does not deal with the bilateral powers that the Minister has. I know that Mr Bert Koenders wants to take steps in the right direction and that the same Minister Bert Koenders does not want to belong to those former politicians who, in the time they had the opportunity to do something about it, have done nothing. He has the opportunity now to do something. Minister, get on with it while you still can!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u124	Mr. Chairman. The last words, at least in this debate, of Mr Kuzu'make some work now it is possible' may suggest that this Minister's term of office is almost over. I would particularly like to encourage the Minister on this point to continue with the very balanced line he has put in on this extremely complicated dossier. I am pleased that the Minister has emphasised the European role in this respect. A role that has been created a little against will and thanks, in the past did not always come out well, but at this moment more than ever is needed. It is a role that can bring together a number of countries within Europe, which has been rather complicated to date. Perhaps this debate is a little too early, although it is eight months too late in Mr Sjoerdsma's view to be able to assess the results of Mrs Mogherini's visit to Israel, but we will be discussing this shortly. My experience, on the basis of the trip I made last week to Israel and the Palestinian territories, is that there is a great need "at grass level" to achieve lasting peace. The contributions from this Chamber also show that everyone craves this lasting peace, not short-term peace, but above all lasting peace. That's a complicated process. I wish the Minister every success. He can count on our support if he continues this line. Let us hope that his efforts will lead to results.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u125	Mr. Chairman. There doesn't seem to be much change. On the basis of the Minister's reply, I note that the broad thrust of the commitment is very much awaiting, that little is being done and that little firm position is being taken. Others have already said it here: it does suggest that the trap which the minister himself warned of, namely the madness of Einstein, is also the trap for this minister and for this government. A point of light, which I would nevertheless like to mention, is that an approach, more at European level, should be recommended. That is what the Minister has highlighted, and we support it. What is and will remain extremely difficult is the fact that the Dutch effort is still very unclear and very inflamed, whatever should come out of it. There must be a pace and a dent in a package of butter. It does not yet appear that the Minister is actually calling for acceleration and strengthening at European level. In this respect, I would like to ask one more question, which the Minister may be able to answer in the second term. The Minister has not clarified my call for a clear European withdrawal of the association agreement as well. Perhaps the Minister would like to comment on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u126	GroenLinks has been on tea with Hamas in the past, and GroenLinks spokesperson Voortman said some time ago that we should accept Hamas. Does the GroenLinks spokesperson share that unholy vision?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u127	There is no question of accepting Hamas' activities that cannot be tolerated, and there are many of them. I do not think we disagree on that. What's under the law is by the law, and what's out there isn't. In this sense, there is absolutely no defence by GroenLinks of Hamas' terrorist activities.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u128	It is good to hear that Mr Grashoff distanced himself from the Green Left position that Hamas should be accepted. Then we assume he's not going to have tea there anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u129	Those are your words about what you think or think GroenLinks would say. It's not my words. I'll just keep them with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u130	Mr. Chairman. First of all, thank you to the Minister for answering the questions. I enjoyed the realistic and ideal-driven approach of the Minister, although the subject does not really invite us to do so. I can imagine. He was particularly realistic in the sense of: people, let's be sober and not overestimate our position. Of course we have good contacts. We want to use it, and wherever that's possible, we want to use it to both sides. We want to make an effort, but let us not think that we, as a small Netherlands, are the deciding factor. That is a worthy approach: do what is in your power and do not overestimate yourself and above all do not shout over. I have missed the answer to one of my questions. I would now like to link that question to a motion. I suspect that is why the Minister has left the answer a little. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Middle East Peace Process is also frustrated by feeding immoral imagery of mutual parties, including by sowing hatred or glorifying terror;]] [[Whereas in the past there has been an international committee where expressions of hatred and other abuses could be reported, but this committee no longer functions;]] [[calls on the Minister to examine the opportunity of setting up an internationally constituted committee where both Israeli and Palestinian complaints about abuses and abuses can be presented and assessed publicly and transparently, and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bishop and Mr Voordewind. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-23432-410]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u131	For the record, we do not submit this motion in the naive assumption that it will all work out if there is such a schoolmaster-like committee. No, we are tabling this motion because we want to help build the peace process from the bottom up. For it is an illusion to think that peace could be achieved in the short term. It takes a superhuman miracle. The miracles are not yet out of the world that we are confessing from the SGP with verve.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... It would be nice if we could make a contribution in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u132	Mr. Chairman. Is this minister an activist or does he accept the policy that has existed for years? That's actually what the discussion was about today. It is a difficult question, but he has, in particular, set out some very activist thoughts on the European track. We're gonna have to pay him back for those results in the next few days. The tricky thing is that we here, the well-introduced politicians, however we look at them, understand very well what the limitations are and why we need to build European consensus. However, explain it to people who can turn themselves on horribly, and so horribly, over the endless length in which this conflict drags on. Explain it in rooms here in the Netherlands and explain it in the region. So the tension is fried in it. However, I support the Minister's line and I am pleased that support for this European line is also growing, at least in this Chamber, in Europe and hopefully in the region. I want what we have discussed to come back in a motion. That motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Sjoerdsma/Omtzigt motion (23432), No. 377) of 3 July 2014 calls for an enhanced role for the EU in the Middle East Peace Process;]] [[Whereas the Foreign Affairs Council of 17 November 2014 concludes that the Middle East Peace Process is a priority theme and that the development of future relations with both Israeli and Palestinian partners is also dependent on their commitment to a peace agreement based on a two-state solution;]] [[whereas the European Parliament resolution 2014/2964 supports the recognition of the Palestinian State, calls on the EU to assume its responsibility as facilitator of the peace process and calls on the High Representative to come up with a common EU strategy;]] [[Considering that reconciliation between Palestinian parties is essential and that the lack of effective authority of the Palestinian Unitary Government in Gaza constitutes an important obstacle;]] [[Considering that the Israeli Prime Minister has in election time distanced himself from the two-state solution, that the coalition agreement of the new Israeli Government lacks a concrete commitment to the two-state solution and that the construction of new illegal settlements in occupied territory has recently been announced;]] [[Considering that the prospect of a resumption of credible peace negotiations, following the previous failure of the Kerry Initiative, is further out of sight and that without international pressure, there is no chance of a resumption of serious discussions;]] [[calls on the Government to endeavour to present as soon as possible a common EU strategy for the Middle East Peace Process, in which the principle that the development of relations with both parties depends on their commitment to a peace agreement based on a two-state solution is guiding and developed in concrete measures,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Servaes and Mr Sjoerdsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-23432-411]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u133	It is a very long motion and it will undoubtedly have been very much considered, but I thought I heard somewhere in the recitals that Mr Sjoerdsma did... Mr Servaes, I mean. I'm making the mistake you usually make now, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u134	And I've been practicing it so much!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u135	I would have liked to have given it to you. Let's just say we share this now. Mr Servaes chose to emphasise in the recitals two elements which I believe have been deliberately chosen unilaterally. Why is that? He is quoting the current Prime Minister in his role as campaign leader of his party, and then there have been repeated statements that contradict that. I do not ask Mr Servaes to qualify them. He'll have to pass his own judgment on it. But why did he only take that statement in order to give colour to the tone of this motion? We have also had to and have been able to see today that the important visit by Mrs Mogherini, who is in charge of Europe in this area, produced a clear statement by Netanyahu on the two states. I think that Mr Servaes should agree with me. The second is...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u136	This is a very long question. Why don't we just wait and see the answer to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u137	The next question is very brief and Mr Servaes can take it into account in his answer at once. However, the motion stresses that the coalition agreement does not contain a two-state solution, but does not stress that there is peace talks, while the previous government, Netanyahu, used exactly the same wording, which led to peace talks. Why the one-sidedness?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u138	I do not regard that as one-sided. I have already said in the debate that I welcome the return of Prime Minister Netanyahu today. It's something I've heard quite through. I hope, with Mr Ten Broeke, that this will not be the case in the elections. Firstly, however, I note that this statement has been made and, secondly, that there is no concrete commitment to the two-state solution in the coalition agreement, even more so, that there are elements in the coalition agreement that are contrary to the two-state solution. I have mentioned an example of this today, namely the legalisation of outposts. In that sense, I think this is a very relevant remark and a relevant element. I would like to say to Mr Ten Broeke that if Netanyahu, as Prime Minister or as Foreign Minister, has said something else about this today, it is welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u139	Fine, then let's just look directly at the operative part. This means that Mr Servaes and Mr Sjoerdsma simply ask the Minister to urge Mrs Mogherini to put the strategy on paper as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u140	Mr Ten Broeke understood that very well. "As soon as possible" is of course essential in this regard. I started my speech today by saying that there is a sense of urgency. After waiting so long, after waiting for the Israeli elections and waiting for the coalition talks, something really happens now. That's exactly the point. It is very good to see that the basis for this is increasing tonight. The Minister now says that he embraces the motion, which was dissuaded by his predecessor last year. In fact, I think I have heard that Mr Ten Broeke is now also supporting the European rail network. That's a win, I'd say. We do not all agree on this. But now perhaps I can quote Einstein as well: "a night on which everyone agrees is a lost evening." We are still debating it, but we are therefore in agreement on this point. That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u141	Let us at least agree on one thing. If Mrs Mogherini manages to be as brief as Mr Servaes' motion, that strategy can undoubtedly reach us very quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u142	Let's hope so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u143	I would like to have a more detailed explanation of the motion. If you isolate the motion to the operative part only, you would think: in my opinion, the Minister has explicitly put it this way and the motion therefore supports policy. Then I wonder what the added value of the motion is. However, you must always look at the whole motion and also take into account the context of the considerations. Is the motion intended to call on the Minister for the ultimate recognition of the Palestinian State? If so, the motion has a very different sound. What does Mr Servaes intend to do with the motion? Does he simply want to support the Minister, or is it the intention to ultimately achieve recognition of the Palestinian State through the operative part?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u144	It is no secret in this Chamber that it is my intention to achieve recognition of the Palestinian State. But I can assure Mr Voordewind that that is not the intention of this motion. I would have reworded the motion. I have very consciously and perhaps to reassure you, I have also presented the European Parliament's resolution by name and number. All finesses of the motion can therefore be read back. I think this is an important motion, because it identifies the EU's responsibility and because an important mission is given to the High Representative. However, the purpose of the motion is contained in the operative part.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u145	Perhaps Mr Servaes will be able to explain the difference between the operative part and what the Minister has been trying to say all evening. I have heard the Minister specifically say that he is making an effort to achieve European policy on this matter as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u146	I don't think so. I hope that this motion will support policy as a qualification. That would be good, because it would allow the House to approve it by a large majority. It wouldn't be the first time. I can imagine that Mr Voordewind has also sometimes tabled a motion which has received this qualification. However, I think it is important for this moment, with all the political qualifications there and here, to be taken together in this motion. A few elements are indeed very good to describe once again clearly, such as the speed and link between the behaviour of both states and what that means for future relations with the EU. Finally, it should not just be generalities, but we should ask the High Representative to come up with concrete proposals and measures. Those three elements are important for me to establish tonight. If Mr Voordewind could also support this proposal, my evening could not be broken.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u147	Mr. Chairman. Another fundamental debate on Israel and the Palestinians, in which Einstein played the leading role tonight. Who'd have thought? Isn't that the man who's most famous for his relativity theory? Relativity is not insignificant. Although that sometimes seems difficult in this evergreen of Dutch foreign politics, this proxy fight of good intentions, this song festival of recognizable tunes. In Ramallah and Jerusalem they were glued to the tube tonight, I was told. They just called in the results. In Orthodox circles, Mr De Roon received 12 points. Peace Nu supporters cheered for colleague Sjoerdsma. In the Netanyahu house no points were given to Mr Van Bommel, just as in the Mukataa where Palestinian leadership was surprised when Mr Kuzu compared the Palestinian case with that of the Germans. The most frequently asked question I get from colleagues after this kind of debate is: have you finally solved it? You don't have to be Einstein to find the solution to this problem. Borders, Jerusalem, refugees, security guarantees, water, land swaps: it is all known and requires no particular intelligence. Einstein found the real sign of intelligence, not knowledge, which we all have, but imagination. A fine challenge for the Minister of Foreign Affairs who has mirrored himself to Den Uyl: imagination. I don't have a quote from Joop den Uyl on hand, I wouldn't dare with this minister. I do know that Den Uyl had three portraits on his desk in the study of his home in Amsterdam-Buitenveldert. One of his wife Liesbeth, one of his youngest daughter Saskia, our former colleague, and one of Golda Meir. In this debate, nine months after the Gaza war with so many deaths, including innocent children who died both by Israeli bombs and by a Hamas reign of terror, I would like to quote one of Golda Meïr's most beautiful quotes about forgiveness to the other party: "We can forgive them for killing our children. We cannot forgive them for forcing us to kill their children. We will only have peace with them when they love their children more than they hate us." As far as I'm concerned, this is the only war doctrine that fits into a civilization. Because I hope that we can avoid a repetition here and because the Minister spoke about repeated history, I quote another statement by Einstein: 'Learn from yesterday, live today and hope for tomorrow'. The most important thing, however, is to keep asking questions. Ask Netanyahu if he wants two states, ask Abbas when he will sit at the negotiating table without conditions, ask Netanyahu when he thinks he will solve the housing shortage on his side of the Green Line, ask Abbas when he will take responsibility for the homes in Gaza. Only if they can answer the wisdom of Einstein in the spirit of Golda Meir and in their minds can this conflict be resolved. That's not in this Chamber, it's in the negotiating room.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u148	This brings to an end the second term on the part of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u149	Madam President. I would like to thank the Chamber for the extended second term, as well as for the different views expressed on the problem in the Middle East. I think it is important to know in the follow-up process how the Chamber stands. It is true that the Chamber is almost as divided as the speakers and the partners in the peace process itself. That does not make it easy, but I do think it is important that the peace process in the Middle East is monitored very closely in the House of Representatives. I have great appreciation for that. When you mention Einstein, of course, it's always a risk of getting it back. I appreciate that, too. But the following is something I must honestly admit, and I say this especially in the direction of the D66 Group. Because if I heard one mantra tonight, it was from the D66 group. It has tabled a motion on labelling and conditionality of forums. But then it does not give any new analysis of the geostrategic position in the country. Nor does she have any idea how we should attract diplomacy further and how we can increase the pressure at the same time when we are achieving results. I must say, therefore, that I am not going to do another you-bowl, because you have the right of the Chamber to say that I thought that was an incredible simplification, which I did not expect from Mr Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u150	Mr Sjoerdsma has the need to respond to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u151	No, Mr. Chairman, I don't have to respond to that. I just want to say that, if I had the Minister's speaking time, I might have gotten to that analysis.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u152	I think that's a very simple explanation. You mentioned on a number of points that this Minister is not doing anything, at the very moment when, following a request from the D66 Group, he is very serious about filling in the European role. I believe that you have included this in a motion for a resolution. It really is not about this government, and certainly, with all due respect, about the policy we have implemented in recent months, to say that it is passive, just when we are looking for a way. Yeah, it's true I don't have insurance for that. And yes, it is true that, given the situation there, the matter cannot simply improve. I have indicated why I think this is the most effective way at the moment. Of course you can say: if we start labelling in the Netherlands and attach a number of conditionality to the forums, national responsibility will probably be taken and we will get a lot further. But I doubt it and I don't think it is. So I'm moving away from that position. I think it is very important that we think together now about what should happen at this time. Without taboos, I'll say right away. European decision-making also takes place without taboos; look at the Council conclusions on this. If these attempts are dared, you can then say: the government is lagging behind. To be honest, however, I do not agree with that. Anyway, that's a difference of opinion. That is also perfectly legitimate, especially in this debate, where there are many differences of opinion. I would like to say a few words about the specific questions that have been raised, and I would also like to address the motions that have been tabled. I come first to Mr Grashoff's questions. Indeed, the suspension of the association agreement is not currently being discussed. We may have a difference of opinion on this, because he thinks it is a matter of course. There are possibilities within the Association Agreement to make the most of it, in particular the structured dialogue, including on difficult issues. As you know, we have also advocated limiting the implementation of the agreement to the 1967 limits. This has also been included in the Council conclusions. Of course, every package that is now being presented includes the association agreement. A question has been asked about PEGASE and the payment of the salary of officials recruited under Hamas administration and members of Hamas. Payment to these officials with money from the European Union or the Netherlands is not at issue. The integration of civil servants is an important requirement for reconciliation. Both sides negotiate this with Swiss mediation. For the time being, the demands of both parties are very different and no concrete steps are being taken. The Swiss proposal provides for quality and safety checks using international penalty lists. Only after successful integration, in which all civil servants are effectively controlled by the Consensus Government, can the question arise as to whether the European Union is prepared to include all civil servants in PEGASE. No decision has yet been taken on this. The process is important because integration can only succeed if the PA can actually return to Gaza. A possible request to the European Union to co-pay offers the opportunity to influence the review and to persuade the parties to an effective and efficient government, which is effectively driven in Gaza by a consensus government. But we are far from there. The current situation is clearly unsustainable. The civil servants who work don't all get paid. Some of the civil servants sitting at home are paid. The Swiss proposal is based on the principle of "who works, gets paid and who gets paid must work." With this principle, PEGASE could be used effectively for further reforms and encourage parties to take necessary steps. A question has been asked about reconciliation projects. Reconciliation projects contribute to promoting dialogue between groups and increasing mutual understanding and support for the two-state solution. At the moment, the political structures have been dug in on both sides, while there are still a lot of people on both sides who do want to move forward. That is why I do not think these projects of cooperation and reconciliation between Palestinians and Israelis are naive. In fact, I think they're very important. That is why there is also a structural commitment to reconciliation projects by the posts Ramallah and Tel Aviv. They are also very much appreciated by both sides. This structural commitment fits in with the Dutch role, whereby the Netherlands uses its good relations to support the two-state solution. It's not gonna happen on its own. It's got to come from inside. There is a structural commitment, partly through projects that can respond flexibly to developments, and partly through larger projects that aim at greater impact. The Netherlands already supports a number of successful projects, including trilateral projects between Palestinians and Israelis. These projects promote that in different sectors, such as water, human rights, knowledge and research. We have identified a number of new projects that promote cooperation and reconciliation between Israelis and Palestinians from the bottom up. Palestinian prisoners in Israeli detention have been requested. Would the Netherlands like to make the same request to UNICEF for research into Palestinian minors in Palestinian prisons? The answer is yes. It is appropriate that UNICEF should also pay attention to this. Of course, it is the primary responsibility of the Palestinian Authority and the Israeli Government, but I think it is a good proposal, which we will also bring in. I come to the motions and begin with Mr Sjoerdsma's motion on item No. 401 on conditionality and fora. In the light of my previous remarks, I would like to advise against that motion. I consider such conditionality to be unwise. Both sides attach importance to the forums. That is an important observation for me. It means that's what they want because the other one's in on it. We are working on those reconciliation projects, which I have just mentioned. These projects should also be seen in this context, but the forums are of course not uncritical. On a number of points raised by Mr Sjoerdsma, these fora are precisely the opportunity to emphasise the great importance of human rights, international law and the two-state solution to both sides. So do we. Also, and perhaps in the current circumstances, it is important to stay in conversation with both. At the moment, I think it is a practical and balanced communication channel. In the motion in part No. 402 introduces a time element to Mr Sjoerdsma. It is not entirely clear to me why this motion was tabled, because the author said that it had to be done at national level. Now I understand that it is still dependent on European decision-making. I think that should be done quickly. During the ISD, I drew attention to the letter from the 16 EU Member States and called for its follow-up. The High Representative was prompted by that letter to speed up. It is now important to wait for the response and not to anticipate it. We'll keep the fingers on the wrist. There is also the importance of the European approach. It has not only to do with more impact, but also with a level playing field and a uniform explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u153	What about the verdict on the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u154	I advise against the adoption of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u155	Why does the Minister advise the motion anyway? I ask this because the Minister says that he wants to try European first and that it must be done quickly. That's what I want. Only the odds of that happening aren't so great. If it does not happen quickly and not Europeanly, it would be good if the Minister had a plan B ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u156	It would also be very good to have a plan B, but you mention a specific date: in September. If that date is not met, I must take other measures. I don't think that's wise. I do not think that date is wise either, because we are assuming that a serious European approach is now being launched. Of course, that can't last forever, but I would really like to argue in favour of going the European way now. You said earlier in your speech that you do not think that is necessary and that you want to do it nationally. That's why this motion is tied to two thoughts. I would have the motion in part no. 402, all in all, want to dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u157	Then the Minister must indicate when he thinks he can achieve something with this. This is an issue that has not been going on since March, but since his predecessor himself announced that he would introduce it. And that was over a year and a half ago! The trade association requires action and clarity. Civil society organisations are asking for clarity and I would also like to know when we can expect this result.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u158	You also know Europe: something should not take too long, but it is a process. I do not want to take anything away from this, because the Dutch Government has written a letter to the High Representative to speed up the process. I think you support that. I'm working on that right now, because that's the way I want to go. So I am not going to impose a deadline unilaterally from the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. In the motion tabled by Mr Van Bommel and Mr Grashoff in respect of item No. 403 the government is invited to make more resources available to the Dutch Food and War Authority so that more checks can be carried out on the labelling of settlement products. As Mr Van Bommel knows, the point is that you can sell something, but not at the favourable rates. In order to achieve this, we are working on European labelling. That's the way we want to go. That is why we are doing so. I am not aware of any shortage of funds from the Dutch Food and Consumer Authority. I would therefore advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u159	There are two aspects to this issue. On the one hand, there is the question of the unfairly enjoyed discount. The customs authorities must ensure that they do so on entry. On the other hand, the issue of consumer information is a matter for the consumer. The Food and Consumer Authority could carry out effective research on this at the time it is reported. And that is mentioned, this week by the SOMO foundation! I have mentioned the examples and I think that the NVWA should be actively asked to carry out research on this. For this the NVWA needs more capacity, because it does not yet do so. Does the Minister at all think that there should be a check on the accuracy of the indication of origin on labels?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u160	I believe that labelling should take place. I have indicated how I would like to promote this. We have also written a letter to the High Representative about this. I would also like to say that you are wrong to assume that there is a capacity problem with the Dutch Food and Consumer Protection Authority, because I know that is not the case. You are asking the government to make more resources available, and I do not think that is the point. That's why I'm dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u161	I would like to point out that there are labels in the Netherlands which contain an incorrect indication of origin. There is a need for extra checks on this and when we ask a service to carry out additional tasks, it is so neat to ensure that this service also has the resources to do so. That is the issue I put forward in this motion. In connection with this, I ask the Minister whether he is interested in what is on these labels in the Dutch supermarkets. Yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u162	I'm very interested in that. Similarly, I am interested that we have a proper labelling. I have just indicated how the Dutch Government sees it. So she's taking that problem as seriously as I am. In the motion, however, you ask the government to make additional resources available to the Dutch Food and War Authority. I don't see any reason for that. Then I come to the motion on part No. 404 by Mr Van Bommel on the rights of the child. It notes that Israel has for years been acting in violation of the Convention in relation to Palestinian children in Israeli captivity, and asks the Dutch Government to make an impact on the way in which bilateral relations with Israel are shaped if the country continues to act in violation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. That is an important point in itself, but in this the Dutch government is precisely "chef de ville" in Israel. In other words, the Netherlands is precisely the forerunner in this respect, but also the tractor and the chairman. The situation of Palestinian underage prisoners is very worrying. The impact on the Palestinian community is considerable, partly because of the nightly arrests. We are making progress on a number of points, and I would like to continue with that. For example, some reforms have been implemented. They have our special attention. I also refer to the January letter of inquiry. on this subject. The human rights ambassador also went to Israel on this point. On several points in it, therefore, we are going exactly in the direction Mr Van Bommel is referring to. A number of changes took place in February 2014. They need to be strengthened, for example with regard to night arrests and subpoenas, and their reduction. UNICEF published a second progress report in February 2015. We are working with UNICEF to improve the situation. UNICEF's report points to two reforms: an exercise on the number of arrests in the West Bank and the entry into force of Military Order 1745, which means that interrogations are subject to restrictions. Furthermore, the report refers to the findings of the Human Rights Council in November 2014, which concern the non-practice of military decrees and the raising of arrests of Palestinian minors who are often detained in detention without full procedural rights. The Netherlands is at the forefront in comparison to other countries. I agree that it is a small number of reforms, but it is important to continue. I am also very willing to report to the Chamber on this, because of course this is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u163	I have in the past raised with a number of colleagues when it comes to the arrest of Palestinian children, for example in the night, and whether or not I can invoke counseling, lawyers, who could assist them. In addition, another story is conceivable, because the Palestinian lawyers were often unwilling to be available. I was promised by Minister Koenders' predecessor that contact would be made with the Israeli military prosecutor on the West Bank. There have also been improvements, and we would also have a feedback from the Ministry in this area. I am not entirely clear about the January letter and I do not know whether it was based on it. If that's the case, I can see a little noisy. That's fine. But if that is not the case, I would urge the Minister to have that discussion very strongly and perhaps to show us the statistics of recent years.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u164	That is, of course, the case: there is a report of the discussion with the Chief Prosecutor of the West Bank at the Israeli Military Court, Colonel Hirsch. This concerns the reforms of the past period and the treatment of minor prisoners. That is indeed a commitment. However, let there be no misunderstanding. We all think this is a terrible situation. What is happening there, these nightly arrests, especially of children, is unacceptable. We're really working on that right now. So it is not so much that I do not share what is requested in the motion, but I believe that this is really a part where we are moving forward. We can talk about this again and then see how we can do it even better. This is an effective way to achieve something. I therefore propose that we continue to do so very actively.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u165	What is your verdict on this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u166	I'd advise against it. There is a call for a change in the form of bilateral relations, which we are trying to shape with some success on this very point. The motion in part No. Mr Voordewind's 405, Mr Bishop's 405 and Mr Van Klaveren's 405 are indeed complex matters. In any case, we have welcomed the fact that the PA is no longer interfering in this matter. But that is not a solution, because now the PLO has responsibility. We are implementing an earlier motion by reforming the payment system bilaterally and also at European level. I think the motion is superfluous, because it is already a policy in progress. In this case, I would like to leave the judgment to the Chamber, because I have no further problem with the motion. We are in the process of changing this and I think it is an important point. In that sense, I consider the motion to support the policy. I'll leave the judgment to the Chamber. Also the motion in part No. 406 is a very sensitive and difficult matter. The government shares that with the Chamber. I would ask the petitioner to hold the motion, otherwise I would have to advise against it. There is no new directive in force, so it cannot be repealed. I would ask the Chamber to await the question answer given by the colleague for Social Affairs and Employment. We have said because of this particular case that we do not think this is acceptable for all kinds of humanitarian and political reasons, so it has changed. Now we have to look very specifically at how it can be resolved properly. As Foreign Minister, I cannot give any further information about it now. The Chamber will be asked as soon as possible by the colleague of Social Affairs and Employment. In any case, there is no new directive in force. If the motion is maintained in these terms, I must advise against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u167	That's not the information I've been given. I called the SVB this afternoon, the implementing authority that pays the benefits. It has indeed said that this is a new instruction from the Ministry to introduce a reduction on 1 January 2015 after a transitional period. It is a new policy; that is why we have this situation. I am prepared to look at whether these answers to the parliamentary questions will be available until Tuesday, and to decide whether to put the motion to the vote, depending on that answer. I hope, however, that the answers to these parliamentary questions will come to the Chamber before the votes on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u168	This afternoon, we agreed on an additional procedure for this in order to await the answer of the parliamentary questions and see if further questions were needed through the Social Affairs and Employment band. Perhaps that will also offer an opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u169	We also agreed that the answers to these parliamentary questions would be available for the debate with the Secretary of State for Social Affairs, but I do not know when that debate will be planned. In any case, I hope that these questions can be answered before the votes. Then I can make up my mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u170	In the light of what the Chamber has previously decided on in the order of business, I will, of course, pass on Mr Voordewind's comments to the colleague for Social Security and Employment. I need the motion in part no. 407, because I do not agree with both the recital and the operative part. I do not believe that the United Nations is leading the way in an international anti-Israeli session. I believe, on the contrary, that the United Nations is doing incredibly handsome and courageous work in a very difficult situation in Gaza. I therefore advise against this motion. In his motion in part No. 408 Mr Van Klaveren asked the government to strongly distance itself, including at European level, from the intended labelling. I must also advise against this motion. I have just said that the government is committed to clarifying the application of rules of origin in the European context as well as to consumers and businesses. I'm getting to the motion on part No. 409 by Mr Van Klaveren. He has raised a number of issues on which we have already had an extensive exchange of views. Let me say first of all that the fight against anti-Semitism is a priority for the Dutch Government. I would like to stress this once again, because anti-Semitism has also increased in the Netherlands. The Dutch government distanced itself from this, both nationally and internationally. I don't have a good word for that. I say to some of the issues mentioned by Mr Van Klaveren that the definition he uses of anti-Semitism is not exactly the same as mine. One example is that the Israeli Government's departure from, for example, policy points. I don't think that has anything to do with each other. In this context, the Netherlands, together with Denmark, Sweden and Switzerland, provide support to Palestinian and Israeli NGOs through the Human Rights and International Humanitarian Law Secretariat. That secretariat shall have a careful selection procedure. The organisations concerned should adhere to standards and the assessment of funding applications shall consider whether funding of the consortium is not used for activities that are contrary to international law and therefore whether, for example, they would call for anti-Semitism. In the event of discrimination, calls for violence or hatred, the agreement may be terminated, after which the secretariat shall enter into talks with the support organisations. That's what happened to the Badil organization. I can refer to the letter from 2011. If there were indeed indications that the matter had not been resolved satisfactorily, the Secretariat would obviously have the right and duty, I think, to stop that contribution. I took a look at the motion. Of course I have sympathy for that. Of course, the government can never support organisations that make anti-Semitic statements or pass these subsidies on to organisations that are guilty of them. That's a little outside of the definition question. Let there be no misunderstanding about this. That is why I would like to qualify this motion as superfluous.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u171	Are you saying you don't need to advise the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u172	I don't think she's necessary. Furthermore, I leave the judgment to the Chamber. I think there is no misunderstanding between the Chamber or Mr Van Klaveren and me about the importance of tackling anti-Semitism.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u173	We still have to stay sharp.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u174	We'll do our best.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u175	Is the motion superfluous because, in the opinion of the government, there are no organisations that receive or pass on subsidies that are at the same time guilty of anti-Semitic expressions? Or is the motion superfluous because it is standing policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u176	It is superfluous because it is a stand-alone policy. The current policy is as follows. If there is information that there are behaviours that we do not think are acceptable because they are anti-Semitic, it should of course be stopped immediately. That would be a bad thing. And we're gonna stop it, too. In that sense, I have given this judgment. I would like to leave the judgment to the Chamber, because I have no problem with what is in the motion. Let there be no misunderstanding about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u177	I find this difficult, because I do not want to give the impression at the time of the vote that I do not have anything against anti-Semitic expressions. However, the author mentioned a whole list of examples of organisations covered, including human rights organisations. The motion calls for the cessation of subsidies. That's not a standing policy. The motion is about something that the government is doing now being stopped. I would like to ask the Minister whether he would not wish to discourage the motion with that explanation. Perhaps the author can confirm that explanation again. I would not like to take on board the discontinuation of subsidies to the organisations mentioned by the applicant.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u178	I have no further answer to that. I can only say that, as far as I am concerned, the motion does not refer to all those examples that have been mentioned. These are examples of Mr Van Klaveren. I have made a specific comment on one part. It was about the organization Badil. For the rest, it is a standing policy to stop subsidies to organisations that behave anti-Semitically. So that does not refer to these organisations, but of course the author is talking about interpretation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u179	I suggest we move on. The Minister has given an opinion. We proceed to the motion in part No. 410.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u180	The Bishop/Vordewind motion in part No. 410, I have a certain sadness to advise against. I do not do that because I do not think it is important, but there is already a trilateral committee against sedition and hatred. This is not working properly, despite Dutch insistence on it. It is better not to examine the opportunity of a new committee now, but to ensure that the trilateral committee that is there functions better. Israel has said: I do not think that is working properly at the moment. It would be too little transparency and too little follow-up would be given to matters. That is what we need to discuss. I would like to say that to Mr Bishop and Mr Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u181	That motion can indeed be read in the same way as that committee still exists. We had a strong impression that that led to a dormant existence. Then we must examine the opportunity to revitalize it. If it can be policy support in this way, it is a fine exegesis of this motion for a resolution for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u182	I think that is a good thing in itself, but I would like to ask whether the authors would like to amend the text of the motion. They ask for the examination of the establishment of an internationally constituted committee. I should really advise against that, when I understand very well what the proposers are saying. There is a trilateral committee, but it must work well. You might even come to the conclusion at some point that an alternative would have to be sought, if that were the case, but that does not seem to me to be the first way forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u183	We shall consider the amendment of the motion for a resolution for a moment and then re-table it in appropriate form.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u184	Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u185	I am not entirely happy with parts of the Servaes/Sjoerdsma motion in part No. 411. The Council conclusions of the European Union are not fully quoted. To know what kind of judgment I can make, it is about the interpretation of the motion by the proposers. It is quite clear to me that the operative part is a policy support. In that sense, I see her as a positive motion, but I would like to know exactly two things. Firstly, the statements on the recognition of the Palestinian State by the European Parliament there are related to the negotiations in the same way as in the Netherlands. Secondly, I would like to know whether the comments made today by the Israeli Prime Minister are indeed understood as the one that has just been explained orally, namely as an important step that deserves follow-up. The authors could also think about clarifying that text and making sure that it is updated and fits exactly within what was said in resolution 2014/2964. If that is the case, then I see this motion as a support for policy and I would like to support it with a positive opinion, but I really need to know. I could also imagine that the spokesmen would look at the precise wording.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u186	Both points have already been addressed when I submitted her. As far as the recognition of the Palestinian State is concerned, of course the wording in the EP resolution is longer than in the motion. Otherwise, the motion would be even longer. I do not entirely agree with the Minister that it is linked in the same way as his own wording. It says: in principal recognition of the state and the two-state solution. There is another passage in my mind that must also be negotiated at the same time. This is different from the wording chosen by the Minister, namely that it is being used at a strategic time. It does not contain that literal passage, but I said at the time of the submission: I refer to the resolution as a whole and do not take a word of it away from it. It is also just a statement that that resolution was tabled and adopted in Strasbourg. I hope that explanation will suffice. On that second point, I have also indicated that I welcome the statement by the High Representative today to the Prime Minister or to the Council. the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Israel. So, yes, that's how the Minister reads it. However, my concern about previous statements and the lack of concrete commitment in the coalition agreement is still standing. But on the second point, and indeed on the first, the Minister can certainly interpret it in this way with the explanation I have just given.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u187	Now things are getting even more complicated, because the author is referring again to the considerations of recognition of the Palestinian State. If the motion were "supporting policy," there would be an implicit recognition of the Palestinian State. I do not think that is what the Minister has advocated so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u188	This is always about the interpretation of the author. I think that's the most important thing. I think that should be recorded as well. I can imagine that with regard to the recognition of the Palestinian State, the interpretation is now that which is reflected in a resolution. This concerns a recital. I can also imagine that, with regard to the statement on the Israeli position, it is interpreted as referring to the last remarks made by the Prime Minister. Mr Servaes gave this interpretation only in a statement. The government will then be able to consider the motion to that effect as a policy support.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u189	This motion is a long one and I think it has been a long one. Now we have to get into some kind of double interpretation game, where there's a recital referring to another recital in another parliament... Yes, it's getting a little soup. I'd like to cook some of it. The operative part is very clear: Mogherini, hurry up and give us a plan. Before that there is also a lot of international pressure, which I do not think is entirely in line with the Minister's story tonight. I invite Mr Servaes through you, President, to come back here and say that in the end it is only about Mrs Mogherini...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u190	You do that through me, and so I'm going to intervene. This isn't the place we do that. The Minister has asked: can I read the motion in this way? The applicant replied.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u191	Yeah, but there's no way to cook soup from that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u192	You can take that into account in your assessment of the motion, Mr Ten Broeke.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u193	That's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u194	This is what I think I came to the end of the beanword.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-20-tweedekamer-12.u195	Thank you. Vote on the motions tabled will take place next Tuesday.
