ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u1	I would remind the Chamber that the first term of office was held on 14 April 2015, after which the debate was suspended for personal reasons at the request of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. On 16 May 2015, the Minister for Foreign Affairs already replied to some of the first-term questions by letter. We will now proceed with the government's first-term response. As was announced this morning, Mr De Lange informed me by letter of 1 May 2015 that he has broken all ties with the political party OSF, the Independent Senate Group. He wants to maintain his membership of this Chamber under the name of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. He has informed me that he wishes to participate as an independent member in the continuation of the debate with the Foreign Minister. Mr De Lange is therefore speaking on behalf of the De Lange Group, not on behalf of the OSF, in the continuation of the General European Discussion. I give the floor to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u2	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the members of the First Chamber for the coulance and understanding of the postponement of the first term of the government in the General European Reviews. I really appreciate this. I would also like to thank Members for their first-term input. I have answered some of the questions in writing. I shall begin my speech with a more general consideration. Next, I will address the upcoming EU Presidency of the Netherlands, with some important issues that will concern us in the coming period, such as social Europe, migration, climate and energy. I shall then turn to the citizens' Europe. A number of questions have been raised in the areas of transparency, division of powers and possible treaty changes. Finally, I will address the many questions about the EU's external policy and address a number of individual questions. I will try to answer the questions of the various Members as specifically as possible. I would like to make a few comments on the fact that a number of Members are having a European debate here for the last time. By the way, I am not doing this to avoid any criticism. A number of comments have just been made on Mr De Lange. I would like to thank him for his contribution, not only to this debate but also to many of the debates that had to do with Europe, including my predecessors. Mr De Lange is a very committed parliamentarians, including on the European dossier. He's not afraid to say what it says. In the first term, he's even filed charges. I hope we can answer that sufficiently. Mr De Lange has never lost sight of the human dimension. I think this is very important, including for Europe. There is sometimes criticism that the human dimension is being overlooked. This also applies in a very different way to Mr De Graaf. He has a very impressive career behind him. I can't say much about that. Others can do much better. We are also talking today about the Europe of cities and the urban agenda. The government is very grateful to Mr De Graaf for all the contributions he has made to the debate on Europe. The same applies, of course, to Mr Van der Linden. He is not only Dutch, but also Limburger and European. So he's learned to work with a lot of identities at the same time. I have known him for a long time and I have also learned a lot from him about Europe. I believe that he has been working on Europe in one way or another since 1971. That's a big good. I don't think anyone has a thicker address book or a larger European network. On behalf of the Dutch Government, I can say that Mr Van der Linden has inspired many of us with his European contributions. The Senate will lose a great European at heart. I would have liked to have said something about Klaas de Vries, but he cannot be here tonight. In the direction of his replacement, I would like to say very briefly that someone who is not here today because he is the chairman of the electoral committee at the European Court of Human Rights shows that he has a great deal of knowledge and skills in Europe. He has been a spokesperson for many years on foreign policy, both in the Second and in the First Chamber, and has thus meant a great deal for the European debate. You have all said, although you have different political views, that Europe is a community of values and that we do not stand with our backs to Europe. That's very important. The same applies to this Dutch government. I was in European Councils again today and yesterday. We stand for our cause. We are also at the heart of Europe and we want to be there. That's where we're gonna stay, too. I think that the Netherlands as a larger of the smaller still has a leading role to play. Europe is indeed more than market and currency. In Europe, trust is essential. In addition, we do have a problem. That is why I want to start with the new start, very practical, without too much consideration. The European Union started in 2015 with a newly elected European Parliament, a new Commission, a new permanent President of the European Council and a new High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. These new players are now faced with the major challenges you have all identified, such as the waning confidence of citizens in the European Union. Several groups have mentioned this, both from the left and from the right. I think they're right about that. There is also a tendency for counter forces to grow stronger and stronger. They do not necessarily have to be opposed to the European project. I am thinking, for example, of the trend towards regionalisation and decentralisation. These things can in themselves relate to federative thinking. I believe that Mr Van der Linden has also pointed this out. Fierce thinking is not something of the great Brussels state. It is a federation in the definition of powers, a clear definition of powers. In these times of discussions about a possible Brexit or a Grexit, which is highly speculated on in the European Councils, there is a crisis of confidence. There are centrifugal forces in Europe. Europe will therefore have to prove itself. It will have to prove that it is more than the sum of its parts and is also part of a community of states. The cabinet stands for a Europe that achieves effective results and concentrates on its core tasks. I'm talking about job growth and safety. Europe must help to defend our interests and values in a changing world. That's essential. We will be discussing foreign policy later, but we know that we have agreed on a number of key issues. Think of not using force and sovereignty. This is the subject of serious infringements. We are also dealing with non-state actors, with extremist ideologies that also affect our standards and values. That is another element that Europe must focus on. In addition to realism, there must also be idealism. Idealism must also be accompanied by realism, in a world that has become more dangerous. We've got to get to the wind. We've got to get to the wind. No naivety fits in with this. We need to focus on these three main points and work towards restoring confidence. It is a good thing that the European Union is moving in the right direction in economic terms. The growth continues. Unemployment is declining in many Member States. Of course Greece is the exception. I shall, of course, come back to that in detail. There is also a social problem, but in itself the signals are more positive than they were a while ago. This also has to do with a number of important European decisions. At the moment, the government does not choose to change the treaty. I shall come back to that on the basis of a number of questions. In our view, such a change takes too long and the outcome is too uncertain. This opens Pandora's box and there are great risks to it. However, there are also arguments for a change. I'll get back to you on that. In order to gain confidence, it is important that there are concrete results and that improvements are made. A specific agenda has been set up for this purpose. It is not just a general discussion with fine principles. The three central bodies of European architecture, the European Commission, the European Council, which is also directly involved, and the European Parliament, have committed themselves to five priorities. The European Commission has done this in its work programme. The first is a Union of job creation and competitiveness. We're talking about the Juncker Plan, the Four Presidents Report and the strengthening of the digital market. The second point is a Union that teaches all citizens to stand up for themselves and protects them. That sounds nice. These include labour mobility, social protection and the fight against tax avoidance. The third point, I think, is very important: going to an Energy Union and a forward-looking climate policy. That means affordable, safe and green energy. The two key concepts are the Paris negotiations, on which Europe adopted its position at the end of last year, and the first steps towards an Energy Union. The fourth point is a Union of freedom, security and justice. Those are pretty words, too. These issues have been discussed in recent days: migration in all its complexity, crime and the fight against terrorism. The last point is the Union as a strong global player. I really think that we should maximise our influence, that we should be a stronger partner and that we should develop security and defence cooperation. On that fifth point, the Netherlands will also make a strong commitment. It's been different. The Netherlands is the engine we have been discussing with Mrs Mogherini in recent days in order to achieve a reinforcement. These five items form the strategic agenda. Of course, these are developed in legislative programmes, Green Papers and the like. To all those who say 'then they start legislation in the European area', I say directly: that is part of an objective that we want to achieve. That is quite different from the fact that there should be legislation for everything. I believe that the number of legislative proposals should be reduced. Those proposals should really be focused on the main issues. Furthermore, we really need to move towards a simplification of the agenda. This point plan, this agenda for the Commission in this legislature, has been generally supported by Parliament and the Council. The State of the Union has been the first since the European Union arrived. To quote the motto of the Italian Presidency of the Council: it is a new start, a Europe that restores confidence, that provides for its citizens, and that stands for the protection of individual freedoms, also against extremism and radicalisation. Everyone, I think, too, who may be a little more sceptical about Europe, will think that there should be real cooperation in some of these areas, for example on the protection of freedoms, on intelligence services in the field of foreign terrorist fighters and on how we can learn lessons from each other with regard to the prevention of this problem. Then there is the Presidency. Next year at this time, the Netherlands will be in the middle of the European Presidency. What do we want to do with that? If I'm being honest, we want to do what's just been established. It is a different presidency than it was ten years ago, before the Treaty of Lisbon. Then, as countries, we all had our own hobbies, so to speak. There is something positive about that, because it will allow you to put your own stamp on the Presidency. That's nice for your citizens, too. But let's face it, I don't think anyone's waiting for that right now. The real issue is that the points I have just mentioned are being taken forward. The Netherlands, like every President, obviously wants to be an honour broker in the Council, between the Council, the Commission and the European Parliament, and above all for the citizens. As I said, the role has changed during the European Presidency. The Councils of my policy area, Foreign Affairs, are now, for example, chaired by the High Representative. There is a permanent President of the European Council. And the role of the European Parliament has increased considerably over the past period. The success of the Dutch Presidency will therefore be assessed on the basis of how we perform in Brussels. Can we move on to important legislation, without, by the way, thinking only of legislation? After all, we also want to work on the simplification agenda. To anyone who wishes to make a comment on this, I say that this is something other than a deregulation agenda. The simplification agenda also has to do with the huge amount of rules and bureaucracy. The criticism, which may sometimes be exaggerated, is partly justified. We have a large Parliament, with a lot of Commissioners and with a lot of countries, who want to take care of a lot. It is sometimes a good thing to separate the chaff from the wheat and to look at whether we really need to put to the vote rules that were already on the table fifteen years ago, which have always failed and which then remain on the list again and again. I believe that there is an important task for the Dutch Government to carry this forward together with the Vice-President of the European Commission, Mr Timmermans. We therefore wish to move forward on a number of points during the Presidency. The precise debate on this is still unclear, because we do not yet know exactly where the decision-making is to take place on these five points. I can imagine a few things. For the necessary strengthening of European peace and security policy, we will probably have to align the new European strategy. That's not unimportant. It is not a strategy of a piece of paper; if Europe wants to play a greater role in the world, it will really be about what instruments it has left and how we will apply them per region. This will also have to do with the climate and energy issues. We'll be there right after Paris. Hopefully that will be a success. It is, of course, a question of how this will work for our own national energy agreement, but also for the Energy Union. What is going to be the debate on the internal market is difficult to say, but when we talk about an agenda for employment, I think there is a great deal to gain from strengthening the internal market. Let there be no misunderstanding: there is not really a single market yet. This certainly applies to services, but also to other elements. For example, when it comes to the digital agenda, the government hopes to make a dent. I do not think there should be any misunderstanding that the fourth point of the five priorities, namely the huge challenge of the humanitarian drama of unmanaged migration, is an integrated response that will certainly not be completed next year. There are too many aspects to this. As far as the content is concerned, therefore, the cabinet attaches importance to focus. We are only focusing on the key issues: a Union of innovation, sustainable growth and jobs; I believe that this remains the core of our work, which also links with social actors. A number of questions have been asked about this. First of all, I would like to comment on the budget. At the end of this year there will be an evaluation of the own resources decision. Questions about the budget have rightly been raised by the spokesmen. We've been dealing with after-charges all the time. That's not nice, to say the least. A lot of people don't think it's transparent enough either. I'll get back to you on that. In any case, we want to involve the Second and First Chambers in the discussion on how to do this better. I think that together with other countries, we should make a dent on this. In view of a number of previous proposals in the House of Representatives, as we did a year and a half ago, we want to organise something with the national parliaments, the Commission and the European Parliament at the end of the year. The House of Representatives has said that there must be a budget freeze. We are going to look again at whether that is possible or not, because we are no longer talking about what kind of summits we can come up with. However, it is important that we clarify this with the First and Second Chambers. That budget has to change. There will be an evaluation at the beginning of next year, which is now being made. There will also be an evaluation of own resources. Does that work best as we do now, with VAT and the various other elements of own resources, or can we simplify that? I therefore believe that this is really important, together with the Parliament, which has the right to budget as far as the national government and the role of the national government in Europe are concerned. In view of the criticism we have heard about this, I think it is a priority. We want to strongly encourage the role of parliaments. I will record that, as we did again today at the General Affairs Council. I also expect this to be an element in the debate with the English on a Brexit. Perhaps I should say a few words about this, because questions have been asked about it. It is clear that the elections were won by the Conservative Party. Mr Cameron has a plan for how he looks at Europe and wants a referendum. So we will have to wait and see what he comes up with. There is, I think, a strategic interest for the Netherlands, and also for the other European countries, that the United Kingdom remains in Europe for all kinds of reasons. We were also the country that England wanted most to be there at the time. But that does not mean that it must be at the expense of everything, for example, of Treaty change or of important principles for which we stand in Europe. One element might be interesting, because the United Kingdom is expected to be committed to strengthening national parliaments. The House spokesmen also have ideas about this. On the one hand, better use can be made of the existing possibilities of parliamentary involvement at national level. On the other hand, existing instruments can be used more actively at European level, through enhanced cooperation with other national parliaments. I also refer to European Monetary Union, of which the English are not members. I would also mention the enhanced cooperation and exchange of information between the national parliaments and the European Parliament, including in the context of COSAC and the Article 13 conference. We like to hang out with you. I'm also very curious to know what ideas are on your side. In any case, it is important to work together on organising a COSAC event on the importance and serious influence of the role of national parliaments in European decision-making and on the importance of good cooperation between government and parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u3	The Minister said that the United Kingdom is strategically important, but he also said: not at any price. Does this mean that the Netherlands will in no way help to undermine the existing elements in the treaties, such as the free movement of persons?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u4	No, the free movement of persons is a sacred principle for us. I think it is important to note here that we really need to wait and see what the British Government is doing. Nor are we prepared with a bowl in the sense of: you ask and we turn. All I have said is that we have a strategic interest, as is the case for many European countries, in keeping with the United Kingdom, but it is of course their decision. If they come up with ideas, that's fine with me, but we don't need treaty changes right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u5	Indeed, the United Kingdom remains involved in so far as it participates. It has so many opt-outs and so many special positions, for example in the euro group, that we are already dealing with two speeds in this respect, and we are lucky to see another result in Scotland that may be counterweight. I agree with the Minister that it is of strategic importance but not at any price. This means that the choice or sharing must be for the United Kingdom and that it must not always take exceptional positions. I think this is going to be one of the most important elements in the discussion; if there is a leading group and the United Kingdom participates, it must also participate fully and not constantly stand on the brakes, take exceptions and fall back on some sort of free trade idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u6	I think we have a number of interests in common with the United Kingdom. These are European interests, sometimes trade and economic interests. It will certainly be clear to Mr van der Linden that we do not have the same tradition as the United Kingdom, given our position as founder of the European Union, the European Commission, the European communities. Nor do we have that tight transatlantic historical relationship, politically but not necessarily in the'special relationship' that existed at the time. So in that sense, we have some more continental traditions. That is our history of cooperation. England has joined, partly because the Netherlands wanted to. I think I would like to agree with you that this is the essence: the strategic importance of bringing the United Kingdom in. Honestly, I think so, too, but who am I to say something about that? It is in the interests of the citizens of the United Kingdom. They'll decide. Perhaps it is true that such a decision will be taken at some point in time, in the sense of clarifying the position of the United Kingdom. I sometimes worry about those opt-outs. For example, when it comes to the whole debate on asylum, it is very easy to say straight away that we do not have much to do with it. That is not something on which you can easily solve a common problem. There's that opt-out, but nobody's waiting for a lot of opt-outs. This is separate from the question of flexibility and the leading groups that I would like to comment on later. I think Mr Van der Linden and I are thinking in the same direction. As far as the cabinet is concerned, at least now there is no change in the treaty. By the way, Mr Van der Linden himself has asked for a treaty amendment. He'd like a treaty change. We don't want it, just not to open a Pandora box like that. Treaty change means that there must first be a discussion on what the amendment is about. There is a risk that Member States will come up with very different wish lists with a total revision of the treaties in many areas as possible. I am thinking, for example, of Italy in terms of the desire for fiscal capacity and the desire for even more opt-outs. Treaty change would also lead to the European Union focusing and focusing on the problems I have just mentioned for a long time, but talking endlessly about treaty change.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u7	I have another question for the Minister about his appreciation of the elections in Britain. I followed the elections in England from Ireland where we were on vacation. It is then very interesting to see how Irish Ireland is also a euro area country watching what is happening in England and what interests are at stake for them. We are talking about Ireland itself, but above all Northern Ireland. Then you see that the Scots played a very dominant role in the elections in England. Wouldn't there also be a countervailing power in the UK's internal structure and relations between Ireland, England and Scotland, which could ultimately limit the wishes and demands of the British and make the Brexit a much more limited discussion than we think now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u8	We are now going to speculate a little bit, and that is always difficult for a foreign minister. We are really waiting for what the British Government will come up with. I just don't know yet. There has been an election campaign. Very good, that's how it is, that's democratic. The Conservative Party has won convincingly and wants to hold a referendum and negotiate with Europe. It's all possible. The Netherlands has taken a number of steps, but is also, of course, willing to discuss them if there are any issues. For example, the role of the national parliament and social fraud. There are all kinds of things you can think about, but for the moment we are taking a wait-and-see attitude, perhaps also because of the analysis that you are partly right to make; you can imagine that there are forces that say: we do want to belong to Europe and perhaps we should not increase the demands too high. It is also well known, of course, that we in Europe are faced with more centrifugal forces, and that is why such a Pandorabox will have risks for Europe as a whole and for the way in which the United Kingdom would then belong. But again, I can't anticipate it now. We are, of course, open to discussion with this important partner country and we have certain principles, one of which is the free movement of persons.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u9	I didn't plead for a treaty change. I have asked whether we should rule out a treaty amendment when it is generally recognised that more transfer of sovereignty is necessary. We have seen in the past that it was very difficult. In the case of the euro, we have seen that separate 'treaties' have been concluded within a limited group. The question is whether you should go through that trail. We can now see that there is still too much freedom in the views of certain Member States, even within the euro group. If we have to transfer more sovereignty in order to prevent Europe from being irrelevant in the future, then my question is, not my argument, whether it can do so without a treaty amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u10	I think so. In any case, I have indicated to you a risk of treaty amendment, regardless of its desirability. For even if you consider it desirable, you will also have to hope that it will then go in a direction that is also acceptable, for example, to the Dutch Parliament and the Dutch Government. I see the risk of a Pandorabox, where the energy focuses on something that I do not think should focus on. Let me give you some other arguments. In the 1990s and at the beginning of this millennium, the question was raised as to whether EMU and the EPU should not be linked and whether monetary union could not function in that context alone. Anyone who follows the debates among economists, politicians and the population knows that this is a key question. Now we know one thing for sure: it was not chosen at the time. The question then is whether you should do that now. Under the pressure of the crisis in EMU, regardless of its causes, fiscal policy has been strengthened. Economic policy is more coordinated, while a banking union has been established. In recent years, therefore, a lot has been built. As far as the cabinet is concerned, it is therefore first established how the European Union can function better within the existing frameworks. In the opinion of the Cabinet, there is sufficient room for this within the framework of the existing treaties. With regard to the Stability and Growth Pact, Member States must comply with the commitments made and comply with the commitments now that they have been ratified by the Member States. Individual countries therefore do not have the option of blocking compliance with the obligations. You can criticise the choice of an intergovernmental instrument, which is a very legitimate criticism, rather than a Community method, but that does not alter its binding nature. I really want to stress that 'intergovernmental' is not 'non-binding'. That's a really different matter. EMU agreements do not necessarily need to be made more binding, but above all they need to be better used and respected. What you think is the right economic policy comes up for discussion. You can have differences of opinion on this, and they have also emerged in Europe. Also, democratic legitimacy is not compromised, because ratification requires the consent of all individual parliaments. In addition, the Netherlands remains in favour of further optimising democratic legitimacy within existing EMU, for example through enhanced cooperation between national parliaments and strengthened discussion between national parliaments and governments on EMU issues, for example before and after Councils. We are also prepared to look further at this in the context of developments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u11	I agree with the comments and objections of any treaty amendment, but an intergovernmental agreement does give us a great deal of freedom. The fact that France has failed to fulfil its obligations in the intergovernmental agreement for thirteen years is one of the proofs. And besides, I just have to look at Greece. In other words, should we not do what we have done with monetary union and therefore make it much more binding, but with regard to economic union? Of course, we'll get the report from the four presidents. The Netherlands has already contributed. I am very curious to see what has been the contribution of the Netherlands to the last Council on this issue. We're gonna get the top in June. The CDA's view is that it is precisely the leading group that we need to strengthen and prevent the non-committality of some players in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u12	I listen with interest to what the Minister and colleague Van der Linden say. Of course, the common dilemma is at stake: where should we go with Europe? Should we go to economic cooperation? There is still a lot to be gained. Or should we move towards a more politically integrated Europe, with more central control and thus less control of national parliaments? That is, of course, the key question we are faced with. My assessment is that the willingness to transfer powers to Europe has been considerably reduced in many countries. That seems to me to be the reality of this moment. In order to call for a stronger economic Europe, i.e. a stronger political Europe and all that much more, without facing up to that reality, it seems to me at least a little premature in the light of the developments of recent years. I would like to hear the Minister's views on this, but also those of Mr Van der Linden. Although I think I know it, it is also interesting.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u13	I hear two very different views here about how to move forward. On the one hand, Mr De Lange says: we live in a time characterised by certain converging forces and a sense of national populations that the national state as such should continue to play a role, especially in terms of budget law and core competences that we should not project directly at European level, even if it might have some economic logic. On the other hand, the logic is that you have a monetary union and that you must have economic policy as well. That may not be so desirable at the moment by all kinds of people, but you will still have to strive for it. I think that we in Europe have a system that is not so easy to classify in one of these camps. That's not so bad, either. We have to listen to the signs from the different populations. You should not force further integration at a time when political support for this is very understandable. That doesn't mean you're standing there with your hands in your hair. Everyone understands that political sovereignty is also relative when your markets are international. In this dilemma, the government is taking the following line: a treaty change is now not being discussed because of some of the issues relating to the Pandorabox and the fact that there are already some powers that are mandatory, but intergovernmental. I would also like to say to Mr van der Linden that the Stability and Growth Pact has included the objective of integrating this Treaty into the Community framework. So that's the direction that's in there. That in itself is our preference, but it is a time element and also the credibility of politics. There must also be a democratic basis for this. I talked about the variation in membership in the context of Brexit. Of course you have all kinds of ways of flexibility: that everyone picks out the cherries nicely and lets the rest pay or lets the rest bear the responsibility. In that sense, the country versus Europe are illusions. There has rightly been talk of correct delimitation of powers. Flexible forms of cooperation often act as a driving force for further cooperation, provided that joint responsibility and integrity are not undermined. They are also an expression in themselves. Europe is a Europe of different traditions and of different countries. It's okay to work together in different ways. There's nothing against that. There is nothing against the fact that some countries are ahead of us and that some countries do not yet want to participate in a number of things. What are the consequences of increasing flexibilisation for the European Union as a whole? Snipping, aren't you? That question was put to me in the first term and was also submitted to the AIV. Are there any further institutional guarantees, for example, to preserve the integrity of the European Union system? What about the relationship between flexibility through intergovernmental means and flexibility within the framework of the Treaties? That is actually what our request for advice is about. In itself, we are not adversely affected by these developments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u14	Let's talk about Europe. Of course, if you live in Europe, you cannot stand your back on Europe. No one's arguing that either. Looking at the policies of the European Central Bank, it is very difficult to say that this policy is good for Europe as a whole, for Europe as a whole as a concept. There are enormous differences in the impact of what the European Central Bank is doing for the different countries in Europe, outside of the mandate it has once been given to the ECB. So we cannot just talk about Europe in its entirety. We need to make this very clear, and we need to pay close attention to the specific positions of the different countries. Several of these countries are in extremely difficult circumstances. I would like to hear the Minister speak about this with the same nuance as he did about political and economic union.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u15	I think Mr De Lange is right about that. There is a European Union that has different speeds: in terms of economic development, in terms of economic tradition and its position within the European economy. There are also some important elements of economic policy that remain national. There are also some elements that we have democratically decided to set up at European level, for example the European Central Bank. There's plenty of discussion about that. That is right, and that is only right. Is quantitative easing right or wrong? The Chamber knows the discussions. That's why I said we should go to a sober contract. It was said: what is a sober contract? I think this is essential when we see that there is a breach of confidence with Europe in a number of areas. And also when there are on the other hand a number of challenges that we all face, such as migration, the situation with the Russian Federation, the international economy, competition from other major powers, the discussion on how to have a green economy in Europe and how to make our energy less dependent on a number of countries together. Enhanced cooperation on a number of points is therefore essential. Of course, that will not always work equally on countries. Let me give you an example. Let's talk about it. We are now discussing Greece. Apart from what one individually thinks, whether the policy of the Central Bank has been good, whether the policy of conditionality in terms of loans is justified or not, all countries, except one, have the same view of the fact that, if you lend money, you also have to meet certain conditions. It is also important that you recognise good governance in other countries as something that needs to be improved. This is completely separate from the international and European institutions. I really think we need to strike a balance. That's the agenda of good governance. That is not a soft or technocratic agenda. It means that countries can rely on each other, that there is bankruptcy legislation that you can rely on as an investor and that there is labour market legislation that ensures that employees cannot be treated in such a way that, if they go international, they are exploited. If a statistical agency works elsewhere, I am also saying this in the direction of the PVV group, which is asking questions about this. That's the agenda on which you can continue to work. If there is no trust between Member States, I do not think that more far-reaching Community ways of amending the Treaty are the most desirable at the moment. The instruments outside the two Union Treaties are a reality. The Schengen Convention and the Fiscal Compact were concluded outside the existing European Union Treaties. The Schengen rules have now been integrated into the EU acquis. The objective is to make the Fiscal Compact part of the acquis. It's not quite or-or here either. The Netherlands recognises the existing reality. The instruments outside the two Union Treaties reflect the diversity between Member States, with not all Member States pursuing the same deepening or broadening of cooperation between them at the same time and the non-limited Union powers. The Netherlands is committed to ensuring the integrity and coherence of the Union as a whole. Snapping and complex institutional structures must be avoided as far as possible. I am concerned about that, with a number of members of this Chamber. It must remain a little transparent for everyone. Even if you get a lot of opt-outs, which we are not in principle in favour of, and although a number of countries want to go further than other countries, that is not a problem in itself: the integrity of the basic principles of the Union and the democratic legitimacy must be maintained. This must be based on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u16	Mr Van der Linden asked about the possibilities of enhanced cooperation and leading groups. The Minister comes up with an example in which Member States outside the framework of the EU Treaty are going to shape enhanced cooperation, with fiscalisations and the Schengen Treaty. Is that really necessary? Why can't a group of Member States that want to go beyond other Member States do so within the enhanced cooperation? Isn't that what the Treaty provides a basis for? You will then retain the guarantees provided by the EU Treaty. This will prevent the erosion of the principles of the Union Treaty. Why isn't that happening?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u17	The Dutch Government is also of the opinion that it is by far preferable to do so. The Schengen Convention has brought us a great deal, both in terms of security and opportunities for cross-border activities and freedom of movement, which all citizens really want. You have to consider whether you are waiting for that if not everyone wants it within the Union Treaties. Or do you say what the Dutch Government has said: let us ensure that this is integrated into the EU acquis? That's what's happening now. The same applies to the Fiscal Compact. Mrs Strik's basic institution is that of the Dutch Government. You're gonna have to weigh up what's more important to you at some point. Do you have to stop some countries that want to go further in the field of the environment, energy, or free movement, because at that time not everyone agrees to do so within the framework of the Union? I think you should make that assessment on a case-by-case basis. In doing so, I would immediately prefer the priority given to Mrs Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u18	The possibilities of enhanced cooperation are embedded in the treaty itself, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u19	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u20	If you do not want to wait until everyone is ready, it can be done within the framework of the Union. That was my point. If that is the case, is the Dutch Government going to make an effort to do it in this form and not on the basis of a treaty outside?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u21	Preferably. That would be my answer. Then I come to a number of issues relating to competence issues and the institutions. After that, I will deal with more substantive issues. I refer to energy, environment, social and foreign policy. I have already informed the Chamber that we wish to continue the role of parliaments in relation to the institutions. Mr Elzinga asked me how I look at the Danish example of working with a clear mandate from Parliament for meetings in Brussels. Does such a mandate not also contribute to legitimacy, efficiency and responsibility towards citizens? I think that the cabinet's commitment to meetings in Brussels, in the Netherlands more than in any other country, Denmark, could make one more point of doubt, which would be aligned with Parliament. With this, the Netherlands is rightly far ahead of Europe. This has been done since the first phase in which the BNC sheet is drawn up. This is the starting point for Dutch engagement in EU negotiations. We have chosen to do so from a democratic point of view. There are risks, because you immediately show everyone where the Netherlands wants to go. The game of negotiation is known, especially if you have 27 colleagues. You have to think about that sometimes, but in that assessment you have to be clear. As soon as there are substantive changes to the dossier which go outside the framework of the Dutch commitment, further consultation is needed. The cabinet will then return to Parliament. This is done through regular correspondence, annotated agendas, reports from Councils or ad hoc from the cabinet or parliament. That's important. The same applies to the disclosure of documents. I'll say something about that later. I shall return to the Presidency. Mr De Vries asked for a public campaign. We very much agree with that, but that is not easy. A public campaign from the government is always a dilemma. I am now also formally responsible for it under state law, but at the time I looked with some interest at the Europe campaign, which is quite important. I will not judge that, but there are other ways to approach the citizen. That is essential, because if there is a breach of trust, we need to think about why there is one. This calls for information and dialogue in which the public authorities seek a targeted response to the specific concerns and interests of citizens. We do a lot of things that everyone does and that are important. I refer to the Presidency's website, social media, civil society organisations and businesses, education and EU Back to School. This is also being worked on with Mr Bussemaker. That is also made more specific. In the first place, Mr De Vries asked me whether I would also do something about the problem in large cities with which people are concerned. The answer is yes. Specific meetings are organised under the urban agenda, just under the Dutch Presidency. That is specific to our Presidency. It is about the problems in the big cities. I am referring not only to the problems of large cities such as the big integrators where you invest more easily and where people live close to each other, where there are all kinds of surfing, but also to the social problems of cities. The varieties in terms of urban agenda priorities reflect the demand of the cities themselves. I can't anticipate that yet. This is now being discussed with the cities in the Netherlands, also in other European countries. It is expected that themes related to employment, urban backwardness, such as social division or unemployment, will be addressed. The Netherlands is committed to a number of concrete instruments to implement the urban agenda. I am not going into detail at this point, but it has to do with very specific instruments that Europe has and which can be used much more for urban issues, such as Life Horizon 2020. Cities and regions must be given the opportunity to make full use of the funds for this purpose. This is an important issue with regard to the role of Parliament, the public campaign and the urban agenda. It is also about transparency. During the Presidency, the Netherlands will in principle follow the European agenda. On the agenda is the Council's participation in a mandatory transparency register. We are very much in favour of this. In the way in which the Netherlands will chair the Council, the Netherlands can also implement transparency, for example by minimising the number of limité documents "sorry" for the term "sorry." The government is also committed to increasing transparency in European decision-making during the negotiation of an interinstitutional agreement on better law-making. There are also other ways of seeing the whole issue of transparency in Europe. We recently reported it to the Chamber in a letter. It also provides a way forward with certain initiatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u22	I had asked questions about this and, of course, I saw the letter sent by the Minister to the Chamber. I was concerned with an evaluation of how the new system is now being handled. In principle, things are public and the Member States are mentioned by name in the limité documents, unless that is not considered appropriate. In his letter, the Minister states that it is difficult to measure, because we do not have a benchmark and we do not know how it has been done before and how it is done now. I thought that answer was a little weird. Surely you can have an investigation into the situations in which Member States are not mentioned and whether that is indeed appropriate? Surely you can examine how to deal with the criterion that it should be appropriate? It seems very important to me to investigate this quickly now. The Council must quickly decide whether this is a good way and whether it does not encourage abuse that things are deemed to be appropriate or inappropriate rather quickly. Otherwise, you undermine the principle of transparency and also the ruling and judgment of the Court in this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u23	I understand your point and I think that is rightly a matter of concern. I do notice that it is very complicated to conclude coalitions on this point. We are at the forefront of this in the Netherlands. We are very much in favour of transparency, rightly, from a democratic point of view and from a control point of view. This is seen in very few countries, and that does not make it easier. I would, however, like to assure you that I will have that looked at again and that I will inform the Chamber about it, because I want to be clear myself. However, I say, not to dampen expectations, that I do notice that it is always a huge battle to do so. Member States have different views on what transparency should be. Should it be transparency of the result? Is it transparency of input? We would like transparency of the whole process, but for a lot of Member States it will be a kind of transparency about everything, which in their view reduces democratic legitimacy. After all, it is the result that is being checked, either in advance or afterwards. The Netherlands has a different tradition, which is, by the way, quite criticiseable, but the Dutch Government is committed to what Mrs Strik also stands for. I'd be happy to take a closer look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u24	Mrs Strik, I would like to make a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u25	I would like to thank the Minister very much for that, and I would like to say to him that you have the Court's judgment behind you, and you can use it, and later on the Presidency too. I have high expectations anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u26	Thank you. Mr. Chairman. Given the time available, I would like to address a number of specific policy issues. I just said something about social problems in cities. I will come back to social policy later. I would now like to comment on the issue of migration, because many questions have been asked about it. I also have some points to make about this. Perhaps, in the light of current events, it is important to outline what the European Union is doing now. I think everyone has seen the dramas in the Mediterranean, regardless of whether they were announced dramas or whether people were completely surprised. Apart from that question, these tragedies have led to European action. I think that's right. That action should have been taken to my liking earlier. The only way to address a very complex problem such as this is an integrated approach. That sounds good, but what is an integrated approach? I would like to say that it has a number of elements, and the European Commission has now put forward a first proposal in the form of a ten-point plan. I do not know why it should always be a ten-point plan, but at least there is a point plan on how to get that huge international problem into the hands of the public. Managing migration is one of the most difficult issues. Just leaving it to the market leads to the enormous dramas we have seen recently, to building smuggling cartels, to crime, and I have seen this myself in my time in North Africa, the undermining of national states and anarchist relations. There are three or four points of interest. Firstly, we have said that we in Europe will have to agree on fair compliance with rules. That means Dublin, for example. There are now countries in which asylum seekers, refugees or economic migrants enter without being controlled by the way in which that has been agreed. So that is something that is not acceptable. The second is that a system of solidarity will have to be established in Europe. The Dutch Government does not yet have a position on this, because the criteria will be further developed. That is independent of the question of what numbers they are and whether they are people from outside or inside. In any case, it is a problem that requires solidarity both outside and within Europe. That is what the debate is about in Europe. We've seen it the last few days. France and Germany differ on, for example, the distribution within Europe. Do you have to or don't you? Would you like to make that mandatory or not? The Dutch Government is also considering this. This will be discussed in greater detail in the Cabinet. I think it is an advantage in itself that this has now come and that Europe has taken responsibility in this sense, including for its foreign policy aspect. Europe is often criticised and said: they have all kinds of crises at the borders, but when it comes to it, they do not act or act too late. That will not change overnight because of the fact that we have the transaction costs of unit, with its 28's. However, I believe that much progress has been made this week to at least disrupt the smugglers. Let me make that very clear. It is not a military action against refugees or to stop refugees. This is a mandate that should be based on a Security Council resolution on the disruption of smugglers. A core problem is where these people come from. Anyone who studies this issue, knows that it requires a very specific country approach: to stop migration, but also to give people opportunities, to ensure that there is work. These are all longer-term problems, so in the short term something will have to be done. There are four elements: European solidarity, further criteria that are needed to ensure that everyone participates in a fair way; it cannot be the case that a few countries are given all the responsibilities, because that is not going to work, and the need to include a very important foreign policy and security policy element. That is what is happening now, and I think that is positive. Anyone who's gonna tell me the devil's in the details is right. There are international conventions, there must be cooperation with the UNHCR, there is the Security Council, but I think it is important that an important strategic choice has now been made. A number of questions have been asked about this effective migration policy. I see Mrs Strik walking to the interrupting microphone and I think she is going to repeat those questions now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u27	I am not going to repeat anything, because you are now commenting on the Commission's proposals of 13 May. You say that the devil is in the details, so the point is that there is now a reversal, that there is recognition of urgency and that something must be done, including in the area of solidarity. I agree with you very much. That is why I believe that Commissioner Timmermans needs our support and that he deserves it with his proposals, quite apart from the details. You say that the cabinet is going to study exactly what is going on and that it is going to discuss all this, but you can already see that the basis of support is crumbling. That is not obvious. France is quitting, Hungary is quitting. Do you see how important it is that the Dutch Government is going to be hard on this, that it fully supports Timmermans in this and that it is not talking about a decimal figure, but says: we should go this way and Timmermans deserves support and we are going to try to achieve that support in the EU?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u28	Maybe I should correct that. It is a Commission proposal in which the Vice-President is also part of the ideas. It is, of course, also about the Commissioner for Migration and the High Representative. Apart from that, there is a Commission proposal. I have just said that the Dutch Government is in favour of an integrated approach being proposed. We also discussed it in the Council of Foreign Ministers and in the Council of Ministers for Security and Justice, and then it was adopted at the European Summit. You can say we shouldn't look behind the comma, but I think this is a little too simple. It has nothing to do with the fact that we do not want to support the Commission, but I think there really should be significant clarification on a number of points. Let me give you an example. If you think solidarity in Europe should be shared fairly, there is an element of solidarity within Europe and solidarity with people from outside Europe. You will have to make very clear arrangements for a system of free movement of persons. How is that supposed to work? That is a real question. If people go to one country, they could immediately travel to another country and the distribution effect is gone. That is a real point. The fact is that as much as possible you have to make sure that bridges are built between the different countries. That is the work of European cooperation. I think it is too early to say that the French have dropped out. I don't know. I think everyone's getting a little positioned right now. I heard something about Franco-German cooperation. The Netherlands is also in the middle of that debate. I cannot anticipate the Dutch position, because that is what the cabinet as a whole is about. However, we have said that this is an important integrated policy. We're working on it positively, but the devil's in the details. This has to do with the effectiveness of the policy. We cannot go back and see if the four elements are loose sand and are not connected. That is the approach of the cabinet and that means that the First Chamber still has to wait for a detailed position. That's not gonna take very long. The agenda has now been put forward. It's not about nothing either. Let us not forget that this is the political debate of the first order in Europe. What do we think about integration and immigration? What is the role of refugees? What does solidarity mean? Are there any people who really have the illusion that you can solve this nationally? Happy birthday, but that's not gonna work. So it's about something. I think it's a good start now. Let us give time for the political debate in each country to ensure that it has an acceptable end for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u29	Finally, Mrs Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u30	I'm making the call because you've seen so far that no proposal has been made and that it's always been noncommittal and voluntary. As a result, this solidarity did not end up in any way. Of course, it has yet to be worked out in detail, but I think it is extremely important that this proposal should include the farmer and that it should be proactively supported by the Member States.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u31	Maybe a little correction. Apart from the question of whether you agree with the decision, I find it very striking that the Foreign Ministers have taken a decision on an international security action within three weeks. It is not military action in a narrow sense, it is precisely about preventing those people from drowning and disrupting the business model of the smugglers. Fortunately, many countries in Africa are also working on this, see what is happening in Ethiopia now. I think that went pretty fast anyway. Once again, the Dutch Government, of course, looks constructively at these other points and will then have to define its policy on the elements. That is something that will have to be discussed in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u32	The Minister himself referred to the free movement of persons. That is one of the fundamental rights of the individual in Europe. If we now foresee endless discussions about the distribution of the influxes from North Africa and the Middle East, I am surprised that it may eventually lead to a quoting and a division between the countries, but that these people will have the opportunity to move freely into Europe once they have been admitted. Isn't that true? Then I'd like to hear that from the Minister. I don't think we can stick them in the country where we put them in the first place. So my question is whether they will eventually end up in the countries with a strong economy where there are the most opportunities?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u33	I think that this is a real point in itself and that it is something that we need to settle further. A number of Eastern European countries are already saying that Europe can say that they must accept refugees, but that these people do not want to live in their country at all. The question then is how to arrange that. I'd like to add one thing. Maybe that's good for the tone of the debate. We are dealing here with international humanitarian tragedies. Think of the war in Syria and the tragedies in Libya. I worked in West Africa myself for a while. Of course, Europe cannot solve all that. Let us therefore have a real debate on it. We shouldn't say we shouldn't talk about it and we should all do it because we're so good for the world. No, there is a real amount of people fleeing their fate and we in Europe have a responsibility for how we deal with it. There are a number of dilemmas. They are very real dilemmas, for example the point Mr De Graaf just mentioned. How are you gonna do that? One point is also how you handle an operation like Triton. You know the discussion: you want to save people, but at the same time you don't want it to work in a way that ultimately costs more victims. These are rather complicated situations that have to do with the major conflicts in the world. This includes a foreign political responsibility for Europe. The conflict in Syria...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u34	Mrs. Strik, we're not gonna make any interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u35	I would like to make a nuance in the debate on freedom of movement. If people enter somewhere and get a status, they should not immediately settle in another state. This can only be done after five years, if they acquire a long-term resident status or the nationality of the country in question. That's really not one-two-three, Mr. De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u36	But what's five years on a human life? Those people are born in a refugee camp in Africa. Those five years are nothing. People sometimes spend 10, 20, 30 years of their lives in a camp. If they're looking for a better future at some point, a common motivation for migration, they're willing to take those five years for granted and end up where they want to be. The debate on distribution is therefore important in the first instance because we have to treat people in solidarity with each other, but ultimately it will not mean that the people stay where they are initially placed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u37	Mrs. Faber, let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u38	The Minister talks about solidarity, compliance with the rules and the fair distribution of the number of people to be included. However, I have the impression that the rules are not always respected. All these endless discussions give people false hope. As long as people still have hope and have the idea that they will be admitted to Europe, they will continue to get into those crummy boats. Isn't that inhumane?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u39	I don't know if false hope will be awakened. I think it is quite important for the discussion to distinguish a number that are now in danger of slipping away. Firstly, we distinguish between different types of migrants. People decide to come to the Netherlands or Europe for various reasons. That already requires a differentiated policy. We need to be able to talk about that. We've got acquaintances. For them there are separate arrangements that aim to stimulate our economy and prosperity. For people eligible for international protection under the Refugee Convention, the Netherlands has also developed separate policies in cooperation with European partners. And we look critically at workers from other Member States who exercise their right to free movement. You know that. There is free movement and we want to maintain it, but Mr Asscher is committed to a level playing field for both the Dutch business community and our employees, dealing with fraud and abuse. I would also like to mention the policy on asylum seekers and illegal migrants who have been processed, and who are working in close cooperation with European partners and third countries on the most effective return policy possible. The policy therefore has several aspects. Take, for example, return policy. That is something you consider important from your political point of view. You will have to work together as a Europe to create the political strength to ensure that this return is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u40	But I don't think the people who get on a refugee boat are going to cooperate in a return policy. I don't have that idea. I don't know how the Minister sees it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u41	I don't think so, either. But it is then up to the governments in Europe to decide whether or not someone is an asylum seeker and whether or not they are in a position. There are rules for this: you cannot just send someone back, but if someone is not recognised as a refugee, he or she must return. Then you need Europe to make that possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u42	We can talk about what we do to refugees and asylum seekers when they knock at our gates. Countries such as Australia, Indonesia and Singapore are opting for a completely different approach, namely for the humane return of potential migrants to where they come from. Would that not be a more humane solution at the end of the day than giving hope and housing people in camps for many years without much prospect of a future? Wouldn't a policy of blocking the influx be wiser?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u43	If you look at the dramas that are now taking place on the seas around Thailand, Burma and Indonesia, these are precisely the consequences of your policy that they have nowhere to go: they are drowning in the sea. That is not the policy this government advocates. Every human being is a human being and every refugee is a human being. We have our responsibilities for that. It is quite different to create the illusion that Europe can suddenly absorb everyone in the world. That is why it is rather complicated, I say to everyone here, how you conduct a sensible policy in the management of migration, in which not all people who are in trouble are dismissed. We have international asylum treaties that we have to abide by. But it is important to come up with an integrated approach, without any naivety. That is why the Dutch Government supports the possible military approach to smuggling networks. But there is no simple solution. In addition, there are different geographical conditions here than in Australia, if that were a good model. There have been models with Spain and the Canary Islands, on which more sensible ideas have been suggested. But let us not forget that 95% of people are currently being taken care of in the region. There is nothing against that, and this is therefore strongly supported by the Netherlands. You can see that there great responsibilities are taken by countries in the region, sometimes in the communities, among families in large camps. Recently I was in Turkey, where 1.3 million people are being taken care of. They could also say: we have nothing to do with that. Of course, it doesn't work that way. There are two things that matter: not naivety, but keeping to international obligations. Within the realization that this is a major problem for the future, we need to shape an integrated approach. And although it concerns people, I must say that it is fair to say that Burden Sharing also needs to be done, because for every society it is quite complicated to integrate many people who come from afar. There are also, quite rightly, social debates on this issue. I said something about social policy. Europe is also there for climate and energy. We spoke there about a month ago in the first term. There is a European responsibility here in particular. There too, it is important to make a proper balance between what you do intergovernmentally and what you do nationally. I consider this positioning of an Energy Union to be important, as well as the common climate policy. We will have to act together towards Paris as Europe, also with regard to other blocks, to ensure that a good agreement is reached. I believe that tensions at the eastern border of Europe place the importance of an internal energy market at the forefront of sustainable, affordable and secure energy supply. By creating clear frameworks, the market can therefore do its job. A good example of this is regional cooperation, in which the Benelux countries, France, Germany, Austria and Switzerland work together. In this context, I mention the 2030 climate and energy package and the European Council conclusions for an Energy Union as important steps forward. Further effects will take place in the coming period. I would like to conclude with a number of questions that have been raised about external policy. I have dealt with most of the questions about TTIP in writing. I assume that this will be followed up in the debates this Chamber has with the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation. I think it is important for Europe's strategic positioning to say something about a number of points in the common security policy. Questions have been asked about this, particularly with regard to the Russian Federation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u44	Before the Minister goes any further, the following. There have indeed been a lot of answers to the many questions I had, among others, about TTIP, the European internal market, other trade agreements and investment protection within it. If those answers had been given in this debate, I would have liked to place a lot of interruptions on it. That's gonna be a little tricky this way. I can repeat everything in second term, but then it will be a very long second term. Is the Minister going to say anything about it or is he just going to refer to the written answers?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u45	I actually want to stick to my written response. Of course, the government is ready to continue talking about TTIP at any time. That is also part of this debate. I could also imagine you going into this further with the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation, because there will be another round in some time. But I'll leave that to the Chamber. Of course I am prepared to answer further questions from the Chamber, but at the moment I have nothing to add to the written reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u46	I think this is a difficult point, because the Minister is actually avoiding this essential part of the debate. I very much agree with Mr Elzinga that, if the Minister gives written answers, we do not have the opportunity to discuss this with him. We can start an exchange of letters with the Minister, but this debate does not actually talk about TTIP, while TTIP is an essential part of the input of several colleagues. If the Minister refers to his written input, he will thus avoid this debate with regard to TTIP.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u47	With all due respect, MPs always have a second term. I gave my answer in writing. If you would like to make any further comments, you are of course free to do so. I come to the external threats. It is quite clear that Europe and Europe's differences are in a completely different situation than they were a few years ago. This requires an answer to a number of difficult dilemmas. I mentioned the issue of migration, which is closely linked to it. But it is now also about Ukraine and the frozen conflict with the Russian Federation on the one hand and the transformation and instability with regard to the Middle East on the other. In any case, the Dutch Government is committed to strengthening the CFSP on all possible fronts. We have also developed a policy with regard to the Russian Federation, including with colleagues, focusing on three elements. First of all, that is the element of sanctions, which we do not think is a positive policy in itself. Sanctions do not replace a policy, but they are needed because of the rules that have been unilaterally changed in Ukraine. These can be lifted at the time of compliance with Minsk-II. I am pleased that diplomatic contacts exist between the US and the Russian Federation, but also between Europe and the Russian Federation and Ukraine. This is essential because, in addition to sanctions and strengthening Article 5, which is more of a NATO matter, it is also important to keep communication channels open. Within the framework of the CFSP, a question has been asked about a European army. I think that a European force does not just call for one voice. More important is what capabilities we want. An EU army is not on the table for the cabinet. It is logical that the EU should think strategically about further developing our common defence policy. We have seen this in recent days, and this is also reflected in the EU's strategy, which the High Representative is now preparing. It is also logical that we should increase our defence efforts, but in such a way that our military resources are aligned, both at EU and NATO level.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u48	Can the Minister imagine that Member States, including the Netherlands, are spending more money on defence if this is not embedded in a clear division of tasks and coordination of activities? That's got to be a pre-condition before more money goes to defense.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u49	No, that's not a condition.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u50	If that is not a condition, it could mean that we are continuing along the same path that we have been following over the past few decades. Each country then decides for itself, without coordination. In recent years, we have also made cuts without coordination. That was a bad thing, too. If we really are serious about a common foreign and security policy, then we can only achieve much more if we move towards a common approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u51	I don't disagree with that. On the contrary, I agree. But you asked me if it was a strict condition to bring about a trend break in defence expenditure at all. To that I say: no, it is not an absolute condition. Let there be no misunderstanding: everything that was discussed at the Wales Summit about NATO, which in the long term calls for 2%, and in the European Union too, it is all about this kind of thing all day long. We cannot continue to take on an entire military force like the Netherlands. You need operationalization. If there is one country that cooperates on all fronts, I call it EDA, I call it the High Readiness Joint Task Force together with Norway and Germany, I call it Navy cooperation, then it is the Netherlands. So I fully share your philosophy. Of course, the extent of a possible further trend break is due to the effectiveness and efficiency of the use of resources in the European setting. But you specifically asked me whether this trend break would be impossible if it were not to happen simultaneously on all fronts of everything. I wouldn't say it that absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u52	I didn't mean it that absolutely. More money for defence should be linked to a job definition in a European context.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u53	I think we actually agree on that. I come to a number of specific questions, which I want to quickly walk through. I have been asked for an opinion on the fact that the West is no longer dominant and is seen by many countries as a threat. Indeed, the West's dominant position has declined relatively. This does not mean that the European Union and the US are not still the largest economies and that they are dominant in that international economy. It is irrefutable that we are going to a multipolar world, in which the acceptance of what the West would prescribe is no longer just a fact. To be honest, this is a healthy development; there is nothing wrong with it. You shouldn't be schematic about that. The appeal of the European Union to millions of people worldwide is still there. That has to do with the problem we have just discussed. I call it the European social model. Of course, it's affected, but it's still being seen. I was just visiting Latin America and Mexico. These countries look at Europe as a model for cooperation. The enemy image of the West is not today or yesterday. In some cases, that is understandable. In other cases, this assumes very dangerous trends. We see this in extremist groups. Europe must abide by the rules of the international legal order in the firm belief that power in the world has shifted. There is much more to be said about it, but in view of time, I would like to leave it at that. The development bank AIIB has also been asked for. The Netherlands is involved in this. We want to operate on the basis of the debate on the rules that is currently taking place. These are rules that we also know in other institutions about transparency and development effectiveness. With many others, we want the AIIB to become an international financial institution of high quality and effectiveness. In doing so, the Netherlands, like other EU prospective founding members, will work for compliance with international standards in the field of labour and the environment, transparency and accountability, and the fight against corruption and international fraud. The EU as such is not a party to the bank. She wasn't asked to. Individual EU Member States have been asked to join individually. China has also had discussions on future cooperation with the European Investment Bank. I come to the questions that have been raised about common foreign policy and the right of veto. Since the Treaty of Lisbon, the European Union has gained much in effectiveness. There is now a High Representative for the Common Security and Defence Policy, also Vice-President of the Commission and Permanent President of the Foreign Affairs Council. That is important, because we are now seeing for the first time that foreign policy, trade and development are involved. That was close in the past. It must not be the one-sided approach to international relations that we have seen so far. We also see this in the European External Action Service. A cluster structure is also being developed. We attach great importance to the fact that effectiveness goes hand in hand with democratic legitimacy. As far as we are concerned, the democratic anchoring of the CFSP lies in the national Member States. We know that in those 28 Member States a veto is a very heavy instrument. As the number of Member States increases, the threshold to use this medicine increases. I have also seen this in discussions where there was very rapid division, for example on the sanctions regime against the Russian Federation. All countries have so far agreed, from Denmark to Greece and from France to Germany. Mrs Strik asked a question about Mr Brenninkmeijer's statement that all countries, including the Netherlands, are focused on self-interest and that they do not operate jointly within the EU. Does the Minister recognize himself in that image? With all due respect to Mr Brenninkmeijer, I see that differently. I do not find it a problem at all when countries stand up for their national interests. I do not necessarily see national and EU interests as conflicting with each other. Of course, European Member States are pursuing their own interests. We have just talked about how that works. That does not alter the fact that you can reach a European consensus. Joint solutions are often the best vehicle to serve the national interest. It is well-known that national sovereignty is almost enhanced by European cooperation. So I do not agree with Mr Brenninkmeijer's overall position, even though he made statements in the interview which are highly desirable. I do not have much more to say about Ukraine in this context. Mr Van der Linden asked about the lessons of Mr Mearsheimer of the British House of Lords on the strategy of the European Union and the Russian Federation. I believe that the Ukraine crisis is currently the greatest security challenge on the European continent, at least since the end of the Cold War. I agree with Mr Van der Linden and others who said that it is important to analyse carefully how this crisis arose. Not only the actions of the Russian Federation, but also the actions of the West and internal development in Ukraine must be taken into account. Fortunately, a debate is taking place on this subject. Unfortunately, this is not the case in the Russian Federation, where in fact only propaganda resounds on this point. I do not agree with those who spoke of incomprehensible errors of assessment on the part of NATO and the EU. I'm really gonna distance myself from that. We really should not go through with self-criticism. Everyone makes mistakes, but the question is whether that's at the heart of what happened. In the European peace process, in which respect for national sovereignty and the non-use of force prevail, the use of forms of hybrid warfare is unacceptable. These violations of international law must also be raised by a country such as the Netherlands. In that sense, I do not believe that we should say that the West has as much responsibility as the Russian Federation. I note that countries should be free to choose where they want to belong. That shouldn't be enforced. There may be political psychology of humiliation, as happened at the end of the Cold War, but violence must not be used to destabilise a country. I agree with the spokesmen who said that the Russian Federation in itself has no regard for the EU and NATO approach. That does not alter the fact that I consider dialogue to be important. I met with the Ministers of the Council of Europe this morning. Mr Lavrov was present. I welcomed that and spoke to him as well. I said that at least this is a place where we can talk. Although this is not always easy and is not a business as usual, in the Council of Europe we want to try to speak in all honesty and directness about a number of common values, which are associated with great risks in a number of countries, for example in the Balkans. Mrs Mogherini is, of course, involved in the dossier on the Russian Federation and Ukraine. The same applies to the United States. Nevertheless, it has been a good thing that Mrs Merkel and Mr Hollande have made a proposal on Minsk II. The question is whether the financial support to Ukraine is a bottomless pit. I don't think so, but there are risks. We know the oligarchs in Ukraine and the years of very bad governance. This means that reforms and money need to get along very well without forgetting that it is a democratically elected parliament that has clearly chosen a certain direction. That deserves support from the West. In view of the fact and despite the fact that, of course, a number of questions have not been answered, I have answered the most important questions from the first period. Unless you give me some more time, I'll leave that to you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u54	I had calculated that you would be done with your first term by 9:00 a.m. at the latest. I have received an hour's speaking time for Members in second term. The schedule's 11:00 p.m. If we could finish earlier, that would be great. I'll give you until 9:00, but then it'll be over with your first term. Is that okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u55	I'm fine with it; I'm like laundry in your hands. I'll try to answer the questions as briefly as possible. I even want to talk about TTIP in the first term, but let me get through the questions quickly. Do we overestimate the impact of the European Union on our neighbourhood policy? I do not think so, but we must have a certain modesty. At the end of this week, we have a summit on the neighbourhood with countries such as Ukraine, Belarus, Georgia and Moldova. My view of the neighbourhood policy is as follows. Firstly, it must, of course, be voluntary. Secondly, it must be much more focused on specific countries and their characteristics. Countries like Armenia or Azerbaijan really choose something other than Belarus or Ukraine. It's gonna have to be tailormade. There will be no instruments on a country. There are opportunities for cooperation with Europe. That's what a lot of countries want. I think a number of principles should be applied. One of them is equivalence. There is no point in talking to countries from a eurocentric point of view. It doesn't work that way. The Barcelona meeting on neighbourhood was also an example of this. It needs to be targeted, so no one-size-fits-all approach and it needs to be integrated. That really means that we have various instruments. Of course, we maintain our values. There is no point in throwing that away when we implement the neighbourhood policy. Another question was whether we were not going to work with double standards, for example through arbitrary attention to human rights. The answer to that is no. That doesn't always make it easy, because on the one hand we're dealing with two phenomena that make it complicated. Firstly, in my opinion, Europe must stand for its values in the field of human rights, for example, both socio-economic and politically-bourgeois. This is complicated at a time when Europe no longer has the same position in the world as it used to think it has. You can no longer impose anything on the rest of the world; it does not accept that. If Europe comes up with a list of what is not good, there is no discussion and no effectiveness. That doesn't mean that you have to question the case, because that would be the other extreme. I think it is important that we pursue a much more serious policy on human rights, in dialogue with countries. Fortunately, we do so in a number of organizations. This morning, for example, we had a good debate in the Council of Europe. We have talked about what the Macedonian Government is doing now and about how it intends to resolve the situation there. What does that mean for human rights and independence? And now, when we talk about the immediate neighbourhood policy: if you look at the latest report from the Council of Europe, you will see that in one third of the countries there are major problems with the freedom of the media and with the freedom of the judiciary. That is a very serious problem and it is complicated to do something about it. You can say it's not good and you don't talk to them anymore. This may be necessary in some extreme cases. However, it usually means that you are working on reforms, but you cannot impose reforms from the outside either. I think we should look at this with a new urgency, given the scale of the problem that we also discussed this morning. What do the European Union's neighbours want and what are their priorities? Mrs. Strik asked for that. The Southern and Eastern Neighbourhood countries are actively involved in the review of the neighbourhood policy. That is very important. After all, it is also a question of shared interests. The southern neighbourhood countries were consulted at ministerial level at an informal meeting in Barcelona on 13 April. These countries are part of the Eastern Partnership and will be consulted at the summit in Riga on 21 and 22 May. That's the day after tomorrow. In Barcelona it became clear that the wishes and expectations for each neighbouring country may vary considerably. You see a concrete desire to cooperate in a number of areas of shared care. I refer to the fight against terrorism and radicalisation, economic development and work, migration and energy. There you see that you also have to do justice to great differences. In this context, I would like to draw attention to the human rights situation or economic opportunities in Egypt versus a country such as Morocco. So you can't really impose a one-size-fits-all agenda there. The question has been asked whether we are placing the emphasis on sustainable development. This is an essential part of the neighbourhood policy, and I believe that it should remain so. There is also the greatest interest in this. In a country like Morocco, it's always about renewable energy. You can also learn from each other, by the way. Investment is needed for this and there is often an advantage in those countries. There's also a big question of working together. The Association Agreements with Ukraine, Georgia and Moldova are not only about opening up borders to our products, but also about reforming and making the agricultural sector in these countries sustainable. This also means, for example, that time must be taken to adapt these countries. They must also build these benefits in sustainable agriculture. For the EU, the deadline is seven years, for Ukraine, Moldova and Georgia up to fifteen years. There is, of course, a different rhythm for Europe, which is easier to achieve. I would just like to make a few comments on the state-of-the-art initiative. During the Dutch Presidency, we will be able to conduct the annual state-of-law dialogue for the second time, probably around May and June. The first dialogue is likely to take place under the forthcoming Luxembourg Presidency in the autumn. The Netherlands has good contacts with Luxembourg to consider the implementation of the dialogue, including with a view to ensuring continuity with the second dialogue in 2016. To move from the procedures to reality, I had to fight that initiative of the rule of law a little bit, because a lot of countries, including the Netherlands, find it difficult to address them under the rule of law. That always leads to intense debates. That is why it is necessary, and that is why we have taken the initiative of the Member States of the state in Europe, and that is why we have got through it. Now we have to try to give this body somewhere. There are other organisations where that already happens. You don't have to do doubles. Orban's statements on the re-introducing of the death penalty have been asked for. We must guard our achievements. This means that reversing the abolition of the death penalty is incompatible with common European values and European law. If the Hungarian Government were to pursue its intentions, the only conclusion may be that this is contrary to what the European Union stands for. Of course, we are following closely what is happening in Hungary. A question has been asked about the Court of Luxembourg and its accession to the ECHR. The government notes that this has led to a considerable delay in the accession process, i.e. the fact that the Court of Justice has ruled that the draft accession agreement agreed at official level is not compatible with the EU Treaties in several respects. For us, but also for the European Commission, accession to the ECHR remains an absolute top priority. In the semi-annual report of 13 March 2013, the cabinet announced with its commitments to the First Chamber that the wish for rapid EU accession to the ECHR is fully supported by the Netherlands, although due diligence has been offered during the accession process. The European Commission is now and must do so. We have asked the Latvian Presidency and the Commission to discuss the state of play at the General Affairs Council, because I really think that this should be speeded up. Mr De Vries asked why the fight against organised crime was not stepped up. I disagree with him. It may be difficult or unfair because he is not here right now, but the fight against organised crime is extremely high on the agenda for international and European cooperation. It is one of the four priorities I have mentioned. We are specifically organising meetings on how to deal with trafficking in human beings and cybercrime, the administrative approach to organised crime, financial detectives and European forensic policy, in order to make a dent. The results of these meetings will contribute to further discussions within the EU, both at policy and operational level. We will discuss this with the United States during our Presidency, as specifically requested. Every six months, the EU-US ministerial meeting on Justice and Home Affairs, referred to by Mr De Vries, will take place. This is, of course, separate from the policy of combating terrorism or foreign terrorist fighters that we are developing together. The European Union also participates in the Global Coalition against Terrorism. That is also important to mention. A question has also been asked about the net payment position of the Netherlands. The fact that the Netherlands is a net contributor is a reflection of our relatively strong economic position. Countries such as Sweden, Germany, the United Kingdom, Italy and Denmark are also net contributors. The positions of these Member States are generally not very different and vary per year. At present, it simply cannot be established that the Netherlands is the largest net contributor in 2014. That is only possible if we have the final figures. They'll be published by the end of the summer. However, I would point out that the Netherlands succeeded in bringing down the absolute ceiling of the MFF for the first time in history during the last MFF negotiations, together with similar-minded people. The MFF has also been modernised, including by making more money available for research and innovation. This is for the benefit of the Netherlands. I thought I answered most of the questions with this. I will make a few comments on TTIP, given the questions raised by the Court regarding the written answers to the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u56	I thought for a moment that a number of questions had been forgotten and that they would not be discussed either in writing or orally, but some of them have now, fortunately, been answered, such as the accession of the EU to the ECHR. The Minister also talked about the added value of the Council of Europe as a platform where you can talk to each other, following his meeting with Lavrov this morning at a meeting of Ministers of the Council of Europe. The rule of law has been discussed on a regular basis. The accession of the EU to the ECHR is a priority of the Dutch Government. The international conventions on refugees and migrants have been discussed regularly. I have the impression that not only the EU, but also the Council of Europe is very important to the Minister. I asked whether this also means that the Dutch Government will advocate butter for the fish and an end to the nominal zero line for years for the Council of Europe budget, which is relatively tiny.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u57	Yes, you have a point. I don't think this is the biggest revolution for you, but I advocated a real zero line this morning. We're one of the few. That's gonna save some money. I think you're right about that. I was the only one who spoke about the budget at the Council of Europe meeting this morning. You must also be honest with the Council of Europe. We are addressing Macedonia, the Russian Federation and Ukraine, but we have also been criticised by the Council of Europe. There has been a lot of discussion in Dutch politics about what the ministers have discussed there. You may differ on this, but I believe that the ministers have responded correctly, including the criticism of the Netherlands. Every country must dare to be vulnerable. I think this is important. As you know, this morning we strengthened the ECHR in terms of judges and the functioning of the Court. I think that this should be supported, because I see some negative aspects in some countries in the region. There's a discussion to it. For example, we had a long discussion this morning on the issue of Macedonia. At the Council of Foreign Ministers of Europe yesterday I stressed that Commissioner Hahn, like the Council of Europe and the OSCE, should also play a role in this. It is then immediately said that Macedonia has also partly fallen victim to the name issue that is not being resolved. I think this in itself is right. There will be very different views on the prospect of accession. We need to study these things carefully, but these are important elements that pose national and international risks. The Council of Europe has set out a number of principles that we must stand for. Real zero growth is not a revolution, but it is something. I would like to make a few general comments on TTIP, given the questions that have been asked. These questions concern very technical elements. I tried to answer those questions as specifically as possible. That's not to put myself out of the debate. Of course, you can debate this at any time with the government and with myself, but in the light of the next round in June, I think it would be wise to talk about it with the trade minister who is in those negotiations every day. When answering the questions, I tried to say that the Dutch Government is obviously looking very critically at the negotiations on TTIP. There must be no misunderstanding about that. The Netherlands has traditionally been a trading country. We have been linked to international trade for centuries. We believe that trade is a good thing in itself. 70% to 80% of our employment is linked to this. That is why it is important that there are trade agreements. I don't think that's the problem. Last time we talked about what happens to trade, because it is shifting more and more. It is no longer a question of tariffs or quotas, but it is slowly but certainly also much more intensive about standards and social regulation that has been democratically established in national states. The debate is about how to deal with the dilemma of globalisation and national sovereignty or democratic legitimacy. It is not a question of the Dutch Government putting all the standards at risk via Europe as quickly as possible. It is about whether we are going to allow China to set standards in the world, which has much lower standards than the Netherlands or the United States. Do we want to think strategically about how we can be as effective as possible in a world with very strong competitive conditions, which also often affect social standards? We have said, as an important point, that content is above speed. It's important that it gets there, but not at all costs. We have also said that this is likely to create jobs, but there is also a possibility of discussing where these jobs end up and who the winners and losers are. That discussion has not yet ended. It is important to have that discussion here too. In the end, it's a matter of trust. We negotiate and the Chamber can assess the outcome. I welcome a broad debate on this. The cabinet represents a high level of protection in terms of health, social standards, environmental legislation, consumer and legal protection. That's not up for discussion. EU negotiating documents on sanitary and phytosanitary measures also contain no mention of chlorine chickens and hormone meat. We do not want to negotiate this either. It is quite clear that we have our own right to protect humans, animals and plants and retain our own regulatory frameworks. The same applies to chlorine chickens and hormone meat. Mutual recognition of standards in TTIP is only possible if the standards provide an equal level of protection. If that is not the case, we do not recognise something. For me, it is simple: TTIP must under no circumstances undermine our democracy and our legal protection. That is why, together with Germany, France, Sweden, Denmark and Luxembourg, we have proposed improvements to investment protection. They are widely embraced, also in the recently presented Commission proposals for investment protection and ISDS. We have to assess these benefits by their value. In any case, this means protection while preserving the rights of governments to regulate. Investors can and should never expect those rules not to change. Secondly, proposals concerning the quality and independence of arbitrators for a legitimate dispute resolution mechanism have been made in the framework of the design and functioning of tribunals. There will be a code of conduct for arbitrators and an opportunity to appeal. In addition, the Commission describes the possibility of setting up an International Investment Court. Then there is the link between ISDS and national justice. In doing so, we want to avoid something called 'treaty shopping'.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u58	I very much appreciate that the Minister is going to go into that now, but given the clock and the arrangements with the Minister, we have five minutes before this debate. So I take to heart what the Minister has said about this earlier. I'm okay with that. I also think that some of the principles outlined by the Minister are not wrong at all. As an example, I would like to mention the conditions for the arbitration court and the framework conditions for dispute resolution. However, these conditions are not yet set out in TTIP. Fortunately, they are discussed for the longer term. That is a good thing. Perhaps the Minister's suggestion to discuss this with the Minister of Trade is very good in view of the forthcoming round of negotiations. It seems to me that we should seriously consider this hand-out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u59	Mr. Writer, then?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u60	Next up, Mr. Chairman. I fully agree with Mr Elzinga that it would be good if we had another in-depth debate on TTIP and the draft proposals for this treaty, while it still makes sense to have a debate on these proposals, perhaps in the presence of the Minister responsible for Foreign Trade. However, I would appreciate it if the Minister could comment on the importance of international labour law in this debate. We all know that the United States has a poor reputation for ratifying conventions of the International Labour Organisation. It is even unclear whether or not they support the so-called basic minimum labour standards. The United States is not even party to a large number of multilateral human rights conventions, not even to the Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. I would appreciate it if the Minister would say once again that the Dutch Government's commitment will at all times be that the minimum labour standards drawn up by the UN International Labour Organisation and laid down in a number of multilateral human rights conventions will never be surrendered in the negotiations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u61	I can confirm that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u62	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u63	Mr. Koffeman, after that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u64	I am also very pleased with the Minister's commitment to legal protection. There is a great deal of uncertainty about this. It is nice that the Minister has done so explicitly. I am assuming that legal protection will apply from the entry into force of the Treaty and not that it will seek to restore legal protection. I assume that the commitments made by the Minister are really a basic condition for saying yes or no to TTIP. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u65	Yeah, that's right. I fully understand the unrest about arbitration and the discussion about dispute settlement in investment. That's what it's about. This discussion has been going on for years. She used to play in the WTO. There is also a very real debate to be held. Perhaps I should explain why there is such a thing and why we see great risks in it at the same time. It has nothing to do with right or left policy or with the way you look at the economy. If you make investments somewhere, as a foreigner, you want a certain guarantee that your investment will not be taken away from you in a day. That seems to me to be a real point in itself. The question is whether companies should be allowed to enforce arbitration cases which relate to values democratically established in a country in relation to animal welfare or to the important principles that Mr Schrijver has put forward. That is the crux of the matter now. The Dutch Government has put forward proposals to create a system which does not. That is the subject of discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u66	I repeat that I am pleased that the debate on changed arbitration has started, partly thanks to Minister Ploumen and her colleagues. This is a future discussion. Unfortunately, this is not yet the case in TTIP. It's one of the important issues. The other important question is why we should at all agree such arbitration between countries that we recognise as legal states. Why should we grant foreign investors privileges and higher, different or faster legal proceedings vis-à-vis domestic investors? There was no such thing between OECD countries. The only reason why a number of countries within the European Union have such bilateral investor agreements with the United States is that they come from the time when they were Eastern European countries, i.e. before they joined the European Union. As a result, we are now even dealing with a number of intra-EU BITs (or IBOs). This is because countries from outside the European Union have joined the EU. The essential question why we should want this was never raised, let alone properly discussed, by the Commission, in the European Commission's consultation on ISDS and TTIP. There is no reason for it either, because we can just get justice from the judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u67	I have two comments to make on this, one which may be disappointing to Mr Elzinga and one which he will be pleased to see. The protection of an investment in another country is common practice. There is nothing against that in itself. That's what almost all countries around the world do. This has to do with the fact that a country would not be able to attract investment otherwise. A number of developing countries are doing it, but so are the Netherlands. In itself, there is nothing against arbitration. The only question is how it happens. I have better news for Mr Elzinga about this, namely that it has something to do with TTIP. This is not a matter for after TTIP. The proposals we are making now are about TTIP. The improvement of the regulation in this area is therefore not a good thing after that. In this sense, there are still many possibilities to obtain in a democratic debate with the government, me, Mrs Ploumen or the European Parliament the assurances that Mr Elzinga wants.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u68	We'd be happy to enter into that debate. At the moment, Commissioner Malmström thinks differently from the Minister in Europe. I am glad that this is his position. He says, "We all do arbitration." However, after Germany and perhaps a few other countries in the world, the Netherlands is the country with perhaps most bilateral investment treaties. The Netherlands is somewhere at the top. The Netherlands alone does not have an investment treaty with the US. Why should such a treaty now come between the European Union and the United States, when the Netherlands and the United States never felt it necessary between themselves? We have many investment treaties, including arbitration, with countries of which we never trusted the rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u69	I have just stated that it is important to ensure that investments are made on the basis of protection in an international world, but that this can only happen if this does not undermine the rules that have been adopted nationally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u70	Perhaps, for my information, Mr Elzinga, I should like to draw your attention to an important treaty between the United States and the Netherlands, which dates back to the 1950s. At that time, the concept of bilateral investment treatment was not yet in place. The treaty is therefore a "friendship, commerce and navigation treaty." This includes the protection of foreign investment. There is also an international dispute resolution procedure, with the possibility of arbitration. This is a common feature of almost all, almost 100 bilateral investment treaties that the Netherlands subsequently concluded.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u71	Just a moment, Mr Elzinga, and finally. It is an interesting discussion, by the way, but we cannot have it endlessly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u72	Okay, last point. The issue of ISDS in most recent bilateral investment treaties, as well as in the CETA Document (Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement) with Canada and in what we know so far about TTIP, is that arbitration is possible without exhaustion of national capabilities. That is a very essential difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u73	Although the government often has to deal with this sort of thing, it is not easy to see two highly educated gentlemen discussing it. I will stick to the view of the Dutch Government. We are not opposed to arbitration in principle, but we are very sympathetic to the feeling that there should be no shopping or undermining of national standards. There's got to be an appeal. There should also be high standards for the code of conduct of arbitrators. Mr President, that concludes my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u74	Thank you. Then we have now reached the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Van der Linden.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u75	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for his very thorough reply and for the compliments. In addition, I would like to express my condolences for the death of his father. That was a valid reason to cut the debate in half. In 1977 I held my first debate on Europe in the House of Representatives. That was about Greece. Today I am having my last debate on Europe. In the meantime, Europe has become much more complex. Much has been achieved, much more than we thought. However, the world has also changed. The world has changed so much that we don't have time. The speed at which we have to adapt is not comparable to the speed at which we had to operate. The second major difference is that the European Economic Community was much more homogeneous at the time. We have now become completely diverse. That makes everything much more complicated. The Netherlands was a strong supporter of the Community principle, of Community decision-making and of legal principles, and not of intergovernmental decision-making. This has only come about with the accession of England, which had a very different approach. England wanted a free trade area but no integration. In this debate, as the Minister said, we are dealing with a breach of trust between Member States and with citizens. Moreover, this breach of confidence is linked to much more matters than to the matters discussed by the Minister alone. First of all, I think it is very good to look at the image we are creating about Europe. This is very often completely inconsistent with reality. Think of the national headlines we have ourselves. There will now be an interesting report from some advisory body of the government that proves this once again. Europe is constantly being played down. Many ministers who operated in Brussels and went home will say that all the misery for the Member State comes from Brussels. However, everything that goes well, they have done themselves in the Member States. I ask the Minister to pay attention to that imagery. Secondly, we are talking about knowledge about Europe. I have asked, in almost all the debates on behalf of the CDA Group, how it is possible to live in a world where knowledge of Europe is so poor, including in education. The same applies to the young generation, which operates across borders and thinks globally. She does not even know the difference between the Council of Europe and the European Union. Those are basic things. It would be very good to pay much more attention to this. My esteemed colleague, Mr De Vries, has also constantly drawn attention to this. Then I come to the question of intergovernmental or Community? That is an essential question. The question now is whether there will be further integration or a growing lack of relevance of Europe. Further integration means transferring sovereignty in a number of key areas. That must be done as little as possible, but it is necessary. Does the Minister think that we can make progress without further transfer of powers, without further transfer of sovereignty, or rather, without sharing sovereignty with other Member States? In my view, it is an illusion to assume that we can make progress with 28 Member States at the necessary pace in the coming years. That is why I am once again advocating the idea of a leading group. The Minister says that we can also enforce sufficient resources in the context of intergovernmental cooperation. I doubt that. We've seen it. This Commission is again the first, I hope, to have political support. Schulz and Juncker did a great job. The President of the Commission may rely on the legitimacy of the European Parliament. That must strengthen the Community element. We have had a period in which the intergovernmental element has necessarily played a leading role. My question to the government is where the Netherlands is in this debate. Does the Netherlands agree that we should strengthen the role of the European Commission? Or should intergovernmental cooperation be allowed to continue? I am also saying this because I find that we are much more divided. I see very few shared visions, visions that are worn with his 28's. I'd like to get a few examples of it. There is no common vision about There is no common vision on energy policy. We may have a vision, but there is no effect. In June, we get an interesting report from the four presidents. That report will certainly be good, but the question is what happens. What are the Member States going to take over from that? Then I come to my next main point, Russia. I'm not for Russia, I'm for Europe. Whoever is in favour of Europe must know that we must cherish our relationship with Russia. It is vital in the long term for the whole of the European continent. There is no stability and long-term security imaginable without a good relationship with Russia. I am not talking about the raw materials and the innovative power that we can add, that is, the mutual interests. I am not talking about the fact that we are culturally much closer to Russia than we are to China. Russia is also much closer to us than China. In other words, I would like to put the following question to the Minister: how do we get out of this impasse? I share the Minister's view that Russia has gone far beyond the line, but I have a different approach to the causes. It's always about cause and effect. In this case, we concentrate on the result and then point the finger at it. I must honestly say that I find it staggering what Mr Breedlove says about the NATO General. He says he's never been to Russia. I don't know if he's ever spoken to Russians, but he wants to send troops to Ukraine now. Fortunately, we still have Bundeskanzler Merkel, who stops doing so. This kind of language does not solve the problem. Why do we not have greater self-criticism, I ask the Minister? I found Mearsheimer's report very interesting.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u76	As always, I listen with interest to colleague Van der Linden. I had the privilege of traveling with the president in Georgia. That country shares a border with the Russian Federation and has also had to give up two areas. Whoever started what: that is the situation, of a frozen conflict, one might say. There is a great deal of concern about the Russian Federation's desire for expansion. Of course, we also have Ukraine and the MH17 issue. Mr Van der Linden refers to an American general, but what is he actually advocating in relation to the Russian Federation? In Georgia, there is a real threat, as in Ukraine. A number of prominent people have said: we need to increase defence efforts. That has just been mentioned. But what does Mr Van der Linden advocate with regard to dealing with the Russian Federation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u77	I'll get to that. I would just like to say that I have expressly stated that I am abandoning the way Russia has behaved there, not only now, but also in the past, in the previous debate. In addition, I say that if anything happens, we should also look at the causes. I dare say that the West has also contributed to this conflict situation. Look what was agreed in 1991 on the extension of NATO to Russia. We may say quietly that the West did not keep to the agreements on this point. Look at some developments. I am referring, for example, to Kosovo and its anti-Crucifixion. I say: we have contributed to creating these tensions. That is not an legitimacy for Russia to behave as it has behaved, and I understand that very well in the previous debate I also mentioned the fear that exists in the Baltic States, and in Georgia to some extent. I have been there many times, I may say, and have spoken a lot with the previous President, Saakashvili. I've been to South Ossetia, too. I feel that tension and I understand it. But if you have a neighbor, you have to learn to hang out with him. How is it that Azerbaijan, for example, can build a pipeline in the framework of TAP and TANAP, where Russia would have liked to put a lot of gas in, and it has been able not to get cubic meters of Russian gas in without any conflict? How is it that countries like Kazakhstan can conclude agreements with America, with the European Union and that they are also part of the Union of Russia? I believe that, given the geopolitical circumstances in which they are situated, these countries are also being asked to conduct a policy towards every corner of the world. Ukraine is not being discussed and the Minister has said that there is going to be an analysis of the causes and consequences of what has happened there. Ukraine was almost a failed state, on the issue of state justice, economic development and so on. Ukraine must be helped; that is obvious. It may express its wish to belong to the European Union. It may even say that it wants to belong to NATO. It is a very different question whether we think this should be done. We must judge that question. In doing so, we must consider all the consequences. We did not take into account the importance of our neighbours' neighbors. That is what the Mearsheimer report says, and that is what a number of experts have said. Moreover, during the work visit that the Chamber made to Brussels last year by the Foreign Affairs Commissioner, it was made clear that we made errors of assessment when it came to Russia. I think it is very good that the West is facing that. However, at the moment we are in a situation where there is a common interest in getting out. The Minister says: we have pressure, sanctions and dialogue. I understand that. Only now I ask the Minister: what is the dialogue? I was in contact today, and I found out that the French Assembly went to the Duma last week or two weeks ago with 17 parliamentarians. He also has a new delegation on the role. That is parliamentary democracy. We're running out of contacts. America has partly caused what has happened here; there are substantial differences of interest between America and Europe in the relationship with Russia. I should not be called upon to work with America, which is essential; it is essential, but it cannot be linked to the importance of Europe without giving it its own dimension. I think it is very good that we in Europe are going to see how we can get the dialogue back on track. I understand that there has been a very good discussion in Brussels today between the ministerial committee of the Council of Europe and Lavrov, and that Russia itself considers it a very important development. I think these are channels that we need to use a lot more to get back on speaking terms. I asked the Minister how we could prevent geopolitical relations from being poisoned. What are the instruments that we want to use for this? I also spoke about the situation in Ukraine. I didn't use the words "bottomless well" myself. I did say, however, that these are fabulous amounts that will have to be coughed up. My question to the Minister is where they will come from.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u78	I'm afraid to interrupt you, but would you mind keeping an eye on your time?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u79	I am going to conclude, Madam President, because when I was the President of the Commission, I was also a little bit pissed off when people spoke too long. I don't want to put you in that position. That is why I would like to conclude with the following question to the Minister. We have advocated the inclusion of metropolitan, cross-border regions in urban projects. I had prepared a motion for that. I'm not much of a motion man in this High College of State, so I'm not filing it. I would like to ask the Minister to say it again and also to give substance to it. Finally, I would like to say this. The Minister said that we must listen to the citizens and cannot force anything. I have something to say about that. Politics must be at the forefront, because the consequences of today's action will be over a longer period of time. That is what politics is responsible for. I've quoted Goethe here before. He said, "Don't dream small dreams, because they are unable to move people's hearts." I would say that in the past period European cooperation has become even more necessary than it has been in all these years. We need for Europe at the moment a sense of conviction and passion. I would like to say that we also need ideals. The same applies to Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u80	Madam President. I would also like, on behalf of my group, to express our sorrow at the loss of his father. I want to keep it a little shorter after a European hasten. I begin by saying that I have a slightly different approach from Mr Van der Linden, despite the fact that he has been in Europe for much longer than I have. The medal always has two sides. I think that Mr Van der Linden speaks very heavily in favour of the Russian Federation. Crimea and Ukraine have not been the Russians' first violent interventions; they preceded South Ossetia, Abkhazia and Transnistria. If they expect us to take them seriously and to have a dialogue, one might expect them to make a gesture towards the West and the countries that have already occupied them. But they never did. They just stole the case and stayed there until today. That will be no different with Crimea; I can assure Mr van der Linden. For me, that is a rather different approach to dialogue with the Russians than the approach Mr van der Linden has chosen. I would like to make two more points in the direction of the Minister. The first is something I raised in my first term, which concerns Romania and Bulgaria. Those are two border states of Europe. One could say that the border between internal and external security policies runs along the external borders of Romania and Bulgaria. Those two states are still in the cooperative and verification mechanism. When I visited Romania, I myself experienced a considerable frustration there about the fact that one is always considered to be the kindergarten in Europe on that point. I know that there are agreements and conditions that both countries must meet, but they are members of the European Union. The question I asked in the first period is the following. Is there perhaps a possibility, now that we are developing that rule of law mechanism, to merge it with that cooperative and verification mechanism in the future, which will approach Romania and Bulgaria at the same level as the other Member States of Europe? This rule of law mechanism means that not only the newcomers or the last incoming countries but also the other countries and even the founders of the European Union will continue to question each other about the rule of law. In particular, I asked this question because we are still dealing with the border problem and with the fact that we have been able to hear recently that, with increasing control in the Mediterranean, the land route is again becoming a very attractive route for our migrants; it is not just the boats but also the land routes, which are mainly via Bulgaria and, to a lesser extent, through Romania. It is therefore also important that these two countries be supported in fulfilling their role in Europe. My second question is a shorter one. At the end of my first-term speech, I asked the question: 'Qo vadis Europe'. My final question was whether the government considers the European Union as an economic community to be sustainable in the long run without further political integration. That is a very short question, a question which will have a lot of nuance in the answer but which could also be answered briefly and properly. So more political cooperation to maintain European cooperation. I hope the Minister will say something about this on behalf of the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u81	Mr. Chairman. Before I respond to the Minister's reply, I must say that I have fallen from one surprise to the next. Prior to this debate, I did not have the illusion that the present senators and the minister would suddenly see the light and make a fervent plea for an EU that would be close to the citizens. I am not surprised at the pro-European attitude of parties such as the CDA and D66. No, we know from those parties that they are striving for an even larger EU, have little confidence in the strength of our Netherlands and want to transfer almost all the powers to the EU. I am not surprised either about the scaremongering in which the mantra 'without EU no security' is once again taken away. No, it was mainly the VVD that made the eyebrows frown. During the first term, the VVD cast off its critical mask that it wore during the elections and showed itself on its most pro-European side. For example, this party advocated a further political embedding in the EU. This simply means more powers from the national Member States to the EU, i.e. more EU. The VVD also distanced itself in the first period of the proposal to close the external borders in order to stop the enormous migratory flows. If the Lower House Group of the VVD agrees with a good proposal, it will be torpedoed by the Upper House Group of the VVD. When it comes to the real problem, namely Islam, the VVD, like other parties, certainly does not give at home. The VVD here in the First Chamber shows her true face. Once again, proof that the VVD's talk during the election campaign is not worth anything at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u82	I expected a little more insight and experience from the colleague; she hasn't been in the Upper House since yesterday. The beauty of the two-chamber system is that we have a Chamber like this where it is spoken in a different way and may be thought of on the other side. As for the other face of the VVD: you can choose the face you want. You may choose the face of the Second Chamber or the face of the First Chamber, but in the symbiosis of those two we end up with a situation in which the VVD is also of opinion.I can assure you that this also applies to the other side.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u83	I do not hear a question from colleague De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u84	I made a comment on your comment in my direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u85	Of course, that's okay, but I'm in charge of my own text. I understand that the VVD wants more EU. That's obvious. Then I come to the Minister's response. I would very much like to thank the Minister, but he has not answered the questions of the PVV. It seems to me that the questions are not so difficult for a man with so much experience in politics. I can't speak for him, but I can help him a little with the first question. Over the past two weeks, I have found a report on the financing of foreign organizations of mosques in Europe and especially in the Netherlands. My question was: does the Minister have a view on the financing of mosques in Europe and in particular in the Netherlands? To stay in European style: the research agency RAND Europe has carried out a study on foreign funding of Islamic organisations in the Netherlands on behalf of the Ministry of Security and Justice and has published the report Foreign financing of Islamic institutions in the Netherlands. It states that there is little doubt that the foreign financing of Islamic organisations exists. For example, the Al Maktoum Foundation from the United Arab Emirates confirmed that it has donated 4 million euros to the Essalam Mosque in Rotterdam. Kuwait's Ministry of Religious Affairs donated €400,000 for the construction of the Blue Mosque in Amsterdam. This was done through the European Trust Network. Donations at the Westermoskee in Amsterdam are linked to Milli Görüs and Diyanet, aka Islamic Foundation Netherlands. Diyanet appoints and pays imams in Dutch mosques. However, the size of the money flow could not be properly determined by the research firm. My question to the Minister is therefore whether he is prepared to investigate further the financial flows of Islamic organisations. The fact that these money flows are there is certain, but the size is unknown. Then I had a second question for the Minister. I mentioned some of the points why Turkey should never, ever have to join the EU. I won't repeat them for the sake of time. I was pleased when the Minister said that Europe must stand for its values and that freedom of the media and justice are important. Well, I can tell you here that Turkey has nothing to do with freedom of expression. Certain judges have been held inactive, and then I say it very neatly. And as a blow to the head: Turkey has nothing at all, but nothing at all with equality between men and women. That is quite different in Europe. I therefore ask the Minister once again whether, as far as he is concerned, Turkey should still join the EU. Turkey also has a dubious role to play in relation to IS. IS is not comparable to other Islamic terrorist organisations, such as the Taliban, Al-Qaeda and Hamas. IS has its own territory and does not need sponsors like other Islamic terrorist organisations. IS itself generates 3 million dollars a day and the capital of IS is already estimated at 2 billion dollars. Income comes from oil profits, ransoms and boat refugees, among other things. While Saudi Arabia is building a wall to stop the border with Iraq to stop IS, we leave the borders open so that jihadists can lift along with the boat refugees and expand their terrorist activities on European territory. The EU is still cooperating in this by imposing a quota for asylum seekers to be admitted to the Member States. That was the second question. Then I have a third question, and the Minister must know it. How much financial resources have gone to the Palestinian territories over the last ten years? I understand that it's not entirely understandable what happened to that money. I'd like to get an overview of how that money was spent. If that's not insightful, we'd better stop. I'm rounding up. Not only are our soldiers allowed to go down the street in uniform, out of fear of violence-related irritation, but fear has also spread in this Chamber. All the other parties dare not be critical of Islam. This weak attitude is the breeding ground for even more Islam and that is irresponsible. Putting your head in the sand for the further influence of Islam in the European Union is turning away from freedom, equality and democracy. In short, that is your turn away from civilization and the handshake of barbarism. As I pointed out in my first term, the EU is mainly losing sovereignty and a loss of political independence, and we do not want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u86	Has Mrs Faber forgotten that the Netherlands is taking part over Iraq at the request of that country, when it comes to stopping IS?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u87	No, I didn't forget.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u88	You don't call that easy, but you do blame me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u89	Yes, but I can't name everything, because we have a timetable. I can talk for hours here, but I do not think that will make Madam President happy. I'd like to finish my last sentence. We represent the interests of the Dutchman. We also opt for the Netherlands and for prosperity, freedom and sovereignty.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u90	Mr. Chairman. Mr De Vries is on the road in Europe and, as is so often the case, is working tirelessly these days to achieve European values. I have the pleasure of replacing him today. First of all, I should like to refer back to the previous item on the agenda, namely the comments made by the Minister on behalf of the Government on Protocol No. 15 to the ECHR. They were all the same to us, because we also believe that no substantive changes should be envisaged by including the principle of subsidiarity and the doctrine of the margin of appreciation in the preamble to the ECHR. We were very pleased that the Minister had also said this in a clear and clear manner and that he had thus removed the doubts that had arisen in the previous Rutte cabinet. On this point, I would also like to include the European Union's accession to the ECHR. The Minister said that he would draw the attention of the Latvian Presidency to the way in which this impasse could be overcome. The Netherlands awaits the European Commission's proposals. But isn't that a bit of a wait-and-see attitude? What ideas does the Dutch Government itself have to speed up the accession of the European Union to the ECHR? What is the Dutch commitment to this debate? Secondly, on behalf of the PvdA Group, I would like to say a few words about tackling mass unemployment in Europe, particularly youth unemployment. We thank the government for the information on European commitment in this area, which we received in writing last Saturday. We can see that unemployment is falling in parts of Europe, but that is far from happening in all parts of Europe, and it is far from happening in all sectors. Unfortunately, this does not apply to youth unemployment either. How effective are the plans, including the European Investment Plan, to create more jobs? Can the Minister say anything about results that have so far been apparent and which can be related to the use of European funds? Thirdly, I would like to say a few words about the outcome of the British elections. This has been new since we had this debate in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u91	Mr Schrijver talks about youth unemployment and its enormous problems. He is quite right, of course, but does he not think that the monetary policy pursued by the European Central Bank, particularly for the countries of southern Europe, has driven youth unemployment to its present level over a number of years? If the answer is 'yes', does he have any consequences for monetary policy? I don't think that's unimportant.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u92	Your assumption that I would say yes to that was a little too soon. I think that we are trying to bring monetary policy into line with social policy. The sound macroeconomic policy, and perhaps some strict monetary policy, is opposed to a very generous investment policy, with 315 billion in resources now. However, in addition to the written information, we would like to have some more information on the plans and how they work out. We would like to hear whether these plans can help to reduce the appalling youth unemployment, particularly in the southern European Member States. I return to the island off our coast, the United Kingdom. I welcome the Minister's commitment to making a number of points, that he prefers not to amend the Treaty of Lisbon and that he does not want to interfere with the "holy principles"........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... We also share with him that we would like to keep the British on board without offering a Europe à la carte. Perhaps, when it comes to promoting an increased role for national parliaments, which is, by the way, entirely in line with the Treaty of Lisbon, and certainly on a subject such as tackling social fraud, there are elements to be found in order to compare with the British before Cameron has to go to the British population with a simple 'yes' or 'no' to the question of whether or not to be in the European Union. Could the Minister say a little more about that? Fourthly, Mr De Vries has repeatedly made a point of informing us about Europe. I am sure he shares the Minister's feelings that it should be more than leaflets with 'Europe, also for you'. I share the Minister's memories of the somewhat skilful campaign for the draft European constitution at the time. It is therefore very important that we bring Europe closer to the citizens. The Minister has mentioned a number of important examples which could bring Europe closer to its citizens, including in dealing with what he called the urban issues, urban concerns. However, the Minister did not mention the point raised by Mr De Vries in order to facilitate the cross-border movement of workers in the border regions. This is often an outrage in many European border regions. Perhaps the Minister could take that into account in his reply? Fifth, we very much welcome the call for an integrated policy on all fronts. It may be easy to say, but the importance of integrating different policy areas cannot be stressed often enough. That is why we agree with the Minister's call for integrated policies in the areas of migration, peace and security, sustainable development, the sustainable use of natural resources, the environment and energy. I would like to add that the Minister also considers it very important, within the framework of this integrated policy, that the Netherlands and the other Member States should comply with its commitments in the European Consensus on development cooperation, including in order to maintain international development efforts. Then the final point. This concerns Mr De Vries' comments on serious crime. The Minister spoke very well about what is being done at European level, including on the Dutch initiative, in the areas of counter-terrorism, cybercrime, the fight against trafficking in human beings and forensic cooperation, but Mr De Vries was actually talking about a subject very close to home, namely serious organised crime, especially in the field of drug trafficking and drug production, for example in the province of Brabant. He said that we need to work much more with Europe to combat it effectively. Our group found the commitment in the government's letter on the Dutch Presidency, namely "... that the Netherlands will make a determined effort to consolidate and implement the fight against organised crime." We want an intensification. We want an earlier commitment. We want more than consolidation. That is why we are happy to put this very strong wish of the PvdA, shared with a number of other groups, to the House in a motion. The President shall: By members K.G. de Vries, Schrijver, Van der Linden, Postema, Fred de Graaf, Elzinga and Strik the following motion is proposed: The Chamber, heard the debate, noting that, during the Dutch Presidency, the Cabinet has stated that it will "continue its efforts to consolidate and implement the fight against organised crime" in the Justice and Home Affairs Council; considers that organised crime is taking such serious forms that it would be more appropriate to step up its efforts to combat it drastically; invites the Government to update its intention and to inform the Court thereof, and goes to the order of the day. She gets letter C (34166).
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u93	Mr. Chairman. I'll be very brief in second term. I had a lot of questions about TTIP and the principle of investment dispute resolution. I very much appreciate that at the end we had a brief debate with the Minister on this. However, I also take his hand on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Trade to enter into the real debate on TTIP and the reform proposals for arbitration with this trade minister and to repeat today's mini-debate. As the Minister pointed out in other contexts, the devil is mostly in the detail. In the many details of the written answers to my questions there are still a lot of devils. I would also like to thank the officials for all the written answers. I am grateful to the Minister for his clear answers on the added value of the Council of Europe, the ECHR and the Court. Indeed, it is not revolutionary, but real zero growth is slightly better for the Council of Europe or at least less bad than nominal zero growth. I am also grateful for the commitment on commitment to keeping accession to the ECHR on the agenda. I think it's time for that now. I share the view of Senator Schrijver that we should also take a position in this regard. In fact, I think that we will have to take a political decision on this matter, because otherwise we will still have a 'frozen conflict' in Europe. As far as the limité documents are concerned, too, I welcome the commitment. I had prepared a motion on the pursuit of greater transparency, but I do not think it is necessary to submit it now that the Minister has indicated that the government is on exactly the same line. The government, in reply to my first speech in writing, is more optimistic about the financial and economic situation in Europe. Conversely, I note that the SP Group is less optimistic about the EU and, above all, about the financial and economic situation and the blessings of deepening the market and TTIP, but I look forward to the debate we will discuss later on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u94	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his written reply and for today's. It is difficult to debate in two parts. The same goes for the Minister. In honour of Mr Van der Linden, I now quote a well-known statement by Christian Democrats. It says, "If it can't be done as it should be done, then it has to be done as it can." I believe this is Jan the King's adage. At the same time, I have summarised the Minister's response, too short and incomplete, on his reflections on the progress of the EU. It is complex and a new solution will have to be found for every complex problem, in the way that can be done. In fact, this is always the answer to the questions of treaty change or intergovernmental. In the first term, I chose the style figure of a letter to my grandson. I then ended by saying that the leading political leaders of that moment, who should have chosen to do so, deliberately failed to do so. That's how I ended my letter. I was hoping, and I have not given up on that hope, that the Foreign Minister is one of the leaders who will now lead the way. I also saw and saw points of light in his approach. I have listened carefully, although I have not become very much wiser with the written answers, with all due respect for official support. It was written very neatly and around but in the debate and in answers to questions I listen to a driven ruler, but also a ruler who deals with matters with caution. I shall now confine myself to the Dutch Presidency. I listened carefully to what the Minister said about the conference, or the meeting, or the meeting on the budget debate on the MFF. I would like to encourage you to note that COSAC, the Article 13 conference, also called for action to be taken on this issue. This is what parliamentary diplomacy is for. I think this is an important subject. The Dutch have always played a good role in this respect both in the European Parliament and in the Court of Auditors, including in the accountability of expenditure. The Minister referred to the new start of the Commission and the European Parliament. In a way, the cabinet agrees with this new start, but it is mainly about the credibility of the European project and its consistency in words and actions. Yes, growth, jobs and security, but on all these issues I agree with Mr van der Linden's swan song that there must be a deepening of integration if it is to be successful. Then cutting and limiting you to the main issues are important, not from the point of view of "the EU should do less, because that is better for all of us," but from the point of view of "what the EU does, it should do well and with effect." Then I am always a little concerned, also traditionally, that we reflect on the British attitude. We're not the British. The Netherlands is a different country. We cannot afford it, and we should not want it. I think we should be very realistic about the Brexit, the non-brexit or what it will eventually be. I have already said something about this in the case of interruption. This should not really dominate the Dutch Presidency. I hope so, too. I'm closing up. In this beautiful hall, the United Provinces, the states met. They met here, but probably never thinking that there would be a national state, let alone a European Union. And yet we are there and will grow there further. This is complex, but my group believes that this is ultimately the prerequisite for freedom and development. I will end with the cry: and now let's go!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u95	I'd like to go along with that. I would like to know whether Mr Backer also thinks that now is the time for the British to choose or share: in or out. Gladly, for strategic reasons as well. But if the British are constantly putting spokes in their wheels, it may well be good for Europe that the UK is finally out of it; unfortunately, because that is strategically bad. How does Mr Backer view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u96	They're in. There's a possibility in the treaty to get out. It's possible. Judgement is up to the British. The Minister said some very important things about that. The British will have to make a proposal, otherwise everything will remain as it is now. In fact, the background to my thinking about the British attitude is that we have traditionally always been good and generous, because we thought we had a lot of common points. Yes, we did, but I think that with economic and monetary union we have become a completely different country and a completely different economy. So it's up to us to count our own buttons and the British to count their own buttons.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u97	We are transatlantic and Atlantic oriented with the Randstad, but our interests are much more towards Germany and German-French cooperation. It would perhaps be a good idea to look at what level the British have actually made concessions to Europe over the past 25 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u98	I think I can close my term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u99	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister very much, firstly for the written reply and secondly for the extensive oral answers. This time, European considerations were quite special, not only because of the forced interruption, but also because of the fact that we are more or less on the eve of the Dutch Presidency of the EU. This will enable us to look at the situation with regard to European cooperation during these European reflections. If you do that, you'll find that everyone's actually judging this differently. Are you okay or not? The Minister just reacted rather positively. For example, he did not recognize himself in Mr Brenninkmeijer's remark that one puts too much self-interest first and therefore tries to achieve much and tries to achieve little. It is, of course, crucial that Member States recognise that the European interest often coincides with the national interest. Work is under way to restore the lack of trust and solidarity that you still see too often on many files within the EU. The Netherlands could very well use the Presidency to see how to strengthen confidence. I am referring not only to the trust between the Member States, but also to the trust of citizens in the European Union. Of course, this includes the story of why we have the EU and what we want to achieve with it. Transparency is also part of this. We need to involve citizens more in what we are talking about in Brussels and what political choices are at stake. My group therefore welcomes the commitments to return to transparency, the documents, and to look really critically at the way in which the criterion of appropriateness is actually applied. We talked about migration. The Minister said that an integrated approach is necessary. I fully agree with that. I would like to go into a few more details. The Minister said that it is important that countries comply with Dublin registration. He also said that solidarity and redistribution criteria were important. Those two are very close together. At the moment we are really in a stalemate between the countries, between South and North in particular. The southern countries feel abandoned and may be tempted by this to not take it so closely with the registration. If we are to get out of this stalemate, we will have to adapt both at the same time. We must then show the southern countries that we want to show serious solidarity and that we simply want asylum seekers and refugees to be distributed fairly across the European Union. Prime Minister Rutte responded to this so far quite reserved, I must say. He said above all: let us first see if the other countries want to; we will keep our powder dry. I think that is an unfair and unwise attitude, because if all countries behave in this way, you will not achieve a broad shared attitude and a common approach. Minister Koenders was already a bit more positive. To further encourage him, I have prepared a motion for a resolution on this matter. The President shall: Mr Strik, Mr De Boer, Mr Elzinga, Mr Koffeman and Mr Kox proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that:]] [[the European Commission on 13 May. has presented proposals to ensure a proportionate distribution of asylum seekers and refugees between EU Member States, in the context of the relocation and resettlement of these asylum seekers and refugees;]] [[these proposals contribute to a fairer distribution and greater solidarity within the EU;]] [[the need for broad support within the EU for early implementation of these Commission proposals;]] [[calls on the Government to actively support the principle of (re-) distribution and to work for its broad acceptance within the EU,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34166-D]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u100	I couldn't have read the motion more beautifully. Mr. Chairman. Another aspect is the 'disturbing human trafficking', as the Minister calls it. There is also a need for an integrated approach. 'Cause why is there this human trafficking thing? Part of it is fed by the demand for ways of getting to Europe. As the Minister knows, refugees have very limited ways to reach Europe safely and legally. They can't apply for a visa. If it gets too full in the region and if a drop overflows the bucket, there will be pressure towards Europe. Then the smugglers are all too happy to be of service to these people. So you're not here just by saying you're gonna stop people smuggling. This can only have a perspective if we also create a way for people to travel legally to Europe. Of course, we must also support the region in its reception, because the Minister is absolutely right to say that more than 90%, even 95%, are being taken care of there. If we don't support the region anymore, as it still needs more facilities, people will continue to go through. Furthermore, we will have to make a real contribution to the resettlement of refugees. The number of 20,000 has now been proposed. Does the Minister think this is enough? Does the Minister think that the EU will then take on a sufficiently proportionate share in relation to the numbers that the region is currently facing? After all, the Minister said just now that only three countries together have to accommodate 3.5 million people. Another point is, of course, that people smugglers are brutally taking advantage of the refugees who need them so badly. Their methods are ruthless. The question is whether the method envisaged by the EU can really be effective. It's about military resources. The Minister has just indicated that we will not tackle the issue without a Security Council veto. I am very pleased with that, but does the Minister really believe there will be such a veto? If that is not the case, what exactly is the EU going to do? What borders does the EU seek to do there? What the hell does that look like? We don't want boots on the ground, so are we going to try to identify someone from the air to see if he's a migrant, Libyan or human smuggler? That seems very difficult to me. The same goes for the boats. When is a boat purely a fishing boat and when is it used for human trafficking? I miss a lot of detailed but very essential information to know if this is effective. Here too is the devil in the details. If the Minister cannot go into this in detail now, I understand that, but I would ask him to inform us about it so that we can consider whether this will actually be done or whether it will prove to be a tough policy. I would therefore like to receive the Minister's undertaking that we will be informed of this. In any case, my group would like the Minister's undertaking that if boats or other military vehicles in Libyan waters or outside the EU take action to combat human trafficking, international human rights will be respected there. That is why we are preparing this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u101	Are you filing the motion or is she in preparation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u102	She's been prepped and we've worked her out now. I hereby hand her over to you, Mr. Chairman. The President shall: Mr Strik, Mr De Boer, Mr Elzinga, Mr Koffeman, Mr Kox and Mr Schrijver proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that:]] [[the EU has conceived the plan to combat human trafficking beyond the EU's borders, including the use of military means;]] [[the EU wants to operate outside European territorial waters and even outside international waters;]] [[calls on the Government to make every effort to ensure that the EU always complies with the "search and rescue" obligations of the law of the sea and with the obligations of the Convention on Refugees and the ECHR,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34166-E]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u103	I would like to make a few comments on the neighbourhood policy. The Minister indicated that the Barcelona countries have expressed their wishes: we need to move more towards tailor-made work. In the first term, I asked: is it not true that the countries above all stress the need for sustainable solutions, for example in the Middle East? Each time, this appears to be a factor which prevents them from moving forward or being hindered. My question was what the Minister has to offer these countries. Of course, it is not just about the specific things that are needed in these countries, but also about the regional context in which we would like to move forward. I am pleased that the Minister has indicated that human rights remain at the forefront and that this includes socio-economic human rights. I have talked about the concerns of NGOs that the liberalisation of the economy, fueled by cooperation with the EU, leads to greater poverty and exclusion, among others from small farmers, who are underdoing it. We are talking about sustainable development, where we see "sustainable" not only in the sense of "pure green" but also in the social sense: society must also be sustainable in the long term. I come to human rights. I am glad that the rule of law prevails, even during the presidency. There is still a culture of silence to be broken: we must address each other on human rights. In our view, therefore, we should not rule out the possibility of the Commission taking additional action on this issue, for example by means of sanctions or binding recommendations. If it turns out that it is not enough for each other, then we hope that there is a positive approach to continuing to examine these mechanisms. Citizens must also be able to appeal to their governments for alleged human rights violations. That is why I would like to remind the Minister of my motion of more than a year ago on the optional protocol of three human rights treaties. The Chamber has reappeared this motion to the Minister and has reappeared the Minister for Security and Justice and the Minister for Foreign Affairs with the question of where the response to that motion remains. I am really asking the Minister to respond to that, because it is starting to get indecent. The Minister should not want that, because he should set an example in that respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u104	Do you keep an eye on time? You are almost out of your speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u105	I have a few brief comments to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u106	Very briefly, then.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u107	For the climate, we want a more ambitious attitude. The Minister has indicated that the Netherlands has the same. Will the Netherlands also make an ambitious commitment to all the directives proposed by the Commission on energy saving? If we are to achieve ambitious targets, we will have to achieve maximum results on the individual energy directives. I have one more point on tax rulings. I have also spoken about this in the first term. In the written replies, the Minister indicated that the Netherlands is very much in favour of sharing tax rulings. It is also very important that these are shared with the public. Is the Minister also in favour of imposing an obligation on multinationals, for example, to open up tax payments by country and tax rulings to the public? An amendment has been tabled to that effect in the European Parliament. We are curious whether the Netherlands can support this. Finally, I come to ISDS (Investor-State Dispute Settlement). I am pleased that we will be discussing the follow-up to the rounds with Minister Ploumen. My group is committed to considering whether to reconsider CETA (Comprehensive Trade and Economic Agreement). Minister Ploumen has also indicated this. If we include the ISDS clause in CETA, it will be very difficult to destroy it in TTIP (Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership).
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u108	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his answers and commitments. I also convey to him our sympathy for the loss he suffered. With regard to developments in Europe, particularly the free trade agreements, I am very pleased that the Minister has promised to defend an important value that we have exchanged in the debate and that he also wants to see it as a starting point for supporting or not supporting the negotiations on the free trade agreements. Many developments within the European Union have been subjected to undue pressure due to the fact that developments cannot be reversed. We have seen this in the introduction of the single currency, of which many people have said: that is not easy, to have a currency together if you do not yet have the same economic pace. The Minister also referred to that. You can do different things. You can say: we're in that boat, so we have to ride along; we can't go back, because there are no exit scenarios. As Mr Backer said, if things are not going as they should be, then so be it. However, that is quite something when you carry out the biggest monetary experiment in history, where you actually have no guarantees of a successful outcome. We see the same problem on a number of fronts in Europe, where the architects of Europe seem to be adjusting on the basis that we must make the need a virtue. If the single currency is bad and if it creates major problems, it may be a reason for further integration. If you have major problems at your external borders, that might be a reason for further shaping the common foreign policy. Perhaps that is also the reason for forming a European army. That's what Willy Claes hinted at. It is important to see that through this further integration into a currency union, a political union, a defence union, an Energy Union, as the Minister has just mentioned, you are actually forced into Europe on many fronts, because there is no turning back. Here you can hypothetically ask the question what it would be like with Greece or with Britain. Do they have to get out or don't they have to get out? It has something grotesque that we are wondering about here, when we are not talking about it, when there are no decent exit scenarios, when you should actually say that you have ended up in a play that you don't know about and on which you have little influence. As I said in my first term, it is interesting what Professor Dani Rodrik says about this: economic globalisation, political democracy and the nation state are incompatible. At most two of these three elements can be combined. Democracy is compatible with national sovereignty only if we limit globalisation. In addition to globalisation, if we want to preserve the nation state, we will have to abandon democracy, according to Rodrik. I would very much like to hear the Minister's views on this. This is, after all, des Pudels Kern, with which many groups in this Chamber have problems. We can also say that Europe has not so far offered a real solution. For the moment there is no real solution to this either, and that is what Europe is struggling with. Another thing is that Europe says, and the Minister agreed that here too important values, such as natural values or the way in which we think we should deal with animals, should be protected. This is a little bit at odds with the consultation that Europe has launched on EU legislation such as the Birds and Habitats Directive. Those European laws are not entirely conclusive. You can decide under certain conditions to deviate from that in your own country. However, you can see that according to the Brussels growth logic, the protection requirement and the limits are too high. The economy must and will grow and no tree or animal should be an obstacle to that growth. That growth is sacred. The survey launched by the European Commission is clearly intended to call into question the usefulness of European nature legislation. This is happening with suggestive questions such as: is there still a need for EU legislation to protect species and habitats? And how do the costs of nature legislation relate to its benefits? So you can see that with this kind of 'leading the whiteness', the EU is clearly looking to level out nature legislation. I would very much like to hear the Minister's views on this. That's all I want to say for the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u109	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by thanking the Minister for answering all kinds of questions about a very wide area. I must say that I have been pleasantly struck by the nuances in his answers here and there. In my opinion, this is extremely important, because Europe is a subject in the Netherlands which divides minds in such a way that a debate between the various groups is no longer possible. Either you are a fairly uncritical advocate of Europe, a larger Europe and more Europe, or you think on very different grounds that political union goes too far for many citizens, although financial and economic cooperation is obviously sensible. As a country in Europe, you can't be against Europe. It's a reality you have to live with. However, you can have a very clear and well-founded opinion on the direction in which you think you should go with Europe. We are in the middle of this typical Dutch debate and are in general at our knees in the mutual misunderstanding. I would like to highlight one point from all the points raised. That does not mean that I do not find all these other points interesting, but a person has to choose in life and in this case I have chosen to say a few things about monetary union and the role of the ECB. It is true that the European Central Bank was democratically established by the Maastricht Treaty. However, the same Maastricht Treaty also made an extremely important agreement, which was also essential for the introduction of the euro, namely the 'no bail-out'. That agreement meant that no country could give financial support to another country if financial difficulties arose there. I do not want to go over history as a whole, but one thing is clear: we all strayed from that principle of the Maastricht Treaty. So far, several countries have provided guarantees of enormous size to other countries. If we look at what this means for the Dutch situation, it comes to the conclusion that every Dutchman has received a guarantee in the order of €16,000 per person. Every baby born today, every baby that comes into the world innocently, gets a backpack wrapped in a debt of €16,000 in the first few minutes of his young life. Now, of course, we have had a finance minister, Jan Kees de Jager, who argued with fire that all the loans we provided to Greece, for example, were very good for us, because we would get them back with interest. Let us be careful to say that this optimistic view of the matter is a bit out of date. The reality of today is that a country such as Greece, with a debt of 180% of national income, even if it pays off at a reasonable rate, will be working on it for 60 to 100 years, unless there would be a huge write-off of debts. That is really the only way to get out of the dilemma and this whole debate that we are dealing with right now, this whole game that is being played, this whole mess that is being done, will end no other way than with or with the resignation of the Greeks, or with a huge remission of debts. Unfortunately, there are no other flavors. So we now have a euro and the problem for southern Europe is obvious: the euro is based on the principle of 'one size fits all'. Turns out that didn't work. The euro is too cheap for the northern countries and the euro is far too expensive for the southern countries. Not only does the one-size-fits-allidee effectively kill the little industry that was present in southern Europe. At the same time, this whole process has been the driving force behind huge youth unemployment in the countries of southern Europe. Some people do not support that idea. I know. We were able to hear it tonight, but I think those who deny it do not have the facts on their side. Maybe they have the political conviction on their side, but the facts certainly don't. It would be a good thing if the discussion were conducted mainly on the basis of facts available. We started with the idea that the euro would become a binding factor which would lead to further integration into Europe. [[Sentence could not be parsed: We kunnen nu niet anders dan constateren dat de euro zich heeft ontwikkeld tot een splijtzwam in Europa.]] I am not happy with it either, but unfortunately this is the reality. Perhaps this has completely reversed the debate on the euro. In the Netherlands, a number of years ago, it was unthinkable that the survival of the euro should be called into question in a rational discussion, today that has become commonplace. The criticism is not only swollen, but actually seems to be the dominant tone. That seems to me to be the reality of this moment. What does that mean for my group? I would say that economic cooperation is very important in Europe and that it can and must continue. It means a lot to everyone. I am therefore firmly in favour of economic cooperation, but there can be no further European integration at the moment, at least not in the current circumstances with the problems of monetary union and the disgust of the population, unless we are losing the will of the people and we must not push them through.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u110	I give the floor to the Foreign Minister and ask him if he is in a position to reply immediately. He says he's gonna try. That's good. I hope we can be done by 11:15.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u111	Mr President, I am going to do my best to comply with your request. I try to answer the questions more or less in the order of the speakers in the second term. Perhaps I will combine a number of themes that will bring together different speakers. In any case, I would like to thank the members of the First Chamber for their contribution to the second term and for the interesting debate. I would also like to thank them for the personal words they have spoken to me about the loss of my father. I would like to begin with a number of comments made by Mr Van der Linden. He said that he came into politics in 1971 and that I owe much to his knowledge. I know what he means. The European Union has become much more complex since then. The Union has many more members and is therefore less homogeneous. I think we are also dealing with the strategic choice that we had to make at some point between enlargement and deepening. That was an essential choice that was considered differently at the time. Some said that enlargement would automatically lead to deepening or a multi-speed Europe. Others said that you should first deepen, because if you do not deepen, the European Union would slowly fall into a loose partnership and the Community method would lose influence. That was the other side of the coin. I am convinced that this choice was not simply based on ideals. I think she has had a lot to do with the end of the Cold War, creating a new reality, namely of countries that wanted to belong to the European Union. As a result, the question of enlargement arose automatically and the choice between enlargement and deepening was not so much an opportunistic one, but one motivated by the situation of the end of the Cold War. If that is the case and countries choose to belong to Europe because of a new geopolitical situation, which we did not foresee, but which we were all pleased with, it automatically means that the transaction costs to achieve unity in the European Union have increased considerably. We have 28 members now. Consensus in the European Union has therefore become complicated, whether we like it or not. I think that this is quite essential to explain why we may not be able to continue in the way we started with very good reasons, namely the Community method. I would not put it aside, by the way, but that is another matter. I think that we are the larger of the small countries, especially smaller countries, which certainly have an interest in the Community method. At the same time, I believe that the reality that has overtaken the choice of enlargement of the European Union has created a different vision for Europe. It is said that the European Union has always grown as a result of crises. These have been internal crises, such as the Second World War, which have had to do with the conflict between nation states, extreme nationalism and Nazism. There are lessons learned from that. That story is not the convincing story of today. We are now in a period after the Cold War and you can see that, due to new challenges, a deepening of cooperation is being sought. A reason for deepening is the threat on the east side of Europe. In my opinion, that has nothing to do with a return from the Cold War. I will return to the position of the Russian Federation in a moment. The threat leads to the will to cooperate more closely in the field of common foreign policy. In the case of asylum and immigration, the slowness with which the policy is implemented, and at the same time the urgency with the death of so many people, show that an external threat leads to European cooperation. At least it's started now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u112	I share the view that Europe is built from crises. I would like to add two elements to the story for history. I also share the view on transaction costs, although I do not think it is a cost, but a revenue effect for Europe. The first element is that the United Kingdom has always seen enlargement as an instrument for watering down. It always chose to expand from very different considerations. The second element is that the significance of the Council of Europe has been completely ignored. The Minister rightly said that countries wanted to belong to Europe, in a European home. That is what they were initially given in the Council of Europe. Because the European Union marginalised the Council of Europe, because it ruled the economy and money, these countries' desire to become members of the European Union became much greater. Looking back, I think it is a missed opportunity that the European Union has not given the Council of Europe the position to give the countries the feeling of the European home. This could have changed the pace.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u113	I would like to thank Mr van der Linden for this reflection, which I take very seriously and support. I would like to make two more comments. Firstly, I think it is true that with the accession of the United Kingdom, other visions of integration have become part of the European Union. We have also just noted that this is partly in line with a number of elements that the Netherlands considers important, often in terms of policy content, but certainly not always when it comes to institutional relations. That there are risks to that, I tried to put it into words. I will come back to Mr Schrijver's questions about what we can do to prevent a Brexit at a reasonable price of principle. I'll get back to you on that. In the area of the Council of Europe, I think Mr van der Linden has an important point. I believe that the importance of the Council of Europe still needs to be underlined. I have done so in the first term, and I will continue to do so. I would like to say that the enlargement of the European Union was really a wish of many countries in Eastern Europe. They wanted to belong more to Europe than "only" the Council of Europe. They wanted to be part of a single market and a protection that had to do with the in-depth integration of the European Union at the time, compared to the Council of Europe's moment of integration. In any case, I see that we are currently facing a number of major challenges: asylum, trade and security. This means that we have to come to some new decisions. They have to do with the question asked by the whole Chamber, which is how we should do it. Upstairs? Should we continue with the Community method? Should we continue to integrate politically? Do we have to run for the music? Others find this totally unacceptable, because people do not want it, because it is not the case. I would like to briefly mention a number of elements in the light of the comments that have been made on them. I shall begin with what Mr van der Linden said about the image of Europe. I agree with him on that very quickly. It is far too simple to give the blackbird to Brussels. That is populism, you hear it a lot, it is easy, but we are all, because of the intergovernmental responsibility, jointly responsible for the decisions taken there. Every transfer of powers has been agreed and democratically achieved here. What happened in Brussels should not be blamed on Brussels. That is a way of decision-making or decision that may not lie with us. It's too easy to land the blackbird on one side. When it comes to the image of Europe: Europe is more than market and currency, and it should be. Let there be no misunderstanding about that. A market and a currency cannot function without a degree of political confidence. Then there is no market and no currency. The problems we now have with the currency have to do with this lack of trust. In this sense, Europe is always more than market and currency, as a national society is. Mr Van der Linden asked whether Europe is at the same time a political community, as we know it at national level. The answer is no and we also know why it is: because we live in a Europe of suis generis, with its own nature of interplay between national states and European institutions. Does this mean that the regions would not be important? On the contrary. I think that with the urban agenda, the strengthening of the Benelux, the Europe of the regions and a number of issues in the field of energy, frontier work and mutual acceptance of diplomas within the Benelux, the Netherlands is at the forefront. This does not always have to be in the European context. I see the Benelux as an opportunity to be a motorbike like the Benelux existed before the European Communities came into being, for example, for citizens to shop ten kilometres across the border. This is not just about the traditional economy, but about the digital single market. That is not something of liberalization or neoliberal thinking. It's just a strange thing at this time that certain websites are being closed down, which is in fact commercial, because it's happening in the market, or that you can't take your pension 15 kilometres away. People are right to have great difficulty with that. The Netherlands sees this as an important point to strengthen. Should a choice now be made between further integration or irrelevantness? I think that's too sharp a dichotomy. So I don't agree with that. It is not either further integration or irrelevant. We must work together wisely on a number of points, which can certainly lead to Community aspects. That's what the leading group idea is all about. I'm not an opponent of that. In the first term, I have tried to indicate that this depends on a number of preferences. Mrs Strik said something about that and I think she is right about that. With regard to the question of whether this should be done within the Union Treaties or beyond, I would point out that there are a number of points that you can anticipate. I think that's the case. Can the EU without a transfer of sovereignty? I believe that the goal has never necessarily been a transfer of sovereignty. The goal is an optimal Europe, big on the big things and small on the small things. That is not only Community, it is not just intergovernmental, it is actually a hybrid project without precedent. There are opportunities for Europe. The Netherlands traditionally prefers the Community method. This has nothing to do with moral aviation, but with the whims of the big Member States, which must be tempered by the rules that all Member States, including the big ones, must abide by. That is why we are in favour of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u114	Obviously, transfer of sovereignty cannot be an end in itself. That would be crazy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u115	Okay. Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u116	What matters is whether global developments and changes in the world order are not going so fast that, if we do not join forces, we are seeing growing Europe's irrelevantness in a number of areas. Of course, that must be in areas where we are only dependent on each other. You can't do it without sharing or transferring sovereignty. There's no other way. That is also the whole debate on EMU's E, and that is the weakness of EMU at the moment. On the monetary side, we have transferred powers to a large extent and also to trade. We will also have to transfer parts in areas such as defence and foreign policy. share.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u117	That is precisely the point: transfer sovereignty or share sovereignty. In some cases, you will transfer sovereignty to an institution that works according to certain rules. Sometimes you will have to share sovereignty, for example through the methods of cooperation we are seeing now, which lead to a strengthening of foreign policy. I really do not believe that now is the time to say: we have one European army, with one European commander in chief, which is controlled by Parliament. With all due respect, that is not the way to strengthen European peace and security policy in the world today. Shouldn't sovereignty be shared? Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, I would remind you that many governments, including the Dutch, were very reluctant to unite peace and security policy. It is precisely this government that says: that is a priority for us. She's working on that every day in Brussels. We now have a High Representative, who we also support. We'll get coalitions to support her in her policy towards the Middle East or Russia. But that is different from what we are now saying: in the light of this new threat to Europe, it is now most sensible to move in that direction. You asked me if I wanted a European army. Yeah, I would, but I don't think it's wise to go down that road right now. That is a way of real transfer of sovereignty. This means that this Parliament is no longer concerned with whether we are sending people on a mission to the Mediterranean or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u118	You are now quoting an example that is indeed a step too far. That's gonna happen one day. I don't know if we're gonna see it anymore. But if you're going to share sovereignty, you can't do it without transferring parts of sovereignty. For then you will no longer be fully master of the matters themselves. A Member State can no longer say: we are the ones who decide. Then you have committed yourself to some of this at European level and to reaching a joint decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u119	With all due respect, the concept of sovereignty is often used and abused. There is no such thing as...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u120	I do not agree with Mr Van der Linden. You can transfer sovereignty, but you can share it. The fact that you share sovereignty already means that you can no longer give 100% of your own weight. Sharing isn't automatic transfer, no, you can share. But the moment you sit around the table with each other, you have to consider each other, and often the majority decide.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u121	I didn't think I argued otherwise. But there are political forces who do not want to transfer or share sovereignty. They want to stay boss in their own house.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u122	...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u123	Mr De Graaf: if it is to be in the Acts, you must talk in the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u124	Mr De Graaf asked whether the EU could remain sustainable without further political integration. The answer is no. The question then is what kind of political integration is at stake. What is political integration at this time? The PVV Group has said very clearly today: national sovereignty, borders close, protection against Islam. Every sane person knows that's a fiction. Sovereignty is no longer national. An employee of the PVV, Ingrid, earns her money by exporting and working somewhere. That already means you're dependent on an economy elsewhere. That is therefore a lack of sovereignty. It is impossible to maintain that in the Netherlands. Mrs Faber is aware of this, and should therefore not be an illusion for the public, which makes it very easy for people to become unemployed. It is therefore very important to describe the concept of sovereignty much more precisely. I ask everyone not to have any illusions on this point in the sense of 'we keep everything national or we do everything federal and everything in between is too complicated'. I am sorry, but we will really be lurking our citizens with that. That's no good to anyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u125	I think we've been exporting for decades, even when the borders were closed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u126	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u127	I believe that Dutch companies were exporting even before the European Union was in its present form.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u128	The European Union was created precisely to ensure that there was an internal market for goods that would not otherwise have come. Of course, exports have been made, but I have said that the concept of absolute sovereignty does not exist. This means that there will always be elements of political integration in the decisions and in the space you have in the decisions about what you want to transfer. So I'd like to oppose a giant lead forward all of a sudden. Perhaps I have a difference of opinion with Mr Van der Linden on this point. During the euro crisis, I say to Mr De Lange: whether you agree with it or not, we have built it at the speed of light. Maybe we were too late, maybe we should have done it sooner, maybe the architecture was wrong, but now it's time to consolidate. We now have the opportunity to work together in Europe on focus, innovation and connection for that growth and jobs. The European Union is now under pressure from inside and outside. I do not think there is any ideological incentive to transfer all our sovereignty. Nor is there any ideological resistance to share our sovereignty with our partners if it is capable of tackling major cross-border challenges and problems. We must realise that the Netherlands does not have a drawbridge, but lives in a globalised world where our values, principles and interests are not self-evident. I think that's the wisest thing to say. Of course, I could go into more detail about the central bank. Actually, the Chamber really likes that. Let me just say this. The upcoming Four Presidents Report is actually about these questions. We will have to wait for that answer. We have no bias in this regard. We have built up many instruments during the crisis: twopack, sixpack, emergency fund, banking union, European semester, monitoring, country-specific recommendations. We do not need more instruments, no, the current instruments must be given the opportunity to work and Member States must keep to the agreements. Solidarity goes hand in hand with solidity and not with new institutions that are suddenly going to enforce it, especially if there is no political basis for it. The cabinet considers the internal market to be the best binder and the best job engine in the European Union. That has nothing to do with left or right policy. That internal market does not yet exist. We pray that people get back to work. That's the point. Name Greece. That's where dramas take place for the people. Regardless of whether the responsibilities between deficit and surplus countries are being correctly applied, it is a total protection of all insiders in the labour market. How can young people get a job there, regardless of any macroeconomic stability? We really need to put emphasis on this kind of thing. This really has nothing to do with a further transfer of powers to the European Union or economic governance. We might be able to endorse that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u129	I am partly pleased with the things the Minister says. I can also go along with this to an important extent, but I do not argue in any way that the Greek problem can or cannot be solved by transferring sovereignty or not. That is not the problem at all in the case of Greece. Greece's problem is the enormous public debt and the fact that the internal industry has been destroyed. Greece is stuck with a euro that is far too strong for that country. There are very intelligent parallel coin solutions, whereby the euro is not put definitively in the bulk and allows the country to achieve internal devaluations. Monetary union has never been a success. We have always come out by the way of devaluation. That should be said out loud, as is the case in Germany. It should also be the subject of debate in the Netherlands at government level. I miss that so much. We are all stuck in the idea that the euro is there forever. Well, we can say with certainty that it is not. Let us look at it with an open and realistic mind. We must not be blinded by visions that will prove to be false. That's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u130	I would like to thank Mr De Lange for this analysis, which I partly agree with. The discussion with Greece has not yet come to an end. There's still negotiations. I remember the discussions on Cyprus at the time. It couldn't be there either. Things would be different there, too. Important measures have also been taken to consolidate and improve the situation on the ground. Several modalities have been discussed, including with regard to the banks, but that is another point. I'm thinking of the new formula of bail-in. Does enhanced cooperation within the Convention prefer? I say to Mrs Strik that that is absolutely the case. Within the Convention, a mechanism is provided for in all Community safeguards. That started with the European patent. It can take a long time sometimes, sometimes too long. I believe it took 30 years. It was a good deal for the lawyers, who made a lot of money from it, and hell for the entrepreneurs with 23 languages. It was ten times more expensive than it was in the U.S. A few years ago, the Netherlands, together with Sweden, managed to force a breakthrough in this process through the enhanced cooperation of 25 Member States. At last there is an EU patent in sight. Another example is the financial transaction tax. Apart from all the advantages and disadvantages, negotiations are under way. Enhanced cooperation should not affect the integrity of the internal market. Nor is it the first step in European regulation. On the contrary. Where policies are needed and there is no agreement in a broad group, enhanced cooperation within the Treaty is absolutely preferable because of all safeguards and the prevention of institutional bypasses. Mr Van der Linden asked me how we can get out of the impasse with Russia. It would take me an hour to really answer that in all honesty, given the complexity of the problem. Last week we sent the Chamber a broad letter on relations with Russia. We continue to strive for a real political solution, based on Minsk. As Mr van der Linden said, that does indeed mean a two-track policy of pressure and dialogue. I am really opposed to the idea that the EU is responsible for the crisis that has arisen. Nevertheless, I have also said that political psychology is always important to understand how to make contacts again. Let us not forget that Ukraine's sovereignty is also a great asset. It is up to Ukraine how it wants to associate itself. That is not to be decided in Moscow, nor in Brussels. Moreover, the EU is prepared to talk to Russia about the consequences of the association agreement. I like that. We have done the same these days. We have also managed to discuss energy with the European Commission, Ukraine and Russia these days. This kind of thing is important. Other problems are also being discussed with Russia. Let me give you the example of what is currently being discussed in Syria and Iran. It is not that we should not talk to Russia or that the Russians are not part of the European-Asian society in which we should invest. If we have rules on sovereignty and non-use of force and if there is destabilisation in a number of countries, for example in Moldova and Georgia, then there will really have to be a tough line there for what is and is not acceptable. I think we have found a really good balance there. I believe that, for example, military contacts are essential because of the risks in the air. We need to talk about nuclear weapons when Putin says that nuclear weapons should be on the agenda in Crimea. That's a long way to go. There can in no way be a passive attitude towards states. The intelligent challenge now is to find the solution in this mix of dialogue and pressure. Frankly, in my opinion, there is no alternative either. Support to Ukraine comes from the EU budget, but also from the EIB and the EBRD. The main instruments are macro-financial assistance and supplements to IMF programmes. They are subject to the same conditions. There will be support from the Neighbourhood Instrument to support substantial reforms required under the Association Agreement. I am also in favour of this support. There is also a bit of "the opportunity makes the thief": you cannot ask a country in crisis to meet all kinds of requirements without holding hands. I have no illusions about the state and the oligarchisation in Ukraine, but that really should go hand in hand. Mr De Graaf spoke about Romania and Bulgaria and said that the Corporate and Verification Mechanism is aimed at specific shortcomings in two recently acceded Member States in the field of judicial reform and anti-corruption and in the case of Bulgaria the fight against organised crime. This mechanism has clearly served its purpose and unfortunately still does so. Again, I would not underestimate the situation. The rule of law mechanism for which the Commission has recently made proposals in support of the Netherlands has a broader focus. The aim of this mechanism is to make possible discussion among EU Member States of problems of compliance with the principles of the rule of law in one of the Member States. That is a different starting point, but that does not alter the fact that I do see a overlap between the two mechanisms. Frankly, in the long term, I would prefer to work towards the situation where the CVM and the specific problems that are at the root of it are no longer on the agenda and that more and more progress is being made in these areas. The broad rule of law mechanism that is now being set up should be sufficient on the ground. A specific question has been asked about Schengen. I have also been to Romania and I hope to go to Bulgaria. I also understand the expectations in those countries. We must say to our citizens that the Schengen system must be able to function properly. There are all kinds of legal aspects to that. The CVM reports are essential. At the same time, we can see whether a start can be made, for example with regard to airports or sea ports, but conditionally based, i.e. on the conditions that we know for sure that the system also works. This is actually a transfer of powers within the framework of Schengen. In doing so, it is essential to have confidence. I am not saying that to be unkind to Romania or Bulgaria, but there must be confidence that the rules will be applied, allowing us to work together. We will make a positive commitment to this, but on the basis of these conditions. The PVV Group asked about aid to Palestinian territories. This is supported by the European Union, including the Netherlands. This aid is also much needed, precisely for the construction of a viable state as part of the two-state solution. Most of the European support is provided from the Neighbourhood Instrument. This amounted to more than EUR 2.5 billion between 2007 and 2013. By the way, that belongs to the European Union as a whole. For the coming years, this aid amounts to around EUR 500 million, depending on the progress made by the Palestinian Authority. Such support shall be directed towards good governance, the private sector and economic development, the water sector, UNRA and support for the Pegase payment mechanism. The reference was made to the European Court of Auditors' report of 2013. Of course, this is an important report, also for the Dutch Government. We also want the recommendations to be followed. The Council has now also adopted conclusions from this and the Commission has now taken them up. There is also evidence that the verification mechanisms are currently sound. I would like to point out to the PVV Group that these are essential elements to prevent extremism and radicalisation and to find a just solution to this problem. If it is not resolved, it will have consequences for Europe and for our situation in the Netherlands. Mrs Faber asked whether there were any worrying developments regarding the rule of law in Turkey. I have recently paid a visit to Turkey, and that is where these issues have been raised. I think it is precisely for this reason that it is important to open chapters 23 and 24 of the rule of law. We disagree about the cessation of negotiations. Turkey is a candidate country and candidate countries have committed themselves to European values and standards. Turkey has many shortcomings and that means that I do not immediately see that it will happen tomorrow. We have a rather strict view of that. In order to combat ISIS, it is extremely important that we seek cooperation with Turkey, because we are very dependent on the action there when foreign fighters from the Netherlands go through Turkey to Syria. As we know, a number of people have now been detained and returned to the Netherlands. I am very much in discussion with Turkey to avoid extremism precisely through concrete cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u131	I have a specific question about Turkey. Does the Minister believe that Turkey can only join the EU if it complies with European standards and values?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u132	Yes. Mr Schrijver asked a number of questions about Protocol 15 and the accession of the European Union to the ECHR. I appreciate the support of the PvdA Group for Protocol 15. It is important that we continue to do so and that the doctrine margins of appreciation and also the element of subsidiarity have been included in it in the way I mentioned earlier. Now that the EU Court has rejected the draft agreement, it cannot enter into force. As a result, the accession process is slowing down. That's a problem. The crux of the problem lies in the Treaty of Lisbon, which still obliges the EU to join the ECHR. That must be done. This is a top priority for the Commission and for the first Vice-President Frans Timmermans, under whose jurisdiction accession is concerned. That is what we have always reported to the Commission. The Commission has also stated in the European Parliament that this is its priority. It also mentioned the importance of EU accession at the Council of Europe Ministerial Conference in Brussels. An opinion from the EU Court of Justice is binding and therefore it is quite a difficult situation. The Lisbon Treaty offers two solutions in the event of a negative opinion from the EU Court: whether the draft agreement is being amended or whether the EU treaties themselves are being amended. Neither option will result in a rapid outcome. The rotating Presidency and the Commission are currently considering possible follow-up steps in the accession process. We think along with them, but we do not yet have the golden formula. These follow-up steps will be judged by the Netherlands on their merits. When more is known about these steps, this Chamber and the House of Representatives will be informed by letter. I hope to get a first report by the end of June, but the Chamber can be assured that we are very much behind this. It is really a rather complicated situation and perhaps we should also seek the advice of the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u133	It is very strange that the working party at the Convention, with both courts present, never mentioned a potential problem. It would be good to look back at the report of the working groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u134	That's a good suggestion. I assume this is happening, but I think it would be a good idea to take a very precise look at that. That must be done and we must get a trouvaille for it on the left or right. I'll leave that to good lawyers. However, Mr Van der Linden may be convinced of the commitment of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u135	While we are at a difficult impasse, we could try to use it positively in favour of something else. In the light of the development of the European Union, it would be very good if the European Union could also become a party to a number of other human rights treaties. As an example, I would like to mention the UN Refugee Convention or the UN's most important multilateral human rights conventions. This also fits in with the development towards a stronger European Union, with shared responsibility, alongside the Member States. It is also reflected in the membership of a number of international organisations, such as the FAO or the WTO. What do you think of such a view?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u136	I think that is a positive idea, but it must be borne in mind that it is not always politically accepted by those who wish to join the European Union. Let me give you an example of the debate on the role of the European Union in the United Nations. In itself, I think it is a very sensible idea that, on the basis of this shared responsibility, the EU should comply with these conventions on a number of points. I'd say let's start with this. However, it is also possible to have a discussion on how this could be done. That is the competence of the Commission, but it is always open to suggestions. Thank you for that. Then I come to cross-border cooperation. The subject of cross-border work has received a great deal of attention in the recent period within the cross-border cooperation agenda (GROS, for there is an abbreviation everywhere in Europe). Cross-border labour mobility was a priority issue when the Netherlands was chairman of the Benelux. This has led, among other things, to better information for frontier workers and better digital access, as has already been mentioned. In the coming years, efforts are being made to bring our labour market closer to that of our neighbouring countries. There is now a Benelux recommendation on frontier work. Once again, it is also a motor within the European Union. Two motions for resolutions have been tabled to the budgets for SZW and Economic Affairs for 2015. BZK, EZ and SZW are now making an inventory of the precise obstacles. It also asked how cross-border entrepreneurship could be promoted and which experimental area municipalities would like to promote a cross-border labour market. Parliament will be informed about the implementation of both motions before the summer. Moreover, cross-border cooperation requires willingness on both sides to take steps. The border regions on the Dutch side suffer from higher unemployment than those on the other side of the border. This leads to Flanders and Germany giving less priority to this problem. We are in the process of encouraging them to join us. That is why we are taking these initiatives. The border provinces in the Second and First Chambers require a lot of attention for this cross-border cooperation. They believe that progress is taking too long, but it is important to try to do so with the other side. I have just mentioned a number of results that have perhaps been achieved mainly by the new innovative power of the Benelux countries. There are also things that may seem very simple, but in practice are essential, such as web portals of employment services, border regions and social partners. The first results in the field of youth unemployment have also been requested. That is a very important question. It is very important to reduce unemployment and poverty. That is why these reforms and improvements in national social policy are needed. The Youth Employment Initiative has now been launched, which encourages and supports Member States through the European Social Fund in promoting young people's participation in the labour market. The Commission has previously provided the means to speed up implementation. Projects are co-financed by the Youth Employment Initiative. They have a lead time of several years. The first results are expected this year. That is why I cannot give precise figures on this. The worrying figures on youth unemployment in recent years have led the Commission to propose in February this year to bring forward and make available EUR 1 billion of the EUR 3.2 billion earmarked for 2015. We are positive about accelerating this approach, but it cannot only be changed by European policy. I mentioned a number of problems in several Member States, mainly with regard to their national education, the integration of education and the labour market and the problems of insiders and outsiders. A combination of quite a lot of money, the budgetary situation, the growth that is beginning to attract in many countries and the deepening of a number of aspects of the internal market make it possible to get young people into work and to give them a new perspective. There is more to be said, I realize that, but these are important elements to mention. We have also been asked how we can cooperate with the United Kingdom. My view on this remains that it is now up to the United Kingdom to indicate what it wants itself at a high level, of the Foreign Ministers in Europe. I think this is essential. There are some contours known. Some of them have been mentioned. A rather controversial issue is limited access to the British social system for EU migrants. Another point is better regulation, on which the European Commission has put forward proposals today. It has rightly been said that it may be possible to work together to strengthen national parliaments. Deepening the internal market is an advantage for them too, so that does not seem to me to be a major problem. Of course, it is a much more difficult point for us to change the Treaty, as I said earlier. I believe that we can work a long way together on a number of issues, such as better regulation, national parliaments and deepening the market. I agree with everyone who says that fundamental freedoms must not be affected. The objective is not a weaker Europe but a stronger Europe; more focus, more innovation, more connection, more democratic legitimacy and capacity for action. The approach advocated by the Dutch Government is a better Europe for all and not just for the United Kingdom. As I said in the first instance, the fight against organised crime and international cooperation in this area is high on the Cabinet's agenda. This is a prominent part of item 4 of the strategic agenda for the Union, as set out in the letter of 28 January on substantive priorities. There are also specific initiatives. Perhaps the problem lies in the choice of the word "consolidation." If you do a lot of things in the field of drug trafficking, a fairly large number of priorities have been set that need to be implemented. That doesn't mean that there's a whole series of things to be attached to it. We have cybercrime and the reinforcement of the Public Prosecutor's Office and Europol. We are working on a number of key issues in the area of terrorism and the fight against drugs. I have, of course, read the motion tabled with great sympathy. It gives the impression that it is not being done enough. Nevertheless, I would like to see this as an incentive. I will not say that this is policy support, because Mr Schrijver says that we need to do more, but with this motivation I have a positive opinion on that motion. Mr Backer asked if we could do something more about the budgetary and MFF issues. We're already doing a lot with Article 13. I very much agree with his comment on parliamentary diplomacy. I think we should try to move this one forward. A motion for a resolution was adopted in the House of Representatives on a budget summit to be held next spring. That is complicated, because we are no longer talking about setting summits, but we think this is an essential issue. As with the House of Representatives, I would like to talk to this Chamber about this parliamentary diplomacy, but we need to find a formula for that. Maybe we can organize a seminar on that, see how we can move forward. There's an irritation rate in everyone, including me. This has to do with the way in which we deal with the budget, whether it is about the payments, the times or the way in which own resources should be adjusted. There's a good club working to see if that's the best method. We could take that together and see if it could be taken up by the Presidency next year. I am looking forward to that, but I hope that the Chamber will give me some time to come back and talk about it. There is another question from Mr Schrijver which I have yet to answer. We're about to have a Financing for Development conference. Mr Schrijver will understand that the Minister for Development Cooperation from an old cabinet also sees that we are declining in this government with regard to the percentage. That doesn't mean we can blow too high off the tower. You have to be credible in your international policy. In fact, we will not oppose that percentage. This is also part of the international conference. I know that Mrs Ploumen is discussing this in preparation for her position.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u137	Thank you for this assessment, which the PvdA Group fully shares with you. My question is also intended to confirm that the Minister sees international development efforts, as laid down in the European Consensus on Development, as an important pillar of the integrated approach advocated.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u138	Can you explain that to me?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u139	You have said that you are strongly in favour of an integrated approach to migration, peace and security, development cooperation and the environment. Do you see development aid as a structural part of this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u140	Now I understand what you're saying. I apologize. There are two elements to it, including, of course, the definition of the standard adopted by the OECD. I understand that's not what you're talking about. You are really referring to whether we are creating an integrated approach to migration, on which Mrs Strik has also made a number of comments. The answer is yes. I know that the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation is preparing a number of proposals for this. Moreover, there is already an integrated approach, as shown by our contribution to Mali, but also to a number of other crisis areas. I believe that we should continue to strengthen it, so I very much share the view of the Labour Party. I thank Mr Elzinga for his comments. I do not want to repeat the issue of EU-ECHR, political priority and Commission competence. We're going after that actively. It has been suggested that legal advice should be sought here and there. In any case, there can be no doubt that this is essential. It is quite difficult for me not to go into the blessings of deepening the market and TTIP. I do not want to leave everything to the Foreign Trade and Development Minister, but let me say that I should not repeat myself. As I have said to other colleagues, we really stand for the standards we have, but we also see the risks. We may still have a discussion on whether or not arbitration makes sense. In any case, it seems to me that, from a value approach to the importance of good trade agreements, we need good consultation, with quality above speed. Mrs Strik asked whether sustainable developments in neighbouring countries are not essential for the success of the neighbourhood policy. I very much agree with that. Unsolved problems affect the chances of success of reforms and the prospect of sustainable development in the broad sense of the word. It is not only green, but also social sustainability. He's one of them. Mr Schrijver referred to the integrated approach, to which I think Mrs Strik also refers. It is, of course, about the neighbourhood policy both in the South and in the West. I do not want to simplify things too much, but I saw during my work in Mali that there really is at least an indirect relationship between climate change, the opportunities for, for example, Tuaregs to build a future and the refugee and migration issues. I think this is really essential. We cannot work with short-term solutions that are only repressive in nature. Furthermore, the Middle East peace process and the crisis in Syria, which everyone raised in the first term, are in the picture. That crisis has a great regional appearance. Furthermore, in the East, you have Russian interference in Ukraine and the fact that Russia can strengthen its grip on Moldova and Georgia. The question is what cooperation between these countries is like. That's a complicated matter. Especially in North Africa, it's a problem. Neighbouring countries are becoming increasingly difficult to cope with. Think of Egypt, Algeria and Morocco. We may be able to play a part in this, but at the core it is also their responsibility to achieve regional cooperation. We may be able to encourage them, but I am concerned that the neighbourhood policy is being run with countries that seem to be less of a believer in regional cooperation at the moment. I would just like to point out that it is a complication, of course, not something in which we must remain passive. I agree with Mrs Strik that we should not only be technical, if she meant what she said. It is a rather political approach in which matters of a structural nature also become much more important. This also applies, of course, to the ambitious commitment to energy saving dossiers, directives and energy labelling. Mrs Strik was right to ask. The Netherlands really wants to focus on energy efficiency. After all, saving energy contributes to sustainability and, of course, makes us less dependent on fossil energy. For example, energy labelling for household appliances is essential in order to achieve our energy targets in a cost-effective way, given the potential for savings. It leads to all kinds of sustainability and innovation of products. In the context of energy saving, the Netherlands is therefore committed to an ambitious European resource policy, which will achieve energy savings and maintain the level playing field in that market. This is the basis of the cabinet's commitment to the dossiers mentioned by Mr Klaver, i.e. energy labelling, the Ecodesign Directive and the Energy Performance Building Environment Directive.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u141	Minister, may I ask how much longer you think you need?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u142	Ten minutes, can you or do you think it's too long? Five minutes?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u143	Ten minutes we save, but at 11:30 it's ready, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u144	I like to follow up on new suggestions. Let me make a number of comments on the integrated approach to migration, including those made by Mrs Strik. I think it is really important that the European Union has speeded up the integrated approach on the basis of the ten-point plan. There's still a lot of hooks and eyes on that. I really ask that the cabinet should not be directly pinned on very specific motions, given that the cabinet has not yet taken a position on this issue and that this should also be discussed in the Lower House. Let me say here to reassure you that we are in favour of the integrated approach and solidarity within Europe. I'll just say that the devil is in the details. We will therefore take a constructive stance. Military action is only acceptable if there is an international mandate from the UN Security Council. The motion has been tabled with regard to keeping you to the ECHR, international law and asylum treaties. Of course, we see this motion as a support for policy. We are complying with the treaties to which we have to abide. I can assure you of that. That's the cabinet's approach. Furthermore, I cannot anticipate the specific points that we will then take into account. This is really part of European policy. So I do not want to anticipate that. I would ask you to hold the motion on that point, otherwise I will have to advise against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u145	The Minister indicated that he could not support the motion so positively, but I deliberately kept the operative part very broadly. I said support the principle of division. I did not say: the precise proposal before the Commission. I have just taken out the details in the hope that Minister could proactively support the spirit.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u146	I think I said that this is the government's approach. The cabinet hasn't even met on this. We are now having this general discussion with Europe. We have set a number of benchmarks for this. You know the proposals. They are then dealt with in the Lower House. Maybe it's a good thing that we come back to you afterwards to answer for it. In that sense, I would like to say that the motion is perhaps a little premature. You have the choice to file the motion. If you submit her in this way, I'll advise her at this time for that reason. Then I come to a number of questions from Mr Koffeman. Excuse me, I forgot a question from Mrs Strik; I apologize for that. This question concerns the tax rulings. The Dutch Government has said that tax competition along the tax rulings is not correct if there is no clarity between Member States. In my view, this is a real shift in policy. The Dutch government really supports this. There is always tension between the right to information and the duty of tax confidentiality. That applies to every taxpayer. This means that at least data is not provided in public. The obligation of confidentiality is of too great importance and is also laid down by law. Sometimes information for your Chamber will be needed for democratic control. In that case, confidential access may be possible, but the Chamber should really discuss this with the Secretary of State for Finance. However, let there be no misunderstanding: the Dutch Government has changed its tax rulings policy and the way in which we work together in this area in Europe. Then I come to Mr Koffeman's points. With regard to TTIP, I say that it is indeed a question of defending important values. This will be the subject of further debate. We are very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, We also want to exchange this democratically with the Chamber. [[Sentence could not be parsed: De heer Koffeman had het over in een schuitje meevaren.]] I understand his reasoning. There's always a risk that you'll issue a jurisdiction and then come into a certain logic that you wonder how you'll get out. I also noticed in the debate that there are different opinions on when to transfer powers. As far as the Dutch Government is concerned, this transfer of powers will never take place without permission. You can't. In this sense, we will also be accountable to your Chamber. You can also set your limits here. I still owe Mr Koffeman an answer to his question on the Habitats Directive. I would ask him to be able to do so in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u147	Mr. Koffeman is gone. So I think it is a good idea to do this in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u148	Then I will. Then I can give him specific information. Finally, I would like to thank Mr De Lange very much for his contribution. I think his comment on no bail-out and the ECB is an important contribution to the democratic debate. I don't want to take it off with that. I have given a number of arguments why I believe that the European Central Bank has played a rather positive role in reducing some elements of the crisis. Some people even say "but I will not repeat this on behalf of the government................................................................................................................................................................................................ I would like to thank the Chamber very much for the questions put and for the debate. I have come to the end of my second-term response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u149	I still lack an answer to a question from the PVV Group, namely whether the Minister is prepared to investigate further the extent of the foreign funding of Islamic organisations in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u150	My problem with that question is that it doesn't really respect me. It is about European politics. With all due respect, I think that question should be put to the Minister for Social Affairs. Perhaps you remember that the cabinet did some research on parallel communities in the Netherlands a while ago. That research focused in particular on one of the organisations you mentioned, namely Diyanet. Colleague Asscher informed the House last year about the outcome of the investigation and mentioned a number of active measures. Organisations coming here from abroad, for example, are subject to certain obligations. Think transparency, financial reporting, etc. This also often happens when Dutch churches or Dutch NGOs support fellow believers in other countries. Mr Asscher also stated in that letter that he would inform the Chamber about the progress of the measures and their consequences. I imagine you'll get that letter, too. At least you will have an answer to that question. If you want to go further, you really will have to ask another minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u151	Finally, Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u152	You say that this is a debate on the European Union. Then let's go wider. Let us then look at the scale of the money flows across the European Union. Mr Asscher's letter does not mention the extent of the money flows. We know those money flows are there. The size of it is very interesting. Then you can see how much foreign interest is in these organisations within the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u153	I have no problem with your reasoning on my own. It is always important to have transparency and to have clarity about which types of international funding are at stake in the Netherlands and in Europe. That is quite apart from the fact that you may come to another conclusion as to whether or not this is right. I have just said that the Dutch Government has carried out an investigation into a number of elements of parallel communities. That makes sense to us, too. The Minister for Social Affairs will inform you about this. And as far as those broader, more general flows in Europe are concerned, with all due respect, we are not talking about everything. We have national sovereignty to some extent, so I can't investigate everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u154	Minister, I understand that you have completed your second-term response. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-12.u155	I propose that we vote next week on the motions tabled.
