ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-4.u1	Mr. Chairman. In 38 municipalities this year, construction fee increases by more than 10% and in 11 municipalities, this fee falls by more than 10%. For a small renovation, a resident of the municipality of Buren pays €900 and a resident of the municipality of Leiden only €38. A large renovation or new construction costs €7,740, in the municipality of Eindhoven, while this costs no more than €1,826 in the municipality of Hoogeveen. The research published yesterday by the Association Eigen Huis on construction shelves shows remarkable differences. The fact that there are differences between municipalities is not, in itself, a problem. It is up to the municipalities themselves to set their prices. It's a shame there's no level to be reached. The level of fees is not sufficiently clear. Thus there are also differences per municipality that are not easy to understand. The differences between one year and the other year in one and the same municipality are also surprising. Unfortunately, this applies not only to construction platforms, but also, for example, to empty drinks and catering. A full permit costs €2,481 in fees in the most expensive municipality and only €28 in the cheapest municipality. The differences in fees between childcare permits are also large; we have discussed this earlier. That is why I would like to ask the Minister a number of questions about the clarity of the fees. Has the Minister taken note of the investigation of the Association's Own House? What does he think of the conclusions of this investigation? What does the Minister think of the fact that the differences in fees not only exist between municipalities, but also in one and the same municipality once a year? What does the Minister think of the proposal of the Association Eigen Huis to arrive at a uniform cost calculation? Does he agree with the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats that transparency, clarity and comparability in pricing are necessary, perhaps in order to justify the differences? Is the Minister prepared to discuss with the VNG the report of the Eigen Huis Vereniging on the construction fee and other fees, such as liquor and catering permits and childcare permits? Is the Minister prepared to make agreements with municipalities in order to achieve a uniform cost calculation so that differences become transparent and transparent?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-4.u2	I give the floor to the Minister for the Interior to answer these questions in two minutes. Good luck!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-4.u3	Mr. Chairman. The starting point, on which I do not believe we disagree, is that it is in principle up to the municipalities to determine the amount of the fee. That's part of municipal autonomy. However, this is limited by the fact that the proceeds of the fee may not exceed the costs incurred, but that is true for the whole domain of, for example, the Environmental License. This can indeed lead to a €38 fee for building a rooftop chapel in the municipality of Leiden, for example. This is certainly much lower than the cost, but it can be done either by subsidising it from other sources, or by charging the project developer higher fees, for example, for new construction projects, so that it can be solved with lower fees for the small house owner. That choice is ultimately up to the city council. I do agree that it is important that the cost structure is transparent. Firstly, it is, of course, the responsibility of the city council to ask the college of B and W. But I will also come forward with proposals to increase transparency in the implementation of the results of the Budget Decision and accountability pathway. Let me give you a specific answer to the questions that have been asked. I read the letter. I do not agree with the conclusion that the cost calculation should be uniform if that means that pricing should be uniform. I believe that this should remain the responsibility of the municipality, but I do agree that transparency is necessary. I agree that I will address this issue in a subsequent administrative consultation with the UNG.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you. Mr. Veldman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-4.u5	I would like to thank the Minister for the promise that he will at least discuss this with the UNG, but I would like him to take it one more step. We agree on the fact that pricing may vary by municipality. It is also up to the city council and the college of B and W to set the rates, but transparency is necessary in order to compare whether a municipality does so in a good way. The same applies to city council members themselves. We need to be able to see whether we are doing it in a good way. I think it will then help to achieve a uniform cost calculation if everyone uses the same method. How you then translate the cost, whether you charge it in full or 80% or 70%, because you finance part of it from other means, for example from the general funds, that is to the city council. However, every citizen must be able to see how the tariff was created. I assume that the Minister agrees with me that the differences that have now been observed are very large in the case of building shelves, liquor and catering permits, childcare and other matters. For the average resident, the average applicant, it becomes very difficult to check whether he pays too much in his municipality. Sensitively, everyone will have that soon, but to back that up, you need to be able to make a comparison.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-4.u6	I suggest that budget law should be with the city council. This means that the city council must know what budget, fees and fees are being set. That should be transparent across the board. If that is not the case, municipal council members should be able to ask about it. For my part, I would like to stress that the municipal authorities should aim for greater transparency in any case. However, when it comes to uniformity, we have to face up to the fact that it is permissible for a local authority to charge less expense to the small houseowner for permits under the Environmental Act, for example, and that it compensates for higher fees by project developers, as long as it does not incur more fees across the board than costs are incurred. They have freedom. At that point, I wouldn't want to make it uniform. If that is decided in the uniformization of the cost calculation, I shall make a reservation in that regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-4.u7	I agree with the Minister that the city council has that right. The city council is about how the rate is set, but the way in which that rate is reached must be transparent and transparent. Then a city council, whether or not fed by the residents of the municipality, can discuss whether or not they agree. That can only be done if you have made it transparent and insightful.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-4.u8	I agree with that conclusion. Without wishing to enter into the autonomy of the municipal administration, I would like to do everything I can to achieve that. I undertake to raise this issue explicitly in a subsequent consultation with the UNG.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-4.u9	Thank you for the answers and for coming to the Chamber.
