ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-9.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Economic Affairs, like all the others present in the Chamber. I give the floor to the first speaker, Mrs Schouten.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-9.u2	Mr. Chairman. We have recently talked intensively about the situation in Emmen with Philips Lighting and, more broadly, about employment in Drenthe, in the North of the Netherlands. I asked for specific possibilities to improve the employment situation there. This region is lagging behind other regions in the Netherlands. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that hundreds of jobs are directly and indirectly under pressure from the planned closure of Philips in Emmen;]] [[Whereas it is desirable to maintain and grow employment by removing thresholds for companies wishing to expand, export or recover work from abroad;]] [[Calls on the Government, the Region of Emmen-Coevorden-Hoogeveen-Hardenberg, to support the use of ERDF grants, INTERREG grants and national schemes to improve the business environment and investment climate;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how a regional investment scheme in this region can be used as an incentive for investment in employment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Schouten and Mr Agnes Mulder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32637-170]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-9.u3	During the general consultation we also discussed the use of the INTERREG and ERDF grants. I found that, for example, the conditions surrounding ERDF grants are sometimes quite strict, and good things can be done with them. Is the Minister prepared to examine the scope of the subsidies and whether the conditions are sometimes too narrow? That would be a shame, because that would leave money on the shelf. I'd like to hear a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-9.u4	Mr. Chairman. The CDA has another question about the Mulder/Schouten motion on facilitating an experiment with postings in Germany. Part of this motion has already been dealt with by the Minister, namely the section on the BB students. The Minister made a commitment to this during the general consultation; thank you for that. We are curious whether the Minister can provide some clarity on the legal framework conditions, costs, benefits and risks for employees, apprenticeship intermediaries and German employers. Perhaps the Minister could make specific reference to this point in the motion. He said during the debate on the border impact test that he was working on it. In part, we have already received a clear answer, for which we are grateful. This point was not quite clear to me, hence my question. During the same debate we tabled another motion. The Minister was going to come back to that. It concerns the motion that I tabled together with Mr Omtzigt. This was about the situation in which the employer has to report in advance and translate both the contract of employment and the pay slip into German if employees work in Germany, even for a few hours. The Minister would come back to that. Maybe he can do that today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-9.u5	Mr. Chairman. A few weeks ago, we talked about business policy and, above all, about the Emmen region and its surroundings. In doing so, we have exchanged a number of things, including the considerable amount of existing arrangements for companies and regions to give a swipe to the economy. Talks show that it is rather complicated to make the many grant schemes, the many possibilities, appropriate to a specific situation. We also talked about the fact that the Ministry, this minister, has often successfully intervened with a number of other companies that were falling over or could start them, such as Nedcar, ALDEL and Thermphos. That is why I am tabling the next motion on behalf of the PvdA Group. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Philips Lighting announced that it would close its branch in Emmen and that a number of other companies would be reorganised;]] [[Considering that this represents 1,500 jobs at risk and that this has a significant impact on the region;]] [[Whereas initiatives are being taken in the region to create new jobs;]] [[calls on the Government to act in consultation with the region on these employment plans, to provide support where necessary and to report to the Court on them;]] [[calls on the Government to include the experience gained by the Ministry in interventions at other companies, such as Nedcar, NRG, ALDEL and Thermphos;]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether there is room for manoeuvre in the budget and to involve the unreserved funds and the end-of-year reserve,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Member Mei Li Vos. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32637-171]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-9.u6	Mr. Chairman. We can look back on a good AO Business Life Policy and Innovation, which was rightly the focus of the VVD on the situation of Philips Lighting in Emmen. One of these days, the task force will come up with its results. The Minister has already promised to inform us about this. I also welcome the commitments made by the Minister in the field of our TO2 institutions, which have capital-intensive installations, and on the preservation of them in the future and the way in which they could do so. I also welcome the Minister's commitment that the Rathenau Institute will conduct research into the removal of our top management from the Netherlands. During the debate, we also discussed the difficulty that it takes for companies to employ employees from outside the EU. On that occasion, I shall table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, according to the Modern Migration Policy Act, fees are charged from more than €5,000 for the "application for recognition of employment";]] [[Whereas these fees for start-ups wishing to attract specifically skilled knowledge workers are a high threshold;]] [[calls on the Government to examine whether these fees can be reduced without prejudice to the cost-covering nature of this fee,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Veen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32637-172]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-9.u7	Madam President. There has been talk of various subsidies and aid schemes. It would be very confusing, but I think it's pretty clear. There are a number of regulations, particularly European ones, which you can make good use of in the border regions. One such scheme is the ERDF. In addition, there is INTERREG. There is also the ESF. These are European regulations which are subject to conditions. We can't just change that. These are European conditions, which apply to 28 countries. These are good regulations, which can also be used in Drenthe. Furthermore, we have our sector plans. A sum of 600 million was originally made available for this purpose. The necessary funds have been allocated to all kinds of projects and applications for new projects can be made before 29 May. This is a Dutch scheme. So before 29 May, Drenthe can again try to find cover for initiatives. I think that these arrangements are clear in themselves, but I can imagine that in the case of specific Drentse needs and plans, the province could use support to see how the plans could be put in place here and how they might be adjusted a little, so that they could be better accommodated there. I'm very willing to give Drenthe that support. To this end, I will also understand myself with the Drenthe board to see how we can work together to ensure that the province makes the best use of the available arrangements. We must be aware that we have decided in this House that regional economic policy is up to the provinces. The budget of the Ministry of Economic Affairs is no longer available for this purpose. I cannot now anticipate money that may be left by the end of the year. The developments in my budget now indicate that I am going to lack money. It's really a concern for me that I have problems getting cover for the expectations and developments that I need to find cover for. I don't have a visual on any money that gets out. We must realise that the Ministry of Economic Affairs, including the former LNV part, is a shrinking ministry if the part of energy is kept completely out of it. In a four-year period, a quarter of the budget goes down. Moreover, the Ministry's budget is already tight in the current year. I just explained that. I must contradict the expectations of money that would be left to finance things for which I did not get a budget from the Chamber. That's not possible. In the motion by Mrs Schouten and Mrs Mulder on item No. 170 the government is asked to cooperate with the province of Drenthe and the municipalities in the area concerned in order to see how best use can be made of the schemes. That's not a problem, I want to do that, but I don't have any money for a regional investment scheme. I don't want to raise expectations. For this reason, I advise against this motion, which relates in particular to the second part.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-9.u8	The second point explicitly states that it must be examined. The Minister said during the general consultation that he does not see any opportunities for this at the moment, but he just pointed out that, for example, there would be a new tranche of the employment plans of the Minister for Social Affairs. There are always small openings that can sometimes be used, but which the province does not always have a view on. That is what this question is looking at in the motion for a resolution. Is the Minister prepared to bring it to the attention of Drenthe if such an opportunity arises?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-9.u9	I am prepared to work with the province and the municipalities to see the possibilities offered by the existing schemes such as the sectoral plans, the ERDF grant, the INTERREG and the ESF. On that point, I have no reservations. The second part of the operative part, however, requires me to examine how a regional investment scheme can be put in place. There can be no regional investment scheme, because I have no money in the budget for that. I don't have any money left either, and I really don't want to raise expectations on this point. If the second part of the operative part were to lapse and the text of the motion would be limited to the first question ending with the words "the business environment and the investment climate for companies," then "and goes on to the order of the day," I would leave the judgment to the Chamber, but with the current wording, I would advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-9.u10	I will consider whether I can amend the motion. I think it is very important that the region is fully supported in everything there is. I shall look at that again with the addition that the Minister has already said that he will leave the motion to the House's judgement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-9.u11	I can confirm this. Mrs Mulder referred to a different general consultation and not to the general consultation on which this VAO is directed. She asked what's going on with the other AO. I don't know if a VAO about another AO is the best opportunity to communicate with the Chamber about that. During that other general discussion, I responded to what Mrs Mulder said. That's the answer. I have already said that I will send this reply to the Chamber at the end of March/beginning of April. This concerns both the Mulder/Schouten motion in part No. 15 of 4 February 2015 as the Mulder/Omtzigt motion to piece No. 16 of 4 February 2015. So I will return to both motions at the end of this month, at the latest in early April.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-9.u12	Now I know when that letter, which says how the Minister looks at both motions, comes to the Chamber. Indeed, these motions were tabled at another debate, but in an AO after that I asked for the follow-up. This VAO is another sequel to that AO. That's why I thought it makes sense to ask what's going on with this place right now. Thank you for this clear commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-9.u13	I am always happy to leave it to Mrs Mulder what she wants to bring up here. I have already given my response in the last AO, but I am grateful for the opportunity to do so again now and to be able to attach a time mark to it. Mrs Vos served the motion in part No. 171 in. She asked me to consult with the region and to take into account the experience gained by the Ministry. We have already discussed this in general consultation, so Mrs Vos knows that we are participating in the task force headed by Mr Wientjes, who is looking at the possibilities of closing down the Philips plant in Emmen. We use all our knowledge, skills and experience. Mrs Vos also asks me to check whether there is room in the budget and to include the unreserved funds and the end-of-year reserve. Unfortunately, that is what I have just said. The final wording of this motion, "calls on the Minister to examine whether there is room for manoeuvre in the budget, including the non-reserved resources and the year-end reserve," leads me to the conclusion that I should advise her not to do so. If that last sentence were to lapse, I would leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-9.u14	I ask the Minister to follow up on this. I know he doesn't know how much is on there yet. I am particularly concerned about what we have exchanged about what the Minister and Mr Wientjes are doing in that task force. It may be that there is a specific question. I think the Minister has already said it more or less, but I would like to keep the possibility open that the answer is not 'no' when there is such a specific question of resources. So it's a question of checking. I know the Minister is tight, but this was not a direct request for that money to come out right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-9.u15	I'm not gonna raise expectations at the Chamber that I can't live up to. I have to talk to the Minister of Finance shortly about how my budget is going for the current year and about my expectations for the next year. Those will be very difficult discussions. For this year I see absolutely no room, quite the contrary. I am not going to say that I want to check whether there is room in the budget, because I do not see any room in the budget; I already know that. And I'm not going to anticipate the year-end reserve either. Today it is 25 March; I am not going to anticipate the end-of-year reserve already? I really can't do that. I am prepared to think along with the provinces and the municipalities and to look at the possibilities within the existing budgets and regulations. I don't have a view on extras, so I don't want to raise expectations in that area. If that last sentence remains in the motion, I must discourage the motion. If the sentence were to lapse, I'd leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-9.u16	I'll think about that for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-9.u17	Now for Mr Van Veen's motion to item No. 172. Mr Van Veen called for a review of the fee for the 'application for recognition of employment'. He says that companies wishing to obtain knowledge workers from abroad can be treated in different ways. He says that the fee for a large company is not a problem, but it is for small companies. That is true, but costs must be incurred. I am prepared to investigate whether there is anything that can be done about the cost of emptying small businesses. I'm already working on that, by the way. For that reason, I shall leave the vote on this motion to the Chamber. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-9.u18	We will vote next Tuesday on the motions tabled.
