ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-10.u1	Perhaps the Minister could take a seat in trade-k. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Van Tongeren from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-10.u2	Mr. Chairman. As far as wind at sea is concerned, the Minister and I are actually two souls in one breast, but of course GroenLinks would like to see some more wind at sea, apart from the Minister's ambition. The ESC agreement states that there should be a robust legal framework for wind roll-out at sea by 1 January this year. Unfortunately, we do not yet see that robust framework. This year, a tender was to be launched. For this, the wind energy at sea Act, the STROOM Act that we have not yet seen, as well as the lot decision and the SDE+ scheme by the Chamber. GroenLinks is worried about that. We would like to receive a timeline from the Minister. How does he plan to get all this through the Second and First Chambers this year and to complete the tender in time? Who is liable if the wind farm can't get on the net in time, because TenneT hasn't managed to connect the parks yet? This is not a rhetorical question, because this situation has occurred in Germany. Before companies want to invest in wind farms, they want to make sure that the wind farm, the moment it is ready, can also be connected. Why did the Minister amend the bill on wind energy at sea in the sense that the existing permits will not expire until 2016 but immediately after the law has been passed? Why is he in such a hurry to throw away old shoes before there's new ones? Until the tender Dutch Coast, which is only scheduled for 2017, the existing permits are not in the way. I originally requested this debate because the existing licences were set aside unilaterally. The Minister's argument was that this would generate a lot of money, namely 4.3 billion. We have repeatedly asked the Minister if we could get something to check this out. The Chamber would still very much like to receive the full reports of Vision Netdesign and rollout strategy and the DNV GL document Review - Netdesign and rollout strategy, so that the Chamber can check the sums and thus follow the minister. Does the Minister intend to include this still unclear saving in the budget for wind at sea? What happens if this additional cost reduction is not achieved? How much cost reduction compared to the old system is the Minister counting on until 2023? How much compensation is the Minister going to give for the expiry of the existing permits? My final point concerns the windmill port in the Netherlands. Several ports in the Netherlands see that wind farms at sea can generate considerable employment. You can now see that the Eemshaven and the ports of Den Helder, IJmuiden and Vlissingen are all fighting to become a windmill port of the Netherlands, with corresponding employment. That's what public money is invested in. Is the Minister prepared to coordinate that so that no public money will flow away, but we really are taking the market from more work with wind at sea? I see I have one second left, and I use that time to thank the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-10.u3	That's the best way to use the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-10.u4	Mr. Chairman. Windmills do not run on wind, but on subsidies. If you remove the subsidy, there will be no windmills at sea. Thus the nine old permits for the construction of wind turbines at sea lapse. This is good news for taxpayers, for oil and gas extraction, for fishing, for shipping and for recreational activities, especially for beach tent holders. It is good news for all hardworking people in the Netherlands. Unfortunately, this is only half the story. Thanks to this VVD Minister, the old permits will be subject to a whole system of new permits. And that, while the Central Planning Bureau, the government's main advisor, has calculated that building large offshore wind farms costs society EUR 5 billion more than it brings, even if the benefits are taken into account. This is not only due to the damage to these sectors, but also, above all, to the fact that the necessary billions of investments do not outweigh the output revenues. No less than EUR 18 billion is needed to bridge that gap. I keep saying it: I find it incomprehensible that the entire Chamber, apart from the PVV, is in agreement with this misconception. Moreover, the construction of the network at sea is not yet included. That's gonna cost billions, too. Can the Minister indicate how many billions of euros the total cost of the network at sea should all windmill plans continue? It is clear that the arrival of windmills at sea will lead to job losses in these sectors. It is still unclear to what extent, but I assume that the Minister will not deny that a loss of 150 million to 350 million for the recreational sector alone will be at the expense of jobs. Dutch jobs are also coming back, as we are always told. My question then is: what jobs? Last week we read that the minister made a deal with Chinese investors for wind farms at sea. The windmills themselves are mainly built by the German Siemens or the Danish Vestas. This raises the question of how many Dutch jobs we actually get for this EUR 18 billion subsidy. In short, I would like to know from the Minister exactly what that deal with the Chinese means. Are they just bringing money, or are they coming here to take advantage of that grant pot?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-10.u5	Mr. Chairman. This debate has been on the list for some time. That is why it falls between all kinds of debates and legislative processes that are currently under way. That is a bit inherent in the thirty-member debate. Wind at sea costs, but there are also benefits ahead. Only the numbers of those costs and benefits vary quite a bit, depending on which agency you let go of them. A few weeks ago we talked about this when we talked about the energy agreement. At that time, the Minister mentioned figures. Has another insight come between then and now? Can the Minister share that with us? I have taken up the piece from The Financial Daily on the basis of which the debate has been requested. The final sentences are: "In the original plans, 450 megawatts were expected to receive funding in 2015 up to 900 megawatts by 2020. Now Kamp wants funding to be available every year for 700 megawatts over the next five years." Is that another relevant phrase, or has it been overtaken by the situation? Finally, I would perhaps like to draw attention to the costs for those who ultimately pay for the renewable energy incentive programme at a slightly different pitch than Mrs Klever. For certain groups of households, this can be restrictive. Does the Minister see that, too? If so, will he take action to accommodate those households that are already struggling to make ends meet? Depending on his reaction, I'm considering a little motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-10.u6	We've been warned.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-10.u7	Do I hear the SP worrying about the cost of the energy agreement for households? Did I get that correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-10.u8	For those who are already difficult to get by, any increase in a tax is, of course, a loss of blood; that is the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-10.u9	I welcome this insight from the Socialist Party. It's just a little late, because the SP has already agreed to that tax increase for households. They're going to pay about 250 more for their energy bill. But can we perhaps table a motion together in the light of this changed understanding? Is the SP in favour of abolishing the SDE tax?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-10.u10	Mrs Klever and I do not disagree on the point that you should not actually raise a tax very much for households who are struggling to make ends meet. However, I would prefer to deal with this through the tax plan, as I said to Mrs Klever once before. Otherwise, you're gonna try on every file to make every tax dependent. I find that less convenient than when you deal with the tax plan at once. A motion together? Mrs Klever knows me: anytime, but we must be on the same page. And that is not always the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-10.u11	Mr. Chairman. In the energy agreement it was agreed that we placed 4,450 megawatts of wind at sea in 2023. This is part of the government's ambitions to give renewable energy in the Netherlands a huge boost. As a group, we are very much in favour of this. What we are talking about even more is the momentum with which this cabinet is implementing that agenda at the moment. As an MP, I get a lot of e-mails and phone calls and a lot of people at my desk. 99 out of 100 times these people have a complaint about something better, but when it comes to implementing wind at sea there is almost nothing but praise. I'd like to share that once in a while. Those compliments go to the cabinet. I would like to hear from the Minister about the handling of permits which are no longer in force as a result of the amended plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-10.u12	Was that your input?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-10.u13	Correct. You will undoubtedly be pleased with the two minutes and three seconds left on my watch.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-10.u14	You're my favorite MP today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-10.u15	Those two minutes, unfortunately, may be the answer to my question. With the PvdA we share the enthusiasm about more wind at sea, but we are a little more concerned about the pace. One of the reasons for the delay is that it has been said that TenneT can make a central stop point better than a stop point per wind farm. The Minister has given the figures on how much that saves. I would like to hear from Mr Vos what his understanding of this cost reduction is. What's this all about? I don't follow, but Mr Vos is very enthusiastic about the plans, so I'm sure he can explain this to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-10.u16	Any cost savings are great. I also know the Minister as extremely cost-effective. The VVD has a lot of eye for the burdens anyway. In my own group this is sometimes a little less and with Mrs Van Tongeren's group even less. For the time being, I am very satisfied with the objectives achieved, especially with the 40% reduction in costs. Like Mrs Van Tongeren, I am very curious how it will all work out. A lot is work in progress right now. It's a massive operation being carried out here. The House must then accept it a little bit, and I say that to the Green Left Group that it cannot put salt on every snail.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-10.u17	I don't think 4.2 billion is a snail, even for the PvdA. GroenLinks' credit transfers are correct. Mr Vos cannot agree with the content, but they are financially sound. By doing it centrally, a cost reduction of 10% would be expected. Does Mr Vos agree with that? How can 10% of the cost of infrastructure at sea amount to 3 billion? What TenneT's gonna put there isn't gonna cost 30 billion, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-10.u18	I think you asked the Minister the same question. I have given my answer and I refer to the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-10.u19	Mr. Chairman. Recently we received Felipe Calderón, former President of Mexico and Chairman of the Global Commission on the Economy and Climate in our Parliament. Accompanied by Chad Holliday and Andrew Steer, he presented the Better Growth, Better Climate report; The New Climate Economy. If we can believe the reports of this committee, wind energy at sea could be much earlier without subsidies. Has the Minister also received this information and, if so, how does he view it? We have the same questions as GroenLinks: what about the justification for this cost reduction? Maybe we can get some insight into that one more time. The CDA wants wind energy to be realised as far off the coastline as possible. Coastal municipalities, even with a government of the minister's political colour, do not want these mills to be located within the 12 mile zone. How much more cost would the placing of windmills above the Wadden and in IJmuiden Ver mean, according to the Minister's calculations, in relation to the locations off the Dutch coast? Does the Minister give initiators the room to build the wind farms further away?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-10.u20	We shall now return to the last speaker in the first term on the part of the Chamber, and that is Mr Veegte of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-10.u21	Mr. Chairman. Three weeks ago, we spoke in this Chamber about the energy agreement. My great concern then, three weeks ago, was that, as a Chamber, we, by a large majority, gave the responsibility to shape energy policy out of the hands of civil society organisations. I said at the time that this was not the choice of the VVD but that, if we give that responsibility out of our hands by a majority, we should have the confidence that it will be all right. Soon we will be discussing the legislative proposal on wind energy at sea in this Chamber. After years of change, there is now an agreement for a robust path for the development of renewable energy. In 2016 we will evaluate whether this is going well. That is the time for any adjustments. Over the past five years, I have often heard that energy policy in the Netherlands is too volatile. At the same time, I see that we have a lot of energy debates and that every energy debate leads to proposals to do just the same again. Investors who will have to finance the energy transition are also looking at the Netherlands. They look at policy risks, at the risk that political or government agreements can undermine. With the calculator they look at the possible returns: which country gives the most certainty to get returns on the invested assets? That's their important question. That certainty that investors seek, I repeat, has a lot to do with the stability of policies. As my colleague Michiel van Veen always says, image damage kills the investment climate. I am therefore concerned that all such debates will contribute to a stable investment environment. I am concerned if these debates will help to shape the energy transition robustly. I have one brief substantive arrangement. One of the debates that has not been held within the Energy Agreement concerns the outcome of the third table, which looks at the exportability of energy techniques. The idea of this table is, of course, excellent, because if we are able to sell energy technologies which are negotiable on the world market, we have techniques that can compete with oil, coal and gas. Then the energy transition will also fly. It is not the issue right now, but in addition to understanding the actual impact of the energy agreement in terms of CO reduction and cost, this should be the focus of the energy debate. So this is also about the investment climate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-10.u22	That was your term. There is another question from Mrs Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-10.u23	The VVD Group and I share the concern that the investment climate becomes more unattractive when policies are constantly changing. My question is therefore whether Mr Leegte also suddenly, in the current year, withdraws the licences for wind at sea and adjusts the SDE grant scheme in the current year does not qualify as such an event which makes the policy in the Netherlands not long-term the same but suddenly changes, with the result that it is more unattractive for investors.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-10.u24	No, what I'm saying is that these kinds of debates can cause image damage to the Netherlands' investment climate. As my colleague Michiel van Veen has always said, image damage kills the investment climate. Investors are watching. They see us, and if they keep seeing us having this kind of debate, when, just three weeks ago, we had a serious debate on the energy agreement and we are about to talk about the law on wind at sea, which deals with all these issues, the question arises: what does the House of Representatives want now? That's what I'm worried about. With regard to the implementation of the Energy Agreement, the Parties have themselves agreed that licences will expire if they do not contribute to the standardised roll-out of wind at sea. That is their agreement, and I think it is wise that we also keep their agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-10.u25	I am pleased that the VVD estimates a minority debate, requested by GroenLinks, so much more important for investors than an actual decision, which will also require the Minister to pay compensation, in order to change the scheme over the course of the subsidy year. So it is more the amount of debates on which the VVD Group believes investors are reacting than the actual policy that the minister puts in place?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-10.u26	No, what I'm saying is that I think this kind of debate is a waste of everyone's time and I'm worried about the image damage that it causes. Investors will ask themselves: what is happening in the Netherlands around wind at sea again? What I think is sensible is for the Minister to implement the agreements contained in the energy agreement. It has been agreed between the licensing parties that licences will continue to exist as long as they contribute to the standardised roll-out. They don't, and so they fall. That's just the policy. It is wise to carry out that robustly and quietly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-10.u27	Thank you. We're gonna listen to the minister, because he can answer right away. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-10.u28	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Van Tongeren said that there is no robust legal framework yet. She is concerned about this and wonders whether this is not causing any delay. I am glad that Mrs Van Tongeren has this as a point of attention, because on 17 October I presented that robust legal framework to the Chamber. I'm not asking you to deal with that in a week, but maybe in a month? It could have been. It's been three and a half months. I hope the Chamber will be able to deal with this soon. If so, I will then, if the Chamber agrees, quickly go with it to the First Chamber. Then we can make it a real law. But the proposal has been there for three and a half months. Mrs Van Tongeren wonders who is liable if the connection of wind farms at sea is not delivered by TenneT in time. I am not so afraid that this will happen, because TenneT is a very experienced network operator, who is also active in Germany, except in the Netherlands. I think TenneT is well placed to ensure, with its expertise and experience, that the wind farms we are going to build are connected to the sea in good time. In the event that this is not the case, I take the view in the STROOM Act that there will be a liability regime which in that case compensates the wind farm operators. This means that these wind farm operators do not have to take into account that they may not be connected and therefore do not have to ask for any amounts for it. I think the connection's coming up. They do not have to charge any sums, because we include a liability regime in that law. This problem, which was rightly raised by Mrs Van Tongeren, has been solved. We'd already foreseen this in the pieces. Mrs Van Tongeren also wonders why we have been in such a hurry to drop the existing permits. We need to realize that there was a tender at the time. A lot of them were involved. One won the tender and the other permits should expire. Because then you needed a permit to participate in the tender. If you lose that tender, it's over and the license expires. At that time, there were chamber motions asking for those permits to be maintained. That's what happened. Now we finally have the new approach, standardized, with TenneT doing the connections, with a legal framework in which we ourselves take the lead and do the research. We've all set it all up now as I think we should. That means that we really can't use the existing permits and we can't renew them. We've had a discussion with the Chamber. Those existing permits are really out of the question right now. The only thing that remains to be dealt with now is to look at what real costs were incurred last year for which compensation should be considered. As the licences have remained above the market, we now have to pay a fee. Anyway, we're looking at how high that fee will have to be. Good consultation is now under way. I'm trying to wrap that up. When the time comes, I'll let the Chamber know what it cost in the end. Then Mrs Van Tongeren said that she has been asking for reports for a long time and that she is not getting that information. I need to see what it's all about. Mrs Van Tongeren spoke about the fact that I indicated that, as a result of standardisation and the use of TenneT, an amount of 3 billion could be saved. Mrs Van Tongeren asks how that is. $3 billion will be saved. That 3 billion is part of the total cost savings to be made on the wind at sea. That total cost savings should be 40%. It does not need to be achieved at once, but it must be achieved in a number of years. A part of this cost reduction is provided by TenneT with the 3 billion savings. As a result, there is a residual amount for industry to get that 40%. With that remaining amount, the industry really has to come. If they do not come up with that, then the tenders cannot lead to a result and no instructions can be given. The cost savings are part of the energy agreement and must really be delivered. Part of it is now realized by TenneT. The 3 billion is an important contribution to this. The challenge for the energy sector is to realise the rest. Reports have been published on the savings of 3 billion, a report by TenneT and a report by DNV GL. Those reports have been made public versions that actually have everything in them. The only thing that is not in it is the confidential data from the market consultation, which shows what TenneT should be paying for certain things. If you disclose such things, TenneT's suppliers know exactly what amounts TenneT takes into account. TenneT's gonna pay more than it needs. That's why you're disturbing the market and the competition. The public versions of the reports are available. It contains everything, except the confidential results of the market consultations. If I did make those results known, it would have a negative impact on the outcome of the tenders. This would cause unnecessary costs for the taxpayer and the energy bill holder. That's why this isn't happening. However, at Greenpeace's request, TenneT provided insight into the models and calculations used. In addition to the public version, Greenpeace has also gained insight into the technique behind it. Anything that can be made public has been made public. I'm not going to make any more public.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-10.u29	This may have been explained to Greenpeace, but the Chamber is not Greenpeace. I quote from the public version of that report: DNV GL estimates the effects of the cost savings lower than TenneT, but it is likely that a cost reduction in the order of 10% can be expected. 10% of the cost of the infrastructure that TenneT is going to build can't be 3 billion? Then what TenneT is going to build should cost 30 billion. Can the Minister take us on, tonight or in a letter, with a sum of 3 billion savings? What's that in? The only thing I can read in the report that I'm allowed to read is that it's a 10% cost reduction. The Minister mentions an amount. Then I'm like, 10% of what? What TenneT builds can't cost 30 billion. So I don't understand the sum. Several colleagues do not understand the sums. We have asked for different versions of a justification. I understand that it may be difficult to explain this now, but if we could get some support, that would be very nice for me and for my colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-10.u30	I do not understand Mrs Van Tongeren's concern on this point. I don't need to understand that one either. Mrs. Van Tongeren is asking for information. I will give her that information in a form that is satisfactory to her. I told you, I'm not gonna give you any vulnerable information. I'm not gonna fail the taxpayer and the energy bill holder. This is a complete calculation that I would like to make clear to the Chamber. I've been talking about the 3 billion TenneT realizes, which is part of the 40% cost savings. It's a little more nuanced. Part of that 3 billion comes under 40%, another part is outside. I think it would be very good if, on the basis of Mrs Van Tongeren's question, we could put these figures together again. Then she can judge it. In any case, she understood from me that I would like to give the insight, but not confidential business information. That's how we might get out together. I'll give that information to the Chamber in a week or two or three.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-10.u31	Perhaps I am a little ahead of my questions, but they also have to do with this. I had asked what the total cost of building the network at sea is, the network that TenneT is going to build.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-10.u32	That's part of it. You spoke of the network at sea. I thought you meant the wind farms that are being realized there and the network that TenneT needs to build. The TenneT network is part of Mrs Van Tongeren's question. Perhaps the understanding that I will provide the Chamber with answers to its questions also answers your questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-10.u33	Can you explicitly take my question with you about the total cost of the network that TenneT is going to build to connect all those wind farms at sea?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-10.u34	I did not have the impression that Mrs Van Tongeren's question relates exclusively to that information. I understand she wants the entire information. The Chamber receives it on the basis of Mrs Van Tongeren's question. Mrs Van Tongeren asked what would happen if the cost reduction were not achieved. Then the contracts are not given and the grant commitments are not made. We have made agreements in the energy agreement. We put a lot of money into it. Mrs Klever is constantly talking about 18 billion. That's the worst-case scenario. There are also scenarios where a much lower amount comes out. We will have to wait and see. If the concrete plans are there, the tenders will be opened and the offers will come from the companies. Then we can see what the companies' offers are and then we also know the differences between conventional electricity production and wind production at sea. That difference will then be subsidised. We cannot say in advance what the outcome is. The cost reduction we have agreed on must be achieved. If it is not achieved, the windmills will not be built.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-10.u35	That's exactly my concern. If it is not clear how TenneT should achieve that 3 billion cost reduction and if TenneT might not make it, I hope with the Minister that TenneT will make it, the party will not go on, the Minister says. That cost reduction must be achieved anyway. That is my concern when asking whether that is realistic. Does this not mean that, unfortunately, we will be getting a statement in some time that the cost reduction is not being achieved and that wind at sea has therefore slowed down?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-10.u36	As far as I am concerned, this is only to a limited extent the case of TenneT. I think TenneT is capable of doing what's agreed. Those calculations were made by TenneT and then checked again. I'm not worried about that. The concern, if any, is what companies should do. The companies must then deliver on what they agreed in the energy agreement. They know very well what they have agreed. For our part, we're helping them a little. Mrs Klever said that suppliers of wind turbines from Denmark and Germany, but also from other countries, such as China, are interested in the market here. If you have good competition and good innovation, and we are doing a lot to support it, I think industry is able to honour the agreement and deliver its share of that 40%.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-10.u37	In principle, I share what the Minister says. However, I remember PvdA Minister Cramer placing 6,000 megawatts of wind at sea and talking about it very enthusiastically. Perhaps the Minister thinks that I have become somewhat cynical, but I wonder if we are going to achieve that and what the possible obstacles are. With the VVD I think about the attractiveness of investments in the Netherlands, but we will not see that until the tender. I very much hope that the Minister is absolutely right that we are achieving both the cost savings and the timetable and, in addition, attracting all these investors. Let's hope so. It is the duty of the Chamber to sit behind the Minister and check. That's what I'm trying to do tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-10.u38	The Room may also be a little behind itself. The bill has been in the Chamber for three and a half months. I appreciate treatment very much. The 40% has been put forward by industry itself. The industry has even agreed on this. I'm doing my best to support the industry. I already told you China is interested. In China windmills are also built at sea, as in Japan. Both in China and Japan, the sea is much deeper, so costs are higher. They even have to float the windmills. Nevertheless, both in Japan and China, windmills are being built at sea. Our businesses, their businesses and governments can work together on this. I have spoken about this in Japan and China with the relevant directors and large companies. They are very interested in this cooperation, as Dutch companies are very interested in it. There are also companies interested in investing in wind farms in the Netherlands. They are also interested in building their own capacity and setting up their own business. We'll see how that develops. This can only support the 40% process and the fulfilment of the commitments. In the direction of Mrs Van Tongeren, I have already referred to compensation for the existing licences, also in response to Mr Vos' question. That consultation is under way. I hope to be able to conclude that soon and inform the Chamber about it as well. I'm going to go into the speed of what we're doing at sea. We have now made a plan to realize five times 700 megawatts at sea in five years. We have the ambition for the first year to tender 700 megawatts. The energy agreement said that there will be a tender in 2015 of 450 megawatts. So we are faster than the energy agreement. For 2016 the energy agreement included 600 megawatts. Even then we come with 700 megawatts. At the end of that year, in 2016, we should do 1,050 megawatts according to the energy agreement, but we tendered 1,400 megawatts. So we are well on our way in that respect. If we can also keep the pace in the legislation, then I am able to ensure that, according to the energy agreement, by 2020, we can actually contribute to the 14% target that is being ambitioned. In the year 2023, we can then make the contribution to the 16% that will then be ambitioned. Mrs Van Tongeren also asked about the ports and how they are. She asked if that should not be coordinated. There's a lot to be done at sea. Much needs to be done in the Netherlands, the United Kingdom, Denmark, Germany and Belgium. So a lot is going to happen in the North Sea. Dutch companies have the ambition to play a major role in this. They are also involved in most wind farms that have already been realized. They want to do that from the Netherlands. That's from the ports. They also have the possibility to have the parts delivered in the ports and then have them worked close to those ports and then put them out to sea. They can also do maintenance from the ports. Several ports look at the role they can play in this. They make investments for that. I think they should all take a good look at their chances and how they want to respond to them. I think that this healthy competition between ports, especially given the scale of what is going to happen and the opportunities to serve abroad, is not wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-10.u39	I have nothing against healthy competition, but this is tax money. Heliports need to be built. Maintaining windmills at sea is done not only by boat but also by helicopter. There is currently a big battle going on, for example between Den Helder and Groningen Seaports in the Eemshaven, about who gets the heliport. With tax money, everything is done in those two ports. I don't know about IJmuiden and Vlissingen, but they fight too. If everyone there is building facilities with tax money, and in the end only two of them can actually get to work, that would be a pity. Would the Minister, without any firm commitments, like to look again at whether there would be any need for coordination?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-10.u40	Antwerp and Rotterdam also compete. That doesn't make either of them any worse. Heliport Den Helder is already here. Den Helder has the military facility there. It is currently one of the largest offshore heliports in all of North-West Europe; that is just the fact. If they say in the north, in Groningen, that they have Wagenborg, a company that can be expected to do a lot for those windmills, that they have a lot of energy expertise and that they want to make it a coherent package so that they can play a role in it, then I won't stop them. I would like to say to Mrs Van Tongeren that the various activities are a focus of attention. I'll follow that, but right now, my approach is as follows. I think it is good that they are active and responding, but it is their own responsibility to make good judgements and do sensible things. I'll follow it with interest. I believe that Mrs Van Tongeren has been given answers to her questions. Mrs Klever once again talks about the Central Planning Bureau, which said that wind farms at sea only cost money. I know Mrs. Klever doesn't want wind farms. Now for the sixth time we're talking about exactly the same subject. I'm going to say again that on the basis of a report by Decisio, an investigative agency, the Central Planning Office said it would cost 5 billion. There is another report, from SEO, that can bring the money up to maybe even 12 billion in the end. I have also said that I find all this very interesting, but that it is my intention to make the transition from fossil energy to renewable energy. To make that transition, you need production capacity. It has to be built up, and it costs money. New capacity costs money; that is a fact. We can talk to each other about that every time, but that doesn't change the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-10.u41	No, it's obvious we're not getting together here. I'd appreciate it if the Minister would admit that the calculation of the Central Planning Office is just right. The Central Planning Bureau is the main advisor to the government. It comes up with reconnaissance four times a year. It makes the Macro Economic Recognitions and passes through the election programs. Cabinet policy is made on the basis of the calculations of the Central Planning Bureau and not on the basis of SEO calculations. The report to which the Minister refers each time is an investigation, done at the request of Stichting Natuur & Milieu. The Minister dismissed an investigation from his own Centraal Planbureau with another report based on a study by Stichting Natuur & Milieu. Can the Minister just admit that these windmills at sea are a social damage of EUR 5 billion, as the Central Planning Office says?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-10.u42	For me Stichting Natuur & Milieu is not a dirty word, no more than Central Planning Bureau is a dirty word. I take the company Decisio seriously. On that basis, you can develop policies, but I can tell you that a lot of policies are being developed on the basis of advice and analysis from SEO. It's a permanent partner of the government. I find the reports of both of them interesting in themselves, but I find it even more interesting that we have decided to make the transition to renewable energy. Our entire subsidy system is set to the following. At some point we look at the cost of electricity via fossil energy and what the costs are via wind at sea; the difference between them we are going to subsidise. It is a very simple and logical system that we have set up to make the transition from fossil energy to renewable energy. That is a transition that we are making, which makes Germany, which makes the United Kingdom, which makes Denmark, which makes Japan, which makes Korea, which makes China, which is made all over the world. This is just happening. If you are making a transition, if you already have fossil power plants and want to generate sustainable energy, you must of course start building up production capacity again. That's absolutely true. That costs money, that's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-10.u43	The Minister says: it is the decision that we have made, and that costs money. Then it would be nice for him to admit that it is indeed costing money, that it is causing damage to society of EUR 5 billion and that that is the policy he is pursuing. It'd be nice if he didn't say that other reports say it's a big deal. No, his own Central Planning Agency says 5 billion euros of social damage. It would be nice if the Minister would just acknowledge that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-10.u44	The company Decisio comes to the conclusion on the basis of a contract from the Central Planning Bureau that it costs 5 billion. The company SEO comes to the conclusion, on the basis of a commission from the Nature & Environment Foundation, that it produces a maximum of 12 billion. I don't really care what it is, because we have to make that transition. We are making this transition in the cheapest way possible, by subsidising only the difference in costs in it and also by ensuring that we can achieve a 40% reduction in prices, in accordance with the agreements we made in the energy agreement. Mrs Klever also briefly returned to the jobs in the recreational sector that would disappear as a result of wind farms at sea. There is already a wind farm at sea 6 nautical miles away from the coast of Egmond. The proposal I have made and what the Chamber has accepted, with a nuance proposed by the VVD group by Mr Leegte's mouth, is that Borsele will realize it outside the 12 nautical miles and for North and South Holland in any case outside the 10 nautical miles. That means that the nearest mill to be placed in those new parks is 4 miles away from the coast than the mills that are already there. Mrs Klever also asked what the deal with the Chinese means. I just went into that. Mr Smaling asked whether new information has been available on the figures since the recent debate. That's not true. The figures that were there at the time are still there. He also asked about the pace in which we are going to realize it and the five times 700 megawatts. I have just discussed how this relates to the energy agreement. I have also said that I see the possibilities of making all that happen in practice. I would be very helpful if the necessary legislation were to be dealt with quickly by the Chamber. The Chamber took care of it. There's a written hearing. However, I would also like to have the plenary part-session to ensure that we can also close the case in the First Chamber in good time, so that we can do from 1 January what I would like to do in order to implement the energy agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-10.u45	The minister quickly ignored my question as to what the deal with the Chinese meant. I'm only gonna ask you one more time. What's the deal? Are the Chinese only going to be investors in the wind farms or are they really going to bid in the tenders? How much of this 18 billion grant will flow to Chinese and Chinese jobs?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-10.u46	I have already said that this 18 billion grant is a maximum amount and that it can also be a completely different amount. We have to wait and see how that will work out in practice. That depends on all kinds of circumstances. We've calculated different scenarios, and the most expensive scenario is that 18 billion. I said that we want a 40% reduction in prices and that industry has promised it, but that competition is needed. It is good that this competition comes from China as well. That's fine. The Chinese could produce over there, but they have very high transport costs. They could also produce in the Netherlands. They'll have higher wage costs, but lower transport costs. I don't know exactly how that works out. I do know that when they are engaged in the production of wind at sea in China and Japan, they gain experience with it and we have the same thing, it is very good to work together in it. Then Dutch companies can make money in China and Chinese companies might participate in tenders here in the Netherlands. This is good for the functioning of the market in the Netherlands. For the Dutch companies it would be good if their market could be located, except here in the vicinity of the North Sea, partly in Japan and in China. So I think that interaction is positive. I have discussed this with the authorities and with the companies in China. I have noticed that they are interested in working together and wanting to become very concrete about it. I have therefore agreed with them on how we can stimulate this cooperation and how we can help companies with information on what is possible in the Netherlands and the role they could play in it, as well as Dutch companies are being informed by the Chinese and the Japanese about the possibilities there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-10.u47	So I fully understand that some of that EUR 18 billion subsidy is going to go to Chinese investors who compete for projects, in addition to the fact that part of it flows to German and Danish windmill builders? The jobs created by the energy agreement, as the Minister always says, are therefore, among other things, German, Danish and Chinese jobs? How many Dutch jobs are left? How much of that 18 billion goes to Dutch companies?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-10.u48	I have already applied ten nuances to this 18 billion, but it does not seem to go over to Mrs Klever. As far as jobs are concerned, the production of windmills, for example, is not carried out in the Netherlands. The production of turbines does not take place in the Netherlands either. It takes place in other countries. If companies from other countries are going to offer on the Dutch tenders, we have an interest in many companies from as many countries as possible. I would like to see, if companies from China, for example, join in the Netherlands, Dutch companies will also participate in China. Dutch companies also have a lot to offer in the field of windmills, although they do not produce blades and turbines. But there are opportunities for Dutch companies there and for Chinese and Japanese companies here. I believe that this is beneficial for both countries and companies from both countries. I answered Mr Smaling's questions when I talked about our schedule of 5 times 700 megawatts for the next 5 years. He also talked about the cost of renewable energy. Mrs Klever mentions an amount of €250. She knows that it is currently about €17 a year. Mr Smaling probably also knows that the energy bill is constantly falling at the moment, because the oil is getting so cheap. We will see how that develops in the coming period. If there is not a reduction but an increase, then this increase is part of what we call costs here in the Netherlands, which are made every year in the Social Affairs and Employment budget. It then looks at the costs, revenues and real disposable income of the different income groups and what policy conclusions we should draw from them. I think energy costs are part of that. That's what you need to see in that broader context. You don't have to make separate statements about that. At the moment there is no need for this because the reduction in energy prices is now taking place. It's been going on for some time. The price increase resulting from the transition to renewable energy will only take place in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-10.u49	That's a clear explanation. Indeed, the price of oil is falling, but I would like to take back the amounts mentioned by the Minister in previous debates. He said it could go up to €150, €250, while it is now €17. It will then become an increase that could become burdensome for people with not too large income or wealth. Is the Minister prepared, in that case, to lay his eggs, including in the context of the Tax Plan? Otherwise it will be a bit of a peripheral event in the Tax Plan and those few hundred euros will not get their place due to energy taxation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-10.u50	It does not seem realistic to me to speak now of a few hundred euros extra for energy taxation. That is not the reality at the moment. The reality is a fall in the energy bill as a result of a fall in oil and gas prices. The increase in renewable energy costs will be more gradual in the coming years. We need to look at the situation on the other hand with fossil energy costs and whether this will ultimately lead to an increase in prices. If that leads to an increase in prices, we can't see how much it is until then. In my view, it is best to look at this in the whole of the so-called cost items that are covered in the SZW budget. That is my reaction towards Mr Smaling.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-10.u51	That's clear, but let's say that in the coming period you're going to get quite a few zero-on-the-meter households, so the total population you're lifting energy taxes on is getting smaller and the energy load per household is getting higher. If that happens, will the Minister ring the bell with his colleague in the Treasury? I think that commitment is important.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-10.u52	Mr Smaling has expressed great confidence in me. That means that by the time this could become a problem, I would still be there to send signals. I'll do my best to live up to that trust. I think, however, that every year in the Social Affairs and Employment budget, there is right to pay attention to the costs for low-income people, especially those in a position where they cannot do anything extra to save energy and who do not benefit from solar panels on the roof or cannot participate in a windmill project. We also need to look at the income position of these people. This is part of it. This increase in the cost of renewable energy may be offset by the reduction in the cost of fossil energy that is currently taking place. We have to wait and see if it all becomes a reality. I am convinced that at that time, if I am no longer there, Mr Smaling and the SP will still be there to put their finger on the sore spot. I have dealt with Mr Vos' question on the handling of the old permits. As soon as that's settled, I'll let the Chamber know, and so will he. Mrs Mulder said that wind energy should actually be free of subsidies. I also think that this should be possible, but it is not possible for the time being. The additional costs are real because different companies are competing to collect orders. If they charge too much, they won't pull that order. In addition, they have agreed on the 40% reduction. What we are doing with our SDE+ system is only subsidising the real additional costs. A large amount of investment must therefore be made by a company. Then they can get a grant commitment for 15 years. As technology progresses and perhaps by making fossil energy more expensive rather than cheaper, the situation could arise that wind energy is indeed not more expensive than fossil energy. However, I have not yet taken this into account in my calculations. At the moment, I take into account that it is more expensive and that it needs to be subsidised.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-10.u53	Then I think it's okay if I just clarify that we had a presentation in the Chamber from the Global Commission on the Economy and Climate. It had available figures that would show that between 2016 and 2017 wind energy at sea would be available without a subsidy. Are those figures also known to the Minister? If so, is he working on that? In any case, we have asked this committee to consider with our Parliament in future how to bring down the price of wind energy at sea, so that subsidies are no longer necessary. Of course, we would like to achieve it all without subsidies, but I was interested in whether these figures are also known to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-10.u54	The figures available to me show that the expectation for 2015, 2016 and the first years after that is that subsidies should be provided and that money should be provided for wind on land and sea. I'm not gonna be in the Chamber expecting that to be any different. Mrs Mulder is asking for a response to more specific figures. I'll check those numbers. If new insights emerge from this, I will let the Chamber know. However, we must be realistic. The five times 700 MW of wind at sea that we are going to realize, the connections that have to be made, the capacity that has to be built up: that will simply cost money.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-10.u55	I thank the Minister for this commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-10.u56	Mrs Mulder also expressed her opinion on the distance to the coast of the windmills at sea. I've just gone over that. I made the choice for five 700 MW, standardized and split over three locations: two 700 MW at Borssele, two 700 MW at one place for the North and South Holland coast and 700 MW at the other place. This choice, with its precise location, leads to savings of EUR 1.2 billion. If we put it down further down, it's gonna cost so much more. During the treatment of Wind Energy in the Sea, Mr.Veegte indicated that he had other information about the possibilities at the IJmuiden Ver site. I have told him that I will enable the business community to further support this. Mr. Hollow doesn't suck that out of his mind, but it's also been handed to him. The companies can do the same for me. I can then pass that on. That's all gonna happen in the next few months. As soon as I get that information, it goes to the chamber. At the moment, my understanding is that if we do it according to my schedule, it costs 1.2 billion less, so I stay at a distance of at least ten miles from the coast, while the current windmills are already at six miles from the coast. Mr Leegte pointed out that investment in renewable energy by companies requires security, as well as long-term clarity. He felt that the debates in the Chamber did not contribute to this. He's a good judge of that himself, so I have no idea. The Chamber supports the energy transition and hopefully also the approach I have now chosen for the five 700 MW winds at sea. With eleven of the twelve provinces we have made the agreements to make wind on land. We have a law in the Chamber and are about to come up with another law, STROOM, which is going to take care of additional things. I believe that with the policy of the cabinet and the support of a majority of the Chamber and later on with what is laid down in the law, plus the SDE+ regime that we have and the budgets that have been allocated to it, we offer a great deal of security to business. I do not see many countries offering more security to business at the moment. In fact, I think that we are very well organized in terms of organisation and ambition. This will become apparent when we open up the tenders and show companies whether they are indeed interested. Mr Leegte also mentioned the export of technologies, the exportability of energy techniques. That is, of course, of the utmost importance. We have a very active business that can do a lot and that also exports a lot. We export an unprecedented amount, both in the agricultural sector and in the industrial sector. I told him I was in China last week. China has 11.5% of world trade. They also do a lot of things. The Netherlands has 3.7% of world trade, of course because we implement but also because we produce a lot of ourselves. We are still a very strong country, where there is a lot of knowledge, a lot of innovation and a lot of technology. We produce physical products, but we also produce services. We provide products and services to other countries, including in the field of energy. We are building up a lot of energy knowledge in the Netherlands. We also subsidise in this sector. I opened last year, for example, the Demonstrating Energy Innovation scheme, which will make 24 million available to industry to support innovation and the creation of products that it can export. We have already launched 350 innovation-oriented projects in the energy top sector since the creation of that top sector, which connect 600 companies. We will be presenting the Energy Report 2015 this year. This report will provide the basis for policies that create a stable investment environment for businesses. In the energy note, we will put everything that is happening, our ambitions, what we are fulfilling and our vision for the future, so that companies can see what the Netherlands wants to do. For exportability, I have spent the last three months in Japan, Korea and China with all relevant ministers. I've been to the big companies and made arrangements. I have found a lot of interest in Dutch technology. I will certainly continue to interfere in the coming period in order to give it a good follow-up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-10.u57	I would like to thank the Minister very much. I understand that at least Mrs Van Tongeren still needs a second term. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Like everyone else, she has a minute's speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-10.u58	Mr. Chairman. I would like to call on colleagues to support the early handling of the Wind Energy Bill at sea, the Electricity and Gas Act, the Lot Decision and the SDE+ scheme for offshore wind energy. I'll sign that up by Tuesday, then we can help the Minister get it done this year. I have a short motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas wind farms should be able to rely on a timely connection of offshore wind farms to the electricity grid;]] [[calls on the Government to clarify now who is responsible for the timely completion of the connection and to outline the outline of the compensation scheme for wind energy companies in late implementation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33561-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-10.u59	I have a comment for the Acts. We have already discussed this bill at the procedural meeting. It's logged in and ready for treatment. Mrs Van Tongeren is being brave, but her colleagues have already done that work manfully for her in the procedural meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-10.u60	I understand it's something else. A further report will be made tomorrow at your procedural meeting. The deadline for submission is tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-10.u61	I'm getting an interruption and I'd like some answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-10.u62	Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-10.u63	Female as I am, I'd like to answer that. Four legislative proposals are needed. The Minister says it's more in the Chamber. One way of getting things on the agenda faster is by asking for an early debate in plenary. Things are notified at the procedural meeting. The Minister is right to say that he has been waiting three and a half months for a hearing in the Chamber. I think we should take that into account ourselves. I therefore hope for the support of the PvdA and the VVD to get this done quickly. I think the Minister has a point here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-10.u64	Then it would also help if parties did not always ask for further reports, then people could get to work quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-10.u65	I would be happy to check who requested the further report, but that was not the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-10.u66	You'd better fight that on your committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-10.u67	That's what we like to fight out there. I would like to thank the Minister for the commitment to make clear, in a simple way, without using business-confidential information, how the cost reduction has been included, and also that it will not be charged to the wind farms if TenneT does not achieve its cost savings.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-10.u68	Thank you. I understand that Mr Smaling still wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-10.u69	Mr. Chairman. Very briefly. I threatened to make a motion. I won't file it. The interrupting debate I had with the minister was pleasant. I hope he realizes that people who want SP votes very much to be sustainable, but often have a small wallet. If he is aware that he is taking this into account if he wants to get the SP and that we can talk about this when the bill is being dealt with, I do not need to make a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-10.u70	Very well, then the motion has not been tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-10.u71	Mr. Chairman. I'll start with the motion in part No. 14 by Mrs Van Tongeren. She had a point, I think. She says that for the sake of certainty, companies charge costs if there is a problem about liability, and then you just pay too much. I told her she was right. In the STROOM Act we will include that there will be an arrangement for this, so that they will not be charged any costs and that there will be no liability. That's how I solve the problem. The point is correct. I'll take care of it. The motion will then have no added value, so I would suggest to Mrs Van Tongeren that she withdraw this motion, given the certainty of my reaction to her point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-10.u72	Mrs. Van Tongeren would like to continue the motion. We talked about four different legislative proposals. I would also like to discuss with the Minister and the spokesmen of the two government parties how we can quickly get them through the First and Second Chambers. I understand that's a real obstacle. I'd like to do everything I can to get them through both chambers quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-10.u73	At the request of Mrs Van Tongeren, I propose her motion (33561), No. 14), as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 40/94 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the common organisation of the market in fruit and vegetables. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-10.u74	I would like to thank Mrs Van Tongeren for holding the motion. I also very much appreciate her support for an early parliamentary examination of the legislative proposals, of course without prejudice to their quality. Mr Smaling said that his party, the SP, stands up for the people with a narrow scholarship. Maybe I can say it once: I am also a member of a People's Party. I'm very interested in the people with a small scholarship. First of all, I am interested in helping them to earn their own income. Insofar as they cannot acquire that income, I am very motivated to offer them a reasonable income from the collective. So I have no problem with Mr Smaling's attention to these people. I am a person who wants to live up to what Mr Smaling has asked, also on his own responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-10.u75	Thank you. Mrs Arib led a debate this afternoon, which lasted five quarters of an hour. That was also a 30-member debate. We've done it five minutes faster. I would like to thank Members very much for improving that record. I would like to thank the Minister for his presence at both debates this evening. I would also like to thank the participants in these debates.
