ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u1	I welcome the Prime Minister and give the floor to Mr Verhoeven as the first speaker on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u2	Mr. Chairman. Today, for the umpteenth time, the European Commission is presenting measures because of the flow of refugees. That is understandable, because much remains to be done, but it is also sad that measures that have been in place for months have not yet been implemented. 160,000 places have been promised for asylum seekers from Italy and Greece, but only 184 have been received. In the Netherlands, the counter is still at zero. We've made 100 places available. My question is when will the first people come to the Netherlands? How will the Netherlands set a good example, especially if we are President from 1 January? I can guess the Prime Minister's answers: the hotspots are not functioning enough at the moment, so it is not our fault that we have not yet relocated people. But let us turn around: what can the Netherlands do to make the hotspots work, so that we can fulfil our obligation? Where do the Prime Minister see the bottlenecks? How can the Netherlands contribute to a solution? One suggestion I'd like to give him. I understand that the Netherlands continues to carry out Dublin transfers to Italy and Greece. Is this true? And does the Prime Minister think it makes sense for us to fly people back to countries to which we have just promised to take over people? Today, the long-awaited proposal on the Commission's European Border and Coast Guard has also been published. That is good, because today's Frontex is not sufficiently capable of guarding the external borders. A genuine European border guard with sufficient registration and rescue capacity is crucial. I now hear from the foreign press that the Prime Minister has informed President Juncker of the European Commission that this will be one of the Dutch priorities during the Presidency, so that it can be adopted by June. Can the Prime Minister confirm this? I'm asking you this in the debate, aren't I? Now I ask: can the Prime Minister confirm this? I'll hear about that in a minute, but it doesn't look like it is, so it's gonna be exciting tonight. Can he give his assessment of the content of the proposals? I will then be able to vote with confidence on the motion for a European Border and Coast Guard, which I have taken on board on the advice of the Prime Minister. I think that the European Border and Coast Guard will be fine, but I am less confident about the storage of passenger data (PNR). We discussed this last Monday during the State of the Union. At that time, the cabinet swore that the Minister of Security and Justice would send another letter containing all the information requested. But after reading this letter, I still have exactly the same questions as last week. During the State of the Union, the Dutch position turned out to be different from PNR to PNR. Why hasn't the House of Representatives been informed about this turn in advance? That's what I asked last week. Is it true that the Netherlands has undertaken informally to make use of this in intra-EU flights? Is that effective and proportionate now? And how exactly is it regulated with the supervision of everything that is going to happen with the new PNR measure? The key question for our group remains: why did the Netherlands agree to a package without the crucial obligation to exchange information between the services of the different countries? I would really like an answer from the Prime Minister. That's voluntary now. The cabinet writes: we want to promote this. I understand that, but why hasn't a mandatory exchange been chosen so that much better use can be made of it to combat terrorism? There also appears to be an agreement on the Better Regulation package. That is good, but what is the substantive appreciation of the Prime Minister of this package? The Court has adopted motions on this subject, including one on the position of small and medium-sized enterprises as a measure of rules, calling for SMEs to be taken as a standard rather than exceptions for SMEs. To what extent have these motions been included in the package? Will the Chamber have the opportunity to discuss this package, or is it a done deal? Next, a comment on the Brexit. The British referendum is on the agenda of the European summit. The cabinet states that three of the four requirements can be met, but that there is a clear limit to the principle of non-discrimination. That is, of course, very good. We congratulate the government on taking a stand, but according to the British, this is precisely the most important point of their efforts. They have said so themselves, and Minister Lidington has also confirmed this in the House of Representatives. How does the Cabinet intend to deal with this tension field? Everyone says that three of the four demands can be met, but that the last one is difficult, whereas the British say that the latter is the most important one for them. I don't think that's gonna be easy. How is the cabinet going to involve the Chamber in this negotiation process? Ukraine and Russia are also on the agenda. There are rumors that Italy is calling for sanctions against Russia to be eased because of Russia's role in Syria. That is not a logical connection for my group. Now we have seen more often in recent times that things are linked in a illogical way. We find that dangerous, because then there is also a tendency to bargain with certain principles. The Prime Minister and at least my group have spoken about this a number of times over the last week. Will the Prime Minister confirm that his commitment is not to reduce sanctions to Russia's full compliance with Minsk II? I urge him to do so. Finally. The Presidency is at the door. As far as Europe is concerned, the next six months will be the most important six months for this cabinet, especially for the Foreign and European Minister, but also for our Prime Minister. So I have a few questions for him. The cabinet has chosen not to employ a Secretary of State for European Affairs. The Prime Minister is now clapping, but I ask him if it is useful to have a Secretary of State for European Affairs in a cabinet period during which the EU Presidency falls. Minister Koenders of Foreign Affairs indicated this weekend that he is eager to have a Secretary of State or a member of government next to him who is better able to cover up Europe. I do know why: he lacks his hands, the water runs over his shoes, he suffers from the many Europe dossiers and he relaxes at work. There are examples left. The referendum campaign is one of them. The Minister of Foreign Affairs simply does not get there, because of the capital error of judgment not having a ruler for European affairs. The Minister of Defence has even taken over 26 days of Presidents in Brussels, instead of running her own ministry. It also seems that the Netherlands is asking Luxembourg to fill in as chairman of the Working Group of the Military Committee. We therefore welcome a response to the dogmatic view of the Prime Minister that we should not have a Secretary of State for European Affairs because the cabinet must be small. Did that come in handy? I would like a frank answer, because the Foreign Minister has actually said something quite different.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u3	Mr. Chairman. I thought I was the third speaker, but I am pleased to be the second speaker. I understood that the Prime Minister missed the SP very much in the previous debate, so I hope that my presence tonight will compensate for that. From the cabinet's point of view, I can see that this is agreed. Let me begin, like Mr Verhoeven, with the perhaps most pressing topic of our time, namely the issue of migration and the influx of refugees towards Europe and, in particular, towards the Netherlands. Has the Prime Minister taken note of Sigrid Kaag's statement on the broadcasting of Counter-Light that more reception in the region............................................................................................................................................................................................................................. My party's view is that we cannot ask such countries to include more people. Let's turn it around. If we were to receive 4.5 million refugees in our own country out of the 17 million people who already live here, that is about the ratio that now applies to Lebanon, for what amount would the cabinet be willing to take on more people? Probably the cabinet would never be willing to do that. That has everything to do with the support. The discussions we have with each other here, not only in this house, but also out there often, in rooms with people and on the street, are of course about support. People are concerned about displacement in the labour market, housing market, health care and many other areas. Is there enough money for it and can we all pay for it? And what about interfaith tension? Of course, these discussions also take place in Lebanon. I was in Lebanon myself last January. The prices of simple things like wood to cook on, but also of basics to feed you, go up. That has everything to do with the presence of many Syrians there. I would like to emphasise that the debate we are having here is even more intense in Lebanon. Yet here in the Chamber it is always pretending that reception in the region is the answer to the major problem facing more than 60 million refugees worldwide. I'd like to get a clear analysis and a response from the Prime Minister to Sigrid Kaag's remarks. I come to speak about Europe. What is going to happen with regard to Sweden, which recently said that it should substantially strengthen its asylum policy as regards the numbers of refugees coming to the country every day? Are there other Member States under such high pressure? How is it handled with those Member States that say they do not want to cooperate? Are Member States already getting a share of the €6,000 the European Union has promised per person to resettle? If that is the case, it seems curious to me. What will the Netherlands do? When do the first people get on the plane? For the sake of clarity, I agree with Mr Verhoeven's questions on this point. The European Commission has sent a letter to Hungary stating that asylum legislation in that country is against European asylum legislation. What's next? The conclusions read that the goal is "ensure registration and take measures to discoverage refusal of registration." This is about certain countries refusing or at least not doing everything they can to ensure that they register the migrants who enter them. The question is how this objective is to be enforced. What measures are being taken? What will happen to Member States that allow refugees to travel without registration? Is registration now compulsory or, as can be seen in the documents, only non-registration is discouraged? Is there a sanction on it, too? Human rights must be guaranteed, including at the border. It is now unclear who can be addressed in the case of human rights violations. There are reports of people being pushed back across the border and boats being punctured. Who is called upon: the Member State where it happens, the Member State which makes people available or the European Union? I like to hear it. For the time being, all these actions are mainly aimed at stopping people and not at saving people, as is clearly stated in the Verhoeven motion. What is being done to save this? What does the Prime Minister think about Greece? Were there threats to place the country outside Schengen if the country did not agree to additional border surveillance? Is this threat mechanism a desirable way of working together? I'm coming to Turkey. Is the human rights situation for the refugees with the greater responsibility we attributed to Turkey better monitored? What consequences will it have if it is shown that Turkey is indeed violating the human rights of refugees by, for example, the way in which people are detained, detained? Does the cabinet still contribute to the EUR 3 billion promised to Turkey? What agreements have been reached on this, particularly in relation to human rights? Will Turkey be on the list of safe countries when it comes to a deal with that country? I should like to comment briefly on a number of other points that are before us today. Mr Verhoeven mentioned the monstrous nature of the Passenger Name Record Directive. My group is very critical of this. I do not want to put the word'madness' in Mr Verhoeven's mouth, but I am happy to use that word. I have often asked in recent years whether the effectiveness of such measures could come to the Chamber in writing, especially since it seems that in the United States some critical noises are emerging so slowly that it is increasingly gathering all kinds of data and looking for a needle in a haystack, not always proving to be so effective. Why is Europe taking that path right now? Certain things have been promised, such as the no-hit system. A letter has been sent to show that a solution should be found for the critical input of various European political groups. How is it that it seems that risk profiles are created on the basis of large quantities of data and that we are actually going to continue to collect information and look for the criminal on the basis of risk profiles instead of assuming an actual suspicion? Why this approach? Could the Prime Minister perhaps indicate how much we can expect from the collection of all these data, in relation to the costs and the number of crimes that can be avoided? Finally, I would like to briefly draw attention to the climate issue. I see I have only a very short time left, so I'm going to ask you a short question. Can the Prime Minister identify which sustainable climate projects of developing countries are currently funding the Dutch development bank FMO? I ask this in the light of the fact that a total of 165 climate projects have been submitted by 44 developing countries, while only 14 have been financed. I can leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u4	Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister is going to an EU summit tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, where for the umpteenth time there is muddling in the field of the asylum crisis. At EU level, nothing is resolved at all and the problems are made worse. It is therefore inconceivable that the cabinet should use'more EU'. However, the prime minister must serve the Dutch interest and he must close the Dutch borders for asylum seekers, so that the Dutch citizen is released from the continuing asylum invasion. Unfortunately, however, the cabinet continues to give away our country to mass immigration, to Islamisation and to the unelected bureaucrats of the European Union. The latter is threatening to reach a new low. The forthcoming summit will discuss the issue of giving up border control. It should be possible for all EU Member States, including the Netherlands, to lose their powers in the field of border surveillance. That's very far-reaching. The Netherlands must never, of course, go along with this. The Prime Minister cannot just give away the Dutch borders, surrender our national sovereignty. The PVV therefore calls on him not to accept this and to make this clear in no uncertain terms at the upcoming summit. Do not let this country sink to a level where it is possible that we have nothing more to say even over our own borders. If we have to maintain our sovereignty somewhere, then of course it is at this point. I'd like to get a reaction to this. Yesterday, too, we saw what misery the EU is pouring into. When the talks began again on Turkey's accession to the EU. The EU and also the Prime Minister have been played in the blackmail policy of the Islamic tyrant Erdogan. In return for reducing the flow of refugees to the EU, for which no guarantee has been given, Turkey is given this new perspective of accession. The Turks also get visa waivers if they want to travel to the EU. As a blow to the head, the EU is taking over a number of Syrian refugees from Turkey. A worse deal can hardly be made. The PVV once again asks the Prime Minister to strike a line there. That point of redistribution of Syrians from Turkey to the EU alone is too absurd for words. After all, the Prime Minister had already signed up for the takeover of Syrians from Italy and Greece. In addition to the tens of thousands of Syrians who reach the Netherlands on their own, the Prime Minister therefore considers it necessary to take over Syrians from other countries. Although the Cabinet, also through the Secretary of State for Security and Justice, claims that there has never been talk of numbers, the PVV now wants to know exactly what will be on the table tomorrow and the day after tomorrow. How many Syrians does Erdogan want to get rid of us? Of course, the PVV wants the Prime Minister's commitment not to participate. Do not take over Syrians from Turkey or from any other country. All in all, it is a pity that the Prime Minister is wasting his time tomorrow and the day after tomorrow by muddling at EU level. The EU is currently in great chaos. A chaos of open borders, a chaos of weak, non-working measures and a chaos of conflicting interests. It is extremely foolish to make the Dutch people dependent on it. There is no need for that either, I repeat to the Cabinet and the Prime Minister. Just for once show the courage to take matters into your own hands, choose the Netherlands, choose to close your own Dutch borders, let no more asylum seekers in and remove the asylum procedure and the asylum shelter! It's necessary. The PVV will continue to hammer on it until it becomes reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u5	Mr. Chairman. In recent months we have seen that the European external borders are as leaky as a basket. In particular, Greece failed to guard its external borders. They were unable to register, capture and screen the people. Even the offer to Greece to assist them was rejected. Only after the threat to evict Greece from the Schengen area did they move. Now the European Commission wants to go ahead and enforce assistance from Member States. My group has a big problem with that. The European Commission would have the right to intervene. This gives the European Commission the power to overrule a Member State. In fact, this is a restriction on the sovereignty of Member States. Is it true that, as Mr Verhoeven also said, the Prime Minister is going to make this regulation a top priority in the coming six months? Why haven't alternatives been considered? Surely we have the stick behind the door to remove countries from the Schengen Convention, at least to suspend its operation? The Prime Minister's government agreement also stated that common arrangements, such as Schengen, could be introduced. Why not look at these alternatives or alternatives to, for example, strengthen border control at internal borders? Surely there are plenty of resources available before having to re-transfer powers to Brussels? The Christian Union also sees this responsibility as a common responsibility. We must put pressure on these Member States; we must provide assistance. That went well, too. At least more aid has come when it comes to Italy. In Greece, Europe has had to threaten the expulsion from Schengen. Eventually, that helped. Why does the European Commission now come to this emergency grip? Can I assume that this will not receive the Prime Minister's support? I am considering tabling a motion on this point in the second term. I hold my heart for a further transfer of powers. I'm getting to the hotspots. The hotspots also show the inability of Brussels. We just got a report from the Children's Ombudsman who was on the scene. I myself have been on the Macedonian-Greek border and I have seen how painful the situation is there. It's only gonna get worse in the next winter. The Children's Ombudsman even talks about the death of babies due to the freezing cold. These are very dramatic humanitarian situations. I hope that the Prime Minister will make this a top priority in the next six months, so that at least there will be refugee camps for children and this kind of distressing situation will be stopped at the border, especially at the border of Macedonia. Can I hear from the Prime Minister that he's making this a top priority? Then we have just heard that Sweden could get an opt-out, at least that is proposed by the European Commission because enough refugees would have already been admitted. I read in the papers that this is 112,000 refugees. That is indeed twice as much as the Netherlands has recorded. But if we make this option available to Member States, more countries will undoubtedly want to make use of it. What is the result of the redistribution, which the Prime Minister would also like, when it comes to the refugees who are now in Turkey, for example, but also to the refugees in Italy and Greece? I would like to hear a response from the Prime Minister when it comes to the option of giving Sweden a year's grace at least. This afternoon, a motion was adopted to allow NGOs to carry out part of the 3 billion aid package for Turkey in order to prevent money from going to the Turkish government's account, given the human rights situation there. I know that the Prime Minister has previously guaranteed me that this money will not be transferred to Erdogan. Now that this motion has been adopted, I would like to draw his attention to its implementation. Is he really going to ask the European Council to allocate part of the 3 billion to the NGOs, which specialize in the care sector, so that we know that this money is going to end up really well?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u6	Mr. Chairman. The euro summit will also be largely dominated by the migration crisis. Europe and the Netherlands are still faced with historical numbers of migrants, numbers so large that they are a threat to our way of life and our welfare state. The European approach is difficult, to put it mildly. There is a lot of talk and a lot of meetings, but concrete results are too much. In addition, the VVD considers that this is a concern of our own that the focus is very much on short-term measures that focus on making the current current manageable. What we would like to see is more energy and more initiatives on this longer-term perspective. As the cabinet indicated earlier and what was also taken up later in the conclusions of the JHA Council, we need to work not only to make the migration problem manageable, but also to solve it in a structural way. We all know that if there is peace in Syria, we hope that it will be there soon, but it will not be there soon, and there will be new fires and migratory flows from other countries. So we're not done for the time being and we're not going to solve the problem with just management measures. The VVD has often said that the agreements with Turkey can in itself be a first good step in terms of structural solutions. Moreover, I have the feeling that Mr Verhoeven would like to ask a question on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u7	I have the same idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u8	Yeah, I came out of my chair a little slow because I was dumb because the VVD started over the long term and so actually asks for a vision. Seriously, Mr. Van 't Wout says we want to put the long term at the centre. I think that is very good, but there is now a long-term proposal, namely a European Border and Coast Guard. Mr Voordewind just said: I no longer want to transfer powers, because I think that is dangerous. Actually, Mr Van 't Wout says: we want a long-term solution. Is this one of the long-term solutions the VVD says: yes, we're just gonna do that? But she must also be honest in saying that this also amounts to a transfer of power to ensure that these flows of refugees can be contained.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u9	I would like to comment on that in my speech, but I shall bring it up now. A package has been presented this afternoon, of which I have so far only seen a small factsheet. That package includes 110 pages of measures. In my view, I am also asking whether the Prime Minister can confirm this. That package will be passed on to a trade council and will also come to the Chamber with an appreciation, because there is rightly a retention of treatment. When I look through my eye hairs at that proposal, there are many measures that we as a VVD have long argued for. However, I am extremely critical of the Commission's ability to do so in respect of a country. So I would like to take a very critical look at that. If a country which is part of Schengen does not deliver anything at all, I can imagine that you are looking for means to do something about it, but I also want to avoid that if the Commission does not think something is right in Rotterdam, they will take over the border control without saying anything about it. So I'm going to look at that part very critically, but I also think there are a lot of things in it that we've been advocating for a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u10	It is right that Mr Van 't Wout would like to take a look at that, but the D66 Group has repeatedly tabled motions and put forward proposals for a European border guard. The VVD Group has always voted it down. That is the right of the VVD Group. Last week she also showed that she had changed her mind on a number of points. That was the PNR. We discussed this in detail last week. Can Mr Van 't Wout give us a tip of the veil on that long-term approach of the VVD Group? So far, I've seen that the VVD didn't think it was a good idea and didn't want to implement it when it came to the long-term approach of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u11	I don't think we heard that one.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u12	The European Border and Coast Guard is a literal example. It's a very concrete idea. It is now being proposed and is likely to accelerate. Can the VVD Group then mention a proposal? I've mentioned one now. Can the VVD Group now also mention one long-term proposal for this flow of refugees...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u13	That's what the VVD group does all the time. I refer to the Azmani plan. That is the structural solution: reception in the region, which will ultimately eliminate asylum applications in Europe. That's where I just came from. Those agreements with Turkey can be a good first step. Yes, European external border surveillance is important, but once you still come in at that border when you call "asylum," you do not solve the big migration issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u14	The EU is in the process of unprecedented action to take away Member States' competences, even in the area of border surveillance. The VVD Group must now confess colour, because the Prime Minister is going to a European summit tomorrow and the day after tomorrow. Mr. Van't Wout doesn't have time to think about what to do with this. What's his thesis? Why is he not saying that it is unacceptable for the Netherlands to lose the powers for its border control and that we are sending the Prime Minister that message to the EU summit?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u15	My proposal to the Prime Minister is that, as far as the VVD Group is concerned, no decisions are yet taken at this Council on this proposal. I want to see the whole proposal. That is what we then discuss in the Chamber. I have already indicated that I have very serious doubts on this point and that we must take a critical look at whether all the alternatives have been sufficiently rolled out. Mr Voordewind has just said this. I'm also saying you need to think about what you're doing with a country like Greece that's letting everyone in uncontrolled. It is true that it has now allowed people from Frontex, but it has taken too long.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u16	The point is that the Netherlands must bleed through the chaos in Greece. The EU proposal is not just about Greece. It concerns all EU Member States, including the Netherlands. The Netherlands is in danger of losing its powers in the field of border surveillance. That is a gross violation of our national sovereignty. My group takes this very seriously. Mr Van 't Wout doesn't have time to think because the Prime Minister is going to talk about this tomorrow. Mr Van 't Wout must now take a stand and say that the VVD Group does not accept that. Otherwise, he's gonna be late again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u17	First of all, I will not be told by Mr Fritsma what the VVD Group should think. Luckily, it doesn't work like that, and that's never gonna work like that. Secondly, it is not true that this decision will be taken tomorrow. There's a parliamentary reservation on it. That is what we ourselves have done here. Furthermore, Mr Fritsma's question is the same as before. For this, I refer to my previous reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u18	It is true that there is a parliamentary reservation on it. That's a good thing, too, because it's about transfer of sovereignty. But does the VVD Group perhaps think it is a good signal to ask the Prime Minister to take into account that the VVD Group is critical of this and that we should not simply transfer those powers to get Frontex to our ports in Rotterdam?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u19	I think I just said that. That is why I am also saying that there are no decisions on this matter in this Council as far as I am concerned. I would like to add that the VVD Group is prepared to consider solutions for countries that have to guard our external borders and simply do not deliver.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u20	I have mentioned a few examples of this in my contribution. There are alternatives. Does Mr Van 't Wout also think that the cabinet should start working on these alternatives before the transfer of sovereignty takes place? It worked in Greece in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u21	It seems to me that this absolutely must be part of the BNC sheet that we must get within three weeks because of the parliamentary reservation. What steps and alternatives could you go through? Throwing it out of Schengen could be one. That doesn't always solve everything either, because we're not just talking about Schengen borders. You have to look at it. The fact that I say that the VVD Group is critical of this means that I am not saying yes at the moment, but that I am prepared to think about what we are doing with countries that leave borders uncontrolled. That's also a problem we need to solve. I had stayed with the agreements with Turkey. I indicated that, according to the VVD, this is an important first step towards a more structural solution for the flow of refugees and the migration crisis. It is a question of implementation. That is why I am asking the Prime Minister how the financial instrument was designed in particular. Are the budgets filled yet? What is the distribution of funds between the Commission and the Member States? The most important question is whether the conditionality of the overall package is also in funding, so that we do not write a blank cheque for Turkey. We have already said that the money is not intended to go to the government. I therefore agree with Mr Voordewind. This afternoon, in addition to the border story, a Commission proposal on resettlement came out. I haven't seen that proposal yet. As far as I am concerned, therefore, the Council cannot take a decision on this at this stage, except that we are aware of it. As with the entire Turkey deal, the VVD is subject to two conditions: resettlement can only take place once the flow of refugees has dried up and if we have the opportunity not to send people who come to it back through resettlement. Otherwise we will create two migratory flows next to each other; then we might as well not do it. As I said, the VVD wants more attention to be paid to structural solutions with a medium- or longer-term perspective. Are we now also talking to other countries to make agreements with Turkey? I have just said something about the external borders in the small-scale debate. I'll be on the Brexit. That process seems to be at an impasse. It is unclear what exactly will be discussed in this Council, but perhaps the Prime Minister already knows more about it. As is well known, the VVD considers it extremely important that the British remain with Europe. A good package must therefore be negotiated with them. It seems to have been difficult. What's the status? In three weeks' time, the Netherlands will be President-in-Office of the Council. What role does the Prime Minister see for himself in moving this process forward and the great importance of keeping the British in mind, which is also in their interest, is my conviction to realize? I'll deal with better regulation. Mr Verhoeven has already spoken about this. I think I've seen something come by on this. I am pleased to see that my motion to place checkable targets on that agenda has been implemented, so that we can see if we can do a little bit to ease those burdens and get fewer rules. Can the Prime Minister confirm this? I also agree with Mr Verhoeven on this point. Finally. I am pleased that, despite all the crises and current major issues that we face, the Council will once again consider the internal market in detail. That is one of the main reasons why we are members of the European Union. We are also pleased that this is a top priority of the presidency for the Netherlands. We support the cabinet in its efforts to make it a top priority for the entire Council in 2016. We are leaving behind a tremendous amount of potential prosperity because the internal market is not finished. We shouldn't do that to ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u22	Mr. Chairman. It is the first debate since last weekend's climate agreement. The PvdA considers it important to highlight here too that it is very good that this agreement is now in place. Unlike previous climate conferences, the sense of urgency was present and participants were able to reach an ambitious agreement. The climate agreement is very important. We are also proud of the successful contribution of Secretary of State Dijksma on behalf of the Netherlands and on behalf of the EU. The agreement will now have to be implemented as soon as possible and the corresponding approach and measures will have to be provided. The Energy Union, which is on the agenda, which improves security of energy supply, reduces energy demand and makes our energy mix CO2 free in the long term, is part of this. I read in the annotated agenda that the government is writing something about countries that impose conditions on this because of infrastructure projects. Can the government explain exactly what conditions these are and which countries have done so? Then there is the most pressing issue on the agenda, the joint asylum and migration policy. The Council notes in the draft conclusion that despite all the hard work done in recent months, the level of implementation of some of the decisions taken is insufficient. That is a very nice formula, but it masks the fact that Member States are lagging behind their commitments. Let me put it bluntly, if the EU Member States themselves are not in a position to fulfil their own commitments, how many demands can the EU have on other countries with which we want to make agreements? Agreements following the Valetta Summit, agreements with the African Union but also agreements with Turkey. That is why the question to the government is: what is the situation with regard to the agreements reached on the support of Frontex, on the European Asylum Support Office, on the setting up of hotspots? Can the government give an insight into the Dutch contributions, including relocation, and an insight into the contributions of the other Member States? This is where the EU really needs to work together. A joint effort is expected here. What is the situation with regard to compliance with and implementation of the agreements with Turkey? How will they be monitored? What steps are being taken, for example, to improve conditions in detention and relocation centres in Turkey? As I said last Monday, we cannot all dismiss this as some sort of bookkeepers and always ask the question: what do I get out of it? We really need to tackle this asylum and migration policy together. Today, the Commission presented an ambitious plan aimed at improving border surveillance. Colleagues have also talked about it. A lot of paper that we could find on the Internet and that is partly not yet available, but it is also about a European border and coastguard. What is the government's first appreciation of the Commission's plans for this? The PvdA believes that changing Frontex's mandate is a real option, but that can only work if, for example, those hotspots work at those borders. Then I'll come back to my previous point. How do these plans relate to the hotspot approach and to its development? Only if the European Union's border control at its external borders really fails and is under pressure will a more comprehensive mandate be worked out. As far as the PvdA is concerned, this European Border and Coast Guard has no role to play in areas where external border surveillance is functioning well. Previous speakers have already spoken about this. I think a little pressure for border surveillance is necessary, if we are to look at what happened in Greece, for example. From the past period, you cannot say with dry eyes that the Greek border guard was good, because I believe that there are 750,000 people who have smuggled people across that border. Then neither can the Greeks claim that they can handle it themselves. Schengen is a free travel area and when people enter Greece, they can also enter the other Schengen Member States and the European Union. But we do not like the compulsion in the proposal, which is also contained in the press release. What exactly is meant by an implementing decision of the agency now to be set up, after which the agency can deploy teams if a Member State cannot, but also wants, take action, as it says? How exactly does that relate to the sovereignty that Member States have on their own borders? I'm going to the next block now. I saw Mr Voordewind standing there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u23	I was just waiting for this block to end. Questions have been asked to the Prime Minister on behalf of the Labour Party. I was curious to see how sharp you are in it, because it will be discussed the day after tomorrow. The proposal will then be put on the table and the Netherlands will have to take a position. Do you think it is far too early to go along with this and instruct the Commission to use the whole process of progress? Or do you say it's allowed by the PvdA?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u24	A little more urge, and perhaps a lot of urge, when things go wrong, we find a good point. We believe that the border with Turkey should be better guarded, but in combination with such a hotspot approach. We still have questions about the element of implementing decision. I understand that this whole package is still being discussed extensively in our own permanent committee on security and justice and that there is a retention of treatment. So I think it will be a while before we know exactly all the ins and outs of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u25	Mrs Maij is talking about her own words, but can I conclude that the Labour Party's signal is to the government to be very reluctant and critical about it? Do I understand why it's "no" so far?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u26	It is particularly important to be absolutely critical and to deepen that element. We need to know exactly what is meant by this. I think that we will see this further developed in the next few weeks in the written response and appreciation of the government. We will also have to take the pieces further, in order to understand exactly what this is about. The annotated agenda talks about the internal market in all its dimensions; a deeper and fairer market for goods and services. The PvdA would like to add the employees to that. Of course, there is no doubt that we need to strengthen our economy in order to maintain our prosperity, but this must not only be done in favour of goods and services. Workers in the internal market are more than just a cost. The labour mobility package offers many opportunities to make the intra-European labour market fairer. The government has previously confirmed that this package will be a priority during the forthcoming Presidency, as well as the revision of the Detachment Directive. I understand, however, that this has been postponed. However, labour exploitation does not only take place far away in countries, but also under our own noses, here in the EU. Equal pay for the same work in the same place in the EU should become the most normal thing in the world. The Detaching Directive still offers too many opportunities to deploy workers from one EU country in another EU country, competing on wages below the minimum wage or on social conditions and working conditions. That's a thorn in Cameron's eye. A good labour mobility package should also be able to remove the British's concern or complaint. The EU summit will discuss in detail the UK's demands for the European Union and its negotiations with a view to the forthcoming referendum on membership of the European Union in the United Kingdom. The PvdA supports the government to make maximum efforts to keep the United Kingdom with the EU. This seems possible, given the conditions. The Netherlands too, including the PvdA, is for a Europe with better rules, for a more important role for national parliaments and for maintaining the principle of subsidiarity. The EU has powers only if the tasks are cross-border and cannot be addressed nationally. The Netherlands will now be President of the European Union for the next six months and the Netherlands, with Prime Minister Rutte in charge, will have a discussion with the British on this matter. I ask the government, precisely to put that labour mobility package back on the list of priorities for the next six months, also because it offers an opportunity to address the grievances of the British and ensure that they remain with the Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u27	President, we are talking today about the last European summit for the Dutch Presidency. The CDA urges the Prime Minister to make clear to his colleagues what the Dutch priorities are. The Presidency will, not because of the choice of the Netherlands, but because of what is happening, be the focus of the refugees, the relationship between the EU and Turkey and security. There will also be two important referendums in the European Union. Last week, in various debates, we discussed the EU-Turkey deal in detail. We have seen Parliamentary questions answered on this matter today. Because of the many documents to which reference is made, my group sometimes fails to understand exactly what agreements are being made. I say this because there is a letter from the President of the Commission to the Turkish Government, the Prime Minister, in which these agreements are put on paper. But if we ask for that letter or if 33 MEPs do so under the leadership of Mr Schake of the D66/ALDE Group, this letter will not come up. The letter would contain a clear political commitment to do certain things or not. Is the Prime Minister prepared to make this letter clear, or at least to make it confidential, so that we know what is being promised? Unfortunately, our motion to investigate Turkish involvement in arms supplies to ISIS and oil smuggling has been rejected once again. Nevertheless, this remains a very annoying and controversial point. The role of Turkey must be clarified in international politics. How is this cleared up? How do we make sure all the noses are in the same direction? After all, if the border between Turkey and Syria remains porous in the wrong way, we can make agreements, but we really do do so with the wrong country. The Turkish media also report that the Turkish government is suspicious of the deal with the EU about refugees. She wants everything on paper. What commitments does Turkey require from the EU at this summit? What is the Dutch Government prepared to give? We're not going to open new chapters or commit to that, are we? I would also like to reiterate the need to set firm conditions. Two of them are important. I'll repeat them. The Dutch Government has said that Turkey will be given the same strict conditions for visa-free travel in relation to passports. I'd like to know what's going on with those passports. We see many false passports coming from Turkey or Syria. They are going to be a huge problem for the refugee issue, for separating the goats from the sheep to see who really is a refugee and who comes in here on a wrong passport. These reforms are extremely urgent, with or without visa-free travel. Is there any pressure on Turkey or are we waiting for it? Furthermore, Turkey should simply sign the UN Refugee Convention and the New York Protocol. Unfortunately, my motion was rejected, but the government would be committed to acting in its spirit. If refugees in Turkey do not get refugee status from the UN, all these people will eventually want to leave. That's what happens in the Middle East. Then the standard in Europe is higher and we will see zero refugees in Saudi Arabia, hundreds of thousands of refugees in Turkey and millions of refugees in Germany. That's a little weird when the conflict is in Syria. The EU-Ukraine Association Agreement will enter into force provisionally on 1 January. My question is how the Dutch Government will behave in the referendum. We would like to know, especially after the visit of the President of Ukraine to the Tower, what the Dutch Government will do if a 'yes' comes out of a valid referendum and what it will do if a 'no' comes out of a valid referendum. Will the Dutch Government then table a legislative proposal to ratify the treaty or withdraw it? Can the government at least promise that the association agreement will not be ratified without the consent of the Lower House and the Upper House? That is not clear in the law. This question may also be answered in writing if necessary. Unlike the referendum on Ukraine, the referendum on the United Kingdom is on the agenda. The CDA believes that the Netherlands should do everything in its power to keep the UK within the EU. However, we must also see these negotiations as an opportunity. I agree with previous speakers who said that many of the things the UK wants are also in the Dutch interest. Even the last point, the in-work benefits, has a relationship with our surcharges I can assure everyone. What the British are doing, actually, is adding up in the square. However, they do it work-related. It's weird for them to do that to people who only temporarily reside in their country. Get all your creativity out of that. This ultimately works to increase support for our own social security. For us, it is very important that the British remain in the Union. They are not only an important trading partner, but also an important partner in many discussions in which the Netherlands and Great Britain are on the same side. I have a few separate issues that are also on the agenda, starting with the capital market union. Can the Prime Minister promise that pensions will remain outside and that we will not go to a pension union? I, too, have seen the whole package of letters and proposals that came in today. I have seen that there is no cabinet juice appreciation coming but that there is talk about the migration package. I don't think that's desirable. I understand the speed, but can the Prime Minister ensure that next time there is a week in between so that we can take the package? I, too, have seen the proposal that Sweden does not have to accept refugees for a year. I can show you the whole piece here. It's at least 15 documents. The government simply refers to the website, an hour before the debate, where you can see what is being proposed. The point is that only two hotspots work, in Italy and Greece, and that the other ten, which have been promised for months and months, do not come off the ground. It can't be. The Five Presidents' Report is being discussed. The government withdraws from the long-term proposals, but one of the five presidents was Minister Dijsselbloem. Is the government really abandoning Minister Dijsselbloem's plans? Are we not more likely to see the President, the Netherlands, making a proposal in the next six months, where the Prime Minister of the Netherlands, who is also President, disagrees? If that happens, we will have very complicated discussions in the Chamber. Finally, Russia and Ukraine are on the agenda. We have still not received radar and satellite data from Russia and no radar data from Ukraine 500 days after that date. My parliamentary questions will not be answered. There is no pressure on these countries. Is the Prime Minister prepared to bring this up at European level in order to persuade those countries to send these data to the Dutch researchers so that we finally know how that rocket has flown?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u28	This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'm suspending the meeting until 8:55 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u29	I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u30	Mr. Chairman. I thought it would be good to split the answer in two. First of all, I will answer the questions that have been raised about migration, about the Commission's proposals that have been received today on resettlement and Frontex, about Turkey, Greece, Italy, about hotspots and about voluntary relocation, that whole piece. Then I come to the other questions. I'll start with migration. I agree with Mr Van 't Wout, who says that you have to be careful to solve problems in the short term. The cabinet sails on the compass of the cabinet letter of early September. It provides both for measures to significantly reduce the influx into Europe and for measures to ensure that there is a fair redistribution of people in Europe. So there are two objectives: to destroy the business model of the smugglers, to get to Europe, and to prevent asylum shopping in Europe to the countries they want to go to. The cabinet has, with broad support from the Chamber of Representatives, a view on how we want to achieve this in the medium and longer term. In Europe we work along these lines. Nevertheless, this is a step-by-step approach, which cannot always be avoided. I do not mind that, as long as those steps can be placed in the long-term perspective. I believe that can be done often. The biggest problem is that the steps for the shorter term are not always successful. For the next few weeks, the question is essential as to whether the agreements we have reached with Turkey are sustainable and whether they will stop the influx of refugees from Syria and other countries to Europe. Against this background, the cabinet will look at the Commission's proposals on resettlement and Frontex. These are proposals that have been received today. I can make a few positive comments on this, but we will really have to take more time. I also expect the European Council to do nothing more than note that they are there and pass them on to the relevant Council configurations. This is also referred to here as the 'treatment reserve'. If you want to successfully apply the relay, you not only need to dry up the power from Turkey, but you also need to be able to send people back. This is perfectly clear, otherwise you will indeed have two migratory flows. This will be part of it. We are going to go into all this further in detail to report to the Chamber. Once again, I can make a few positive comments on this, but of course I will not do so until I have given Mr Verhoeven the opportunity to do so. He's already got answers from me, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u31	I wish. Mr Van 't Wout also said that we still have to look at it. I told him I'd be okay with that. Now the Prime Minister says the same thing. However, the Minister for Foreign Affairs has already sent a press release on this matter. He says: we support the European Border Guard. I am curious to hear the Prime Minister's appreciation of that word being used very often lately, whereas the Foreign Minister has actually already said that we should do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u32	Yes. I'll connect those two here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u33	Yeah, and then pairing without getting traded, that's important.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u34	Coupling with merchanting leads to slipping engines and decoupling. We think a few things are extremely important, also from the cabinet letter of early September. First of all, if you manage to dry up the flow of asylum seekers to Europe, you will have to work towards the instrument of resolution. We welcome the fact that the Commission is coming forward with proposals on resettlement, which we will then examine carefully. The same applies to the border guard. I've said it here before. You will have to grow into a system in Europe where the external borders are much more closely controlled. There's a lot to say about it. Are these the right proposals? Does it have to be done this way? However, we very much welcome the fact that the Commission is coming forward with proposals on better border control. All this must be seen in the context of the tasks that Member States have as members of Schengen. Comments have been made on this, including from the Chamber. You can ask questions like when this border guard can be deployed and how to prevent the suction effect on refugees. These are all very relevant issues that we need to consider in the further appreciation of, or otherwise said assessment of, or reflection on, the Commission's proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u35	I have a follow-up question, following the Minister's answer. What I'm a little afraid of with these kinds of answers is that the word "elaborate" becomes a bit of the way to implement any plan that we actually have difficulty implementing for domestic use. For example, the VVD says that she does not really like the transfer of sovereignty at all, Koenders says that we are going to do it and the Prime Minister says: yes, we are going to do it, we think it is a good idea, but everything depends on the outcome. Each time the effects are fine a few months later and we just took steps that we didn't want to take a few months earlier. That's how we keep moving up little bits. Now it's moving in the right direction, so that's what I find as D66 positive. However, it does contribute to a somewhat difficult feeling about decision-making about Europe. Can the Prime Minister go into that again? After all, such a cheerful press release by the Minister for Foreign Affairs suggests that we are simply going to do this and that the effect is really only a small point, whereas the Prime Minister says that the effect is crucial.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u36	That's my previous answer, isn't it? We are enthusiastic about it in itself when the Commission comes up with proposals on these important issues. The proposal was presented at 5 p.m. this afternoon and there is a treatment reservation. We are going to examine it carefully, also in close dialogue with the Chamber, and comment on it. I have made the comparison with the Roman Empire to great anger of letter writers, but I keep making it. People should not think that I mean that asylum seekers are barbarians. No, of course not. They're people who, like you and I, don't want to live between the bombs and the grenades and that's why they're on the run. I would like to make the comparison with the Roman Empire as to what happens if you simply do not secure your external borders as a major union. That's a lesson we can learn from history. There's too much porosity and the question is how to solve it. What is the Member State's job and what is Europe's job, what are you doing together and what are you doing as an individual partner in the European Union? We must now look further at the proposals. At least we are not going to make any decisions about that this week. I thought Mr Fritsma would be reassured by now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u37	On the contrary, because I understand that the Prime Minister is going along with that nasty EU proposal to take over border control powers. What the Prime Minister is doing here is simply giving up an important piece of our national sovereignty, giving up border control. I can't believe the Prime Minister's going along with that. Why does he allow the Netherlands to pay the price for the fact that it is a mess in southern Europe? It is not only Greece that loses border control of the EU, but also the Netherlands. Why would he let that happen? Why is he okay with it? Why doesn't he protest that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u38	There is no provision for the Netherlands to transfer its border control to the European Union. The only question is what to do if Member States prove unable to fulfil their Schengen responsibilities. Of course, they must always be called upon to do so, because countries are always kept to ensure, in the end, that they do assume their responsibilities. This proposal also does not relieve them of their obligation to assume that responsibility. Member States must, of course, do so themselves. The same applies to the Netherlands. The fact is that at the moment the situation between Greece and Turkey has long been such that there is insufficient control of the external border. That is not desirable. That is even very undesirable, especially now that we are dealing with a large flow of refugees and, for example, the registration of refugees in Greece is not getting off to a good start. This proposal looks, as I understand it, to be able to act together as a European Union in these situations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u39	Indeed, there are situations in which all EU Member States, including the Netherlands, are losing their powers in terms of border control. That is a very important point in principle. I really don't understand why the Prime Minister is okay with that. After all, he has always said in the past that we must be careful not to give even more powers to the EU. The same Prime Minister is now simply giving away powers over our own border control. Doesn't the Prime Minister himself see the hypocrisy of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u40	I'm just surprised at what Mr Fritsma says. If the PVV stands for something, it is for strong security and surveillance of our external borders. There are now proposals to look more closely at the surveillance of these external borders and at the gaps in them, but the PVV responds by saying: no, we do not. That is what Mr Fritsma says, while even the leader of the PVV said quite recently in an interview, I think it was in the General Dagblad that the closing of the Dutch borders is not going to work either. So you will eventually have to take responsibility for external borders. The European Union must do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u41	I was addressed very directly, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u42	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u43	So I would like to correct this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u44	In short, Mr Fritsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u45	The Prime Minister knows damn well that the PVV wants to close the borders and no more asylum seekers. The PVV also does not want to allow procedures or reception. That is quite different from what the Prime Minister is talking about. The point is that we should not be dependent on the chaos that the EU is making of it. The Prime Minister is making himself dependent on it. The solution is not to be dependent on the EU or on Turkey. Take matters into your own hands. Choose the Netherlands. Close the Dutch borders. Then you're in charge of what's going on here. Then you're in charge of your own country and across your own borders. The Prime Minister's giving it all away.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u46	If I were Mr Fritsma, I would understand myself with my own leader. He says quite different things about that. I always listen very carefully to Mr Fritsma's leader.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u47	Not me, Mr. Chairman. What exactly is the Prime Minister's view of this? This is now about a country like Greece, but it could, of course, also happen to the Netherlands. Imagine that other countries find that we in the Netherlands are long-term in default with, for example, our own coastal surveillance. A lot of people come into the country illegally or not. How am I supposed to see that? Do Germans, Italians and French come here unsolicited on Dutch territory? Are they going to check outside our territorial waters, or just inside? How exactly am I supposed to imagine that? How, for example, could this work in Greece?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u48	I'm not going to speculate on that right now. There is now a proposal from the Commission to take sensible steps in resolving the issue of under-controlled borders. How sensible they are, we're going to study. That is also what we are discussing with the Chamber and in Europe. However, the Commission has just made a proposal on this; we have hardly been able to study it. Therefore, it seems to me that it would go a little far to speculate already. If Rutte had to think of it, how would he do it? Of course, I have ideas about everything, but in this case I want to force myself to be reluctant and not spout. After all, there is only just one proposal from Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u49	I'm starting to get a little confused about this. Every time it comes to this kind of debate on rather fundamental issues, it is said: no, we have not yet reached that stage and we are not yet able to answer it. The Prime Minister has indicated that he would feel that a little more coercion could be used to assist countries in guarding their own borders. At least that's how I understood it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u50	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u51	The Netherlands is also a country located at the external borders of the European Union. Then how does the Prime Minister see this? I'm really curious about that. This is something that could also concern the Netherlands. It is indeed a question of a transfer of powers; I agree with the PVV spokesperson. This really has to do with the sovereignty of the countries. I would like to hear more about the Prime Minister's views on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u52	I really refer to my previous answer. I really think there are problems with those external borders. I also believe that we can discuss endlessly questions such as what is the job of the Member States, what is intergovernmental and what is to be done at Community level etc. I find that all very interesting, but the problems have to be solved. The Commission is now making proposals to this effect. We need to study them carefully. However, it goes too far to say from the Netherlands, or from my position: if I were the European Commission, I would do a, b and c. It goes too far to mention a whole action plan now. There's just a proposal, so let's take a closer look at it first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u53	I would like to ask a brief question, Mr President. I am pleased that it has been said that we need to ensure that the external borders are properly guarded. I am also in favour of this if that means that sovereignty must be transferred. We just need to make sure we get this right. The Prime Minister says: I want to talk more about the impact. That's clear. Then why did he tell Juncker that this would be a priority during the Dutch Presidency? According to the foreign press, the Prime Minister told Juncker that. When you say that, aren't you past the stage of weighing the effects? I am really looking for the hardness of the plan and the enthusiasm of the cabinet about it. Coenders says yes. Rutte says in the Chamber: well, look at the effect first. Rutte says to the foreign press: this is a priority. I find that difficult.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u54	No, of course Koenders and Rutte say the same thing. I just explained that to you. I do not understand where these messages in the European press come from about my conversation with Juncker on this point. Last week I told Jean-Claude Juncker what our priorities are, namely the current issues of migration and the fight against terrorism, and a deeper and fairer European common market. This has to do with the proposals on equal pay for equal work up to and including strengthening the market for digital services, for other services, for capital and for energy. That is what we want to bet on. And I have said that I realise that the issue of continued British membership of the European Union will also be a major issue in our Presidency.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u55	I'm just trying to assess the Prime Minister's position, because he's going to that Council the day after tomorrow. Does he say: I am far from ready for the transfer of sovereignty from the Netherlands? Or does he say, "I think it's a good proposal?" I believe that Minister Koenders has already used that kind of wording. What is the Prime Minister's position?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u56	Now that this proposal is just out, it is too early for the European Council to develop a deep-seated view on it. Moreover, we are not talking about this; the relevant Council formations are about that. That should be discussed really well in the relevant Council formations. That's the well-known treatment preservation. I am glad that the Commission is putting forward proposals, because it is a relevant issue. The same applies to settlements. These are important issues, both of which need to be properly discussed. I have a very pragmatic view of this issue. I've said that before here in the Chamber. I have repeated it time and again: national, intergovernmental, Community; as long as that border is secured. That's all I care about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u57	In what the Prime Minister is now saying, I also hear a principle of subsidiarity. In his own coalition agreement, too, he has said so before. Does he not therefore rule out the possibility of a 'no' coming from the Netherlands and that there may be sufficient room for the alternatives, which also come through a parliamentary reservation, to prevent us from transferring sovereignty?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u58	I am not ruling anything out, but we are pleased that the Commission is coming up with a proposal that we are going to study carefully. It's a little crazy to say: I'm not ruling out that we're gonna say no. You can never rule that out, but that's a bit of a negative approach. There is now at last a proposal that meets the need for a proposal and the content of which must now be carefully examined. That's what we're going to discuss with the Chamber. Actually, that's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u59	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u60	The same applies to resettlement. There were questions about that too. These are two large packages that we need to discuss further. A number of other questions were asked on the broad theme of Turkey, Dublin and migration. This is really ripe and green mixed up. A lot of questions have been asked, and that is a good thing. It was very difficult for me to put an exact order in that. Let me start with the question of Dublin transfers to Greece and Italy. Those to Greece have been suspended much earlier as a result of the circumstances. This is not the case for Italy. If a person is found here who came to the Netherlands on his own accord, he has bypassed the system, even if he is from Italy. If we were to say "stay here," the whole system of hotspots would be really undermined. It couldn't be. What about the relocations? During the debate on 5 November, Secretary of State Dijkhoff for Security and Justice announced that the Netherlands will start to relocate asylum seekers from Italy. The Italians are now selecting asylum seekers for relocation to the Netherlands. Files have been received by now. This is now being looked at to see if we have all the information, before the relocations to the Netherlands will also be organized. There's contact with Italy about that. He spoke of 50 relocations as the first quota. It's a well-known fact. That is what we discussed at the time. How is human rights violations handled in the refugee chain? How are they monitored in Turkey? The reception of refugees according to international standards is an important element of the agreements we have made with Turkey and the countries on the Western Balkans route. The pre-accession instruments, the Instrument for Pre-Accession (IPA), support projects in Turkey and the Western Balkans to bring the migration chain in line with European standards. The action plan with Turkey will in principle be monitored once a month by representatives of the European institutions and the Presidency. The Netherlands is therefore involved in this over the next six months and then through the new troika, the trio presidency, i.e. indirectly through Slovakia and Malta. We will provide the required data for this purpose. Member States will also share their information in the process. Migrants are primarily registered in the hotspots. That is therefore the responsibility of the Member State that monitors the external border. We contribute to this through the agencies: Frontex (Frontières extérieures), EASO (European Asylum Support Office) but also BST (Border Support Teams). We cannot force migrants to register. We can promote this through a number of pragmatic measures. As chairman, the Netherlands will keep and monitor the functioning of the hotspots on the European agenda. It's crucial that the hotspots get there now. Countries must also fulfil their obligations; we insist on this. This also means registration in Eurodac. There is currently no possibility of imposing sanctions on countries. We are therefore firmly committed to ensuring that everyone participates and that the existing obligations are fulfilled. This concerns the issue of registration and sanctions, which Mrs Gesthuizen asked about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u61	The Prime Minister briefly mentioned the issue of human rights violations in Turkey and the fact that this is monitored at least once a month. I asked about the connection to the 3 billion. If there were human rights violations, not in an occasional case, but in a structural way, does that have any consequences for the agreements that have been made with Turkey?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u62	Let me also answer Mr Voordewind's question about the Turkey Refugee Facility. At the moment, it seems that in financial terms it amounts to 1 billion from the European pot and 2 billion from the Member States. For the Netherlands, the contribution may be slightly lower than the 117 million we expected when the European contribution would first be 500 million. The contribution will be slightly lower. It seems that there is consensus over the 1 billion versus the 2 billion. The Turkey Refugee Facility is set up to assist Turkey in the reception of refugees in Turkey and in the direct consequences of the influx of refugees into that country. So the facility is not being set up for the benefit of the Turkish Government, as we have said on many occasions. The projects are currently being identified, as the facility is still being set up. The allocation of funds is expected to take place through the Commission's regular humanitarian channels, including civil society. This also affects Mr Voordewind's motion. I do not want us to have any ear tags in advance. We must retain as much flexibility as possible in order to be able to use the right projects. We also need civil society to be selected. As we know, the money goes not only to the camps, but also to the communities in Turkey where there are many Syrians. We also take part in the allocation steering group. Here too, we will focus on supporting good projects from civil society. Of course, the issue of human rights is also an important issue, but in itself the dialogue on human rights and its monitoring takes place separately. Apart from the accession process, there is a separate human rights dialogue with Turkey, i.e. separate from the accession process and separate from the Turkey Refugee Facility. Of course, we will include the relevant signals in this dialogue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u63	I would like to hear from the Prime Minister whether all the questions relating to this section have already been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u64	About migration?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u65	No, about human rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u66	Yes. Those questions have been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u67	It is clear to me that the Prime Minister says that the 3 billion goes mainly to organisations where we are sure they will work with refugees. The money does not go to the Turkish government, so it may not be appropriate to say that we are taking back the money when the Turkish government is guilty of human rights violations. That's obvious. The porte of my question was that we will soon assign Turkey more responsibilities in relation to refugees who are in Turkey and who may be on their way to the European Union, also in the light of the possible designation of Turkey as a safe country. What means does the European Union have? In what way are we going to try to influence the human rights situation, especially as regards refugees, in the light of the signals we receive that human rights are not properly protected in some cases?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u68	With Turkey, but also with countries on the Western Balkans route, we have agreed on the reception of refugees. It must comply with international law standards. Through projects from the pre-accession instruments, we have projects running in Turkey and the Western Balkans to support the migration chain. The issue of human rights is therefore constantly being looked at. This is separate from the regular human rights dialogue that we have with Turkey. In this way, relevant signals will have to come through. Then I come to the safe third country, on which Mrs Gesthuizen asked a question. There is no EU proposal on a list of safe third countries. This is assessed on an individual basis. Then there must also be opportunities for people to be taken back, for example Syrians who come to Europe via Turkey. This is the subject of a Greek-Turkish agreement. If it were to be activated, the Syrians would be able to return to Turkey more easily, as we discussed last time in the debate on the State of the Union. These cases are all part of the conversations. However, there is a Commission proposal on safe countries of origin. The Netherlands supports that. Turkey is in that proposal. The Commission has looked at the candidate countries and potential candidate countries. One of its important considerations is that respect for human rights is part of the assessment to achieve candidate status at all. Turkey has not only candidate status, but is also NATO partner. We know from the Commission that we are working on the fact that Turkish legislation contains human rights provisions and anti-discrimination provisions that provide adequate protection against persecution and abuse. A progress report on this issue is published every year. A question has been asked about the Refugee Convention. The Europe and Turkey Action Plan agreed that Turkey will have to meet the conditions of the visa liberalisation roadmap as soon as possible. The declaration of 29 November mentions the target date of October 2016, but only if Turkey meets all the relevant conditions, with which we do not negotiate. One of the conditions of the roadmap is that Turkey brings its refugee legislation into line with the Convention on Refugees and the 1967 Protocol. The Commission has indicated that Turkey is on its way. It adopted a law on foreigners and international protection in 2014. That law must be further aligned with the Refugee Convention. The Commission will report on progress in implementing the visa liberalisation roadmap in spring 2016 and autumn 2016. If everything goes as planned, Turkey should have brought its legislation into line with the 1967 Refugee Convention and Protocol by the end of 2016. Moreover, this does not mean that the territorial limitation must necessarily be lifted if the same conditions are to be met in practice. It will be clear to the Chamber: the cabinet will not agree to visa liberalisation until all the strict conditions are met, including these Turkish obligations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u69	The current Turkish legislation mainly concerns Syrian refugees, but not refugees from other countries. Should Turkey amend legislation on refugees coming from other countries, for example from Iraq, including a neighbour from which many refugees may come? Or is this limited only to Syria?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u70	This is primarily limited to Syria, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u71	There are Dutch F-16s operating over Iraq because ISIS has large areas there. The former Foreign Minister, Mr Timmermans, has acknowledged that ISIS may be guilty of genocide. Therefore, people fleeing from there do not need to be recognised as refugees in Turkey. The problem remains that Turkey does not provide adequate shelter for those people. Does the Dutch Government consider it appropriate to agree with Turkey that Turkey should not receive refugees from Iraq?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u72	Mr Omtzigt always knows how to ask me a question to which I do not have the answer, yet I think I am prepared for the last man. I shall come back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u73	I understand that the Prime Minister has said that before visa liberalisation can begin, the Refugee Convention must be signed. If the Refugee Convention is signed in its entirety, should Iraq's refugees also be received? Did I say what the Prime Minister said so well?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u74	I have to say it very precisely, because this is always such a terrible legal wasp nest. One of the conditions of the visa liberalisation roadmap is that Turkey brings its refugee legislation into line with the Convention on Refugees and the 1967 Protocol. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u75	This means that there must also be reception for Iraqi refugees, because then Turkey will be subject to the Refugee Convention in the broadest sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u76	Thank you to Mr Voordewind, because I immediately answered Mr Omtzigt's question which I would have liked to move on to the second term. Mr Omtzigt was right: it has that width. Agreed. Good. That's even better. In Lebanon, the Netherlands is one of the largest donors. We've discussed that before. This year is really about a lot of money. Some EUR 110 million is being released, but that is not enough. The Netherlands believes that not only agreements should be made with Turkey, but that if you want to reduce this flow of refugees to Europe to a very important extent, this type of agreement will also have to be made with other neighbouring countries. That is why discussions are also under way, including discussions between both Foreign Ministers and the High Representative and the Commission, on partnerships with Lebanon and Jordan. There too, we will have to address the needs. I very much agree with Mrs Gesthuizen. I'll come back to Turkey. As part of the visa roadmap, several agreements have been made on the quality and protection of passports. Turkish documents will have to meet European requirements. This means, among other things, that Turkey will have to introduce biometric passports. The visa waiver, which is currently being looked at, will of course apply only to Turkish citizens and not to refugees. I come to the humanitarian situation at the border with Macedonia. I would suggest first of all that we have seen a lot of poignant images in recent months, including the situation at the borders of Macedonia. Countries along the Western Balkans route have recently been completely overwhelmed by the numbers of migrants. It is, of course, very important that the humanitarian situation there improves. That is why aid is also being provided: joint meetings between the countries of the Western Balkans and the Union, additional funds totalling 8.5 million extra for Macedonia and Serbia, and a number of practical needs. We can see that the situation along the Western Balkans route is part of the overall migration problem, which we will naturally be busy with during our presidency. I come to the letter from Juncker, the President of the European Commission, to Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoğlu of Turkey. I have in front of me the questions that I believe have been answered today, which also state that the cabinet is not empowered to give access to a letter from the European Commission to a third party. It is an official Commission document, subject to the usual disclosure rules. The contents of the letter have been notified to the Chamber. Mrs Maij asked the general question: what does the Netherlands actually do about migration? Actually, you see that on three fronts. First of all, humanitarian aid, development aid and contributions to Syria, Lebanon, Jordan and Turkey. This amounts to more than 170 million euros in 2015. Same thing in Africa, but then you talk about almost 45 million euros. Secondly, there is a contribution of 15 million to the EU Trust Fund and we are looking with the Commission at a contribution to the Madad Fund, the trust fund for Syria. Thirdly, we supply a lot of hotspots. In the first year, the Dutch share is 17% of the promised aid. In response to a request from Frontex 35 experts, border guards and interpreters as well as two KMar land vehicles will be made available. Frontex will then decide where these experts can best be deployed. In 2015, a total of around 120 border guards and other experts will be temporarily active in operations in several Member States, including Greece, Italy, Hungary and Bulgaria. In addition, the Netherlands will temporarily deploy 40 interpreters for Frontex throughout 2015. We have deployed the Coast Guard aircraft several times and a fast patrol vessel in Greece between July and October. I would also like to mention buses for migrant transport and land vehicles. In September of this year. Frontex asked another question. This has led to another 15 border guards and 20 interpreters, on top of the aforementioned commitment. Looking at the figures, I assume that the Netherlands will contribute significantly in 2016 and will fight above its own weight class. This is what I wanted to answer the questions about migration, Turkey, hotspots and the two major Commission proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u77	There's one more question I haven't answered. I had asked the Prime Minister not to participate in the redistribution of Syrians from Turkey to the EU. Can the Prime Minister make that commitment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u78	I have just replied to Mr Van 't Wout's comment. We think it is logical that, if Turkey were to succeed in curbing the influx of refugees to Europe towards zero and eventually reaching zero, you should of course be prepared to bring groups of people from Turkey to Europe. Otherwise the pressure on Turkey will become too big and the crane will open again. They will be lower, much lower numbers than there are now irregularly coming to Europe. For that you will indeed have to have agreements about return and that the influx has been reduced to a significant extent. The situation that Mr Fritsma is suggesting is that this is on top of the current. If that were the proposal of the cabinet or the Commission, Mr Fritsma is of course quite right: we would be insane.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u79	But then I want to know exactly what the proposal is. Mr Orbán spoke of 500 000 Syrians to be brought from Turkey to the EU. Mr Dijkhoff has denied that again. What exactly is on the table? What exactly are we talking about? It can't be that there's absolutely no clarity about the numbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u80	I have just explained in detail that the proposal came this afternoon. It will be dealt with in the relevant Council configurations and will also be reviewed by the Cabinet. At present, no minimum number has been mentioned by the Commission. That will therefore have to be looked at further.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u81	This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u82	No, no. I'm afraid I have a bunch of questions to answer. The first speakers in particular have asked a lot of questions; I want to serve them all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u83	I hear Mr Verhoeven saying that we are going through the night, but as far as I am concerned, that is not happening. However, I have one more question to ask to help a little bit to go that way. The Prime Minister replied very briefly to my comments on Lebanon. I think it is important that we are realistic when we are discussing this with each other. We all want realistic solutions to this global refugee crisis. I cannot do it for many people if it is always said in this House that we are going to find a solution called shelter in the region, and that countries such as Lebanon, for example, are being pointed out. If we are realistic, we know that there is no support there at the moment, not among the population, nor, in fact, with the Lebanese government. How am I supposed to see the Netherlands, or the European Union, making agreements with a country like Lebanon, when it comes to receiving even more refugees from Syria, for example?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u84	The first question is: how do you prevent people in Lebanon, for example because of a lack of food, from going hungry, the bottom step of the Maslow pyramid, for that reason alone, fleeing to Europe? One of the first tasks we have is to ensure that the situation there stabilizes. That is also why we have contributed a great deal to the World Food Programme, because there was a problem there. I have just mentioned the very large sums that the Netherlands spends in these countries. I also very much support the Commission's initiatives to make similar agreements with Lebanon and perhaps Jordan if the agreements with Turkey succeed. So you will continue to invest in education and health care, for example. It is not so much that we want to see if Lebanon can accept any more refugees. The first task is to prevent the situation from leading refugees to Europe. And Mrs Gesthuizen is, of course, right that Lebanon is already taking in a lot of refugees.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u85	Finally, Mrs Gesthuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u86	I will try to put it as briefly as possible. The VVD, a party that knows the Prime Minister very well, has said a number of times here: we cannot cope in the Netherlands, we cannot cope with the tens of thousands of people coming to the Netherlands this year: we cannot. Do I understand that the cabinet says: we cannot arrange it here in our own country, but we are going to make sure that a country like Lebanon, with 1.5 million refugees, can handle it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u87	The situation at the moment is that refugees go first and foremost to the countries around the country where there is war. So we are going to Turkey, Jordan and Lebanon. The idea of government policy is that you support those countries in the reception of these large groups. Of course, the pressure on Lebanese society is enormous. Mrs Gesthuizen is absolutely right about that. The aim of the cabinet policy is to ensure, together with the European partners, that the situation in the country is such that the people who are there today remain there. I do not suppose Mrs Gesthuizen has the plan to say to all those people: come to Europe. But it's not all easy. I'm not saying you arranged that tomorrow. However, our common effort must be to prevent everyone from immediately being in Germany or the Netherlands. You want them to stay in the region. I thought the SP supported that, too. It means that you must do everything you can to ensure that the conditions for the people who are now in Lebanon improve there. This has to do with education, health and, very primarily, food, so also put money into the World Food Programme, what we have done. I can't make it any prettier. Then I come to the Better Regulation package. I think we can all be positive about that package in general. It is also good that there is now almost an interinstitutional agreement on Better Regulation. This is something that the Council and the European Parliament must do, and it is also being prepared through the Chamber. It is especially important now that we focus on ambitious implementation. We are going to do this in part during our presidency. The Commission has thought: let us begin first. This means that not the large organisations are taken as the starting point, but that the feasibility for SMEs is looked at in particular. It is now important that we continue to work on a joint EU agenda in the Competition Council. We will also work on this during our presidency. We have all advised positively on the four motions that have been adopted. They are also all policy support. Mkb: Yes. Pleading for a mandatory lobby register and informing the Chamber: yes, that is possible. Horizon provisions where possible: this is part of the interinstitutional agreement. Reduction targets, and then not generic but smartly formulated objectives: the package gives room for this; I believe that Mr Van 't Wout's motion was about this. Moreover, the Commission has not yet done its task of setting its own objectives. In the preliminary agreement and the chapter simplification, that comes back to it. We are therefore pleased with it and we are also going to keep a very close eye on the fact that it is being properly filled out. All in all, there are good proposals. Good work has been done by the first Vice-President, who has also been given due regard for the various rulings of the Chamber. As far as the FMO projects are concerned, Mrs Gesthuizen lost me in a deep and dark forest. I would suggest that I ask the person responsible to answer Mrs Gesthuizen's question in the letter that goes to the Chamber with an assessment of the COP21 climate agreement. I also agree with Mrs Maij that my colleague Sharon Dijksma has done a good job, which, despite only a month's work in this job, dominated a number of discussions in Paris. Sweden has not been released from the obligation as such; it has only been postponed for one year as regards its obligation under the relocation programme. Then I come to the point that Mr Koenders would have said: I would like another Secretary of State. I understand he did say that, but with a view to a future cabinet period. So we're gonna talk about that again at the formation. You all know that this Prime Minister is in favour of a small government. And then you start at the top. The big advantage of a small cabinet is that you don't run the risk of people looking for work, but that everyone is so busy that they're happy to survive.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u88	We sometimes joke about vision and such, but this cabinet also has a few dogmas, such as: the number of CBOs should be reduced and the number of directors should remain low. These are all very important things and they are also constantly being hammered on. They've almost become some kind of principle.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u89	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u90	My question is this. I have a feeling that the Foreign Minister is very busy and that perhaps the water is on his mind. As far as I am concerned, when he makes this kind of statement, of course, he says that it is necessary for a subsequent period of office, as far as I am concerned, to ask whether he can handle it all and whether it is still feasible for him, also because the Minister of Defence is sitting in front for 26 days instead of the Minister of Foreign Affairs. That's a serious indicator, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u91	Look what I'm gonna do! I'm not asking for an assistant prime minister. We are presidents, and that, of course, takes a tremendous amount of time from all of us. So that's gonna be huge for everyone in the next six months. The Minister for Defence has been kind enough to say that I am a former MEP, let me just attend some of those European Parliament meetings where the Presidency should really be present. Well, I appreciate that. This is in very good agreement with the Foreign Minister, who, as the Foreign Minister of the preside over country, is also obliged to represent the Union not only in Europe but sometimes in other parts of the world, not all of which can be done by the High Representative. It is true: from 1 January there is a huge amount of work to be done. Of course, we have looked at whether you could appoint an additional member of your government for that six months. You should see what you have to do for that. You'll have to work it out. We finally chose not to. This is independent of whether you should appoint an additional Secretary of State for the Presidency. In fact, Mr Koenders did not propose this. He said that in a subsequent period, you could consider a separate Secretary of State. We'll see about that at the next formation. Let's see who's at the table first. I don't know yet, and neither does the Chamber. It's kind of funny that Mr Verhoeven says it's going to be a dogma. If he doesn't like a vision, it becomes a dogma to him. I'm starting to learn. I would say: now be glad that there is a vision here, that this cabinet has the vision that there should be a small government and that it should start at the summit. You can't say you hire fewer secretaries. No, you start with top management.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u92	Briefly, Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u93	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and I apologize for starting to talk without your permission. That is the enthusiasm in the debate on this point. It's really an opportunity for me. It is important that we carry out the Dutch Presidency well. Indeed, a great deal of work is expected for this. Is Mr Koenders' comment really just a sort of idea of the future that we may have to implement, or is it a little relevant to the situation for the next six months? I'm gonna ask you one more time. In the way he answered my questions about campaigning last week, for example, there was really something like: there's no time, we're not going to do that, that's all difficult, that's a lot of work and I don't want to do that. Or: I have too much on my plate, I push off a little because I can't take it all anymore. The Prime Minister is laughing at it a little bit, but I am seriously concerned about whether the Foreign Minister can handle all this because he has proposed this. The Prime Minister can laugh, but I'm serious.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u94	You're laughing, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u95	Yes, that may not be strong in terms of debate technique. I should have looked more seriously, but I mean it. Once again, I would like to receive an answer on the possibilities for the Foreign Minister to really lead the Presidency well, in the interests of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u96	First of all, I would like to say that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is in good health and can do the job. Secondly, I was there last week when the Ukrainian referendum was being discussed. Here Mr Verhoeven is a bit looking for his own hidden Easter eggs. He had then chosen as an attack that the cabinet did not do enough to the Ukrainian referendum. At some point Mr Koenders and I had to laugh at it very much when Mr Verhoeven came back to it in his second term. We said "There is no way of extracting this," no matter what we answer. This also has to do with the word 'campaign'. I associate that word with handing out flyers and ringing door-to-door in elections. Minister Koenders explained that, as a cabinet, the Foreign Minister and I, but the rest of the team will be following it, the next few days, all of us will seize opportunities that arise to explain why we support this association agreement and why we hope for a successful outcome to this referendum. What we are all talking about is the words 'campaigning' because they all call for echoes of electoral campaigns, and that is not what this is, or previous campaigns in the context of referendums. We simply want to talk directly with the Netherlands about why this is good. That's what we're gonna do. That's what the Foreign Minister's gonna do. I sat next to him last week. That is what he argued in detail at the time. I would like to come back to the composition of this cabinet. Minister Koenders said this at a meeting this weekend, but not with the intention of saying that he needed a Secretary of State for the Presidency. I would almost say the joke that we came to the conclusion at a separate meeting last week that things are going well with the Presidency. Then I said it was a little early because it still has to start. But so far preparations have been very pleasant and we still seem to be able to handle it all. I come to the sanctions against Russia. That was about Minsk. The short answer is: yes, I can confirm that we will not reduce sanctions against Russia until Minsk has been respected. I also have a long answer, but I'm gonna leave that alone for a while. I'll be on the Brexit. I very much agree with Mr Van 't Wout. It is very important that the UK stays with it. It is a country focused on exports, trade and the free market. This is what we need in a Europe that in many respects also has etatistic characters. We need partners such as Poland, Denmark, Sweden, Finland and the UK because they are countries that are focused on the free market. We are very keen to keep to it. The Netherlands is doing its best, but the British must also help us to help them. It is true: three of the four proposals seem more doable, a little more possible. This has to do with the position of non-euro countries, the position of national parliaments and the interpretation of the ever closer union of people. One's a little more complicated. The discussions on this will have to continue. At the moment, I cannot assess exactly what Tusk, the President of the European Council, intends to do on this point at the Council meeting on Thursday. I'm not exactly ready for that. Given the state of the debate, I can imagine that a second round will be needed to get out of this. We need to look very carefully at what we do with the fourth point, the four-year break at reward benefits. It seems complicated to agree on this, because there may be discrimination against non-English citizens. We need to consider whether we might be able to look for alternatives in the same atmosphere. Mrs. Maij said the cabinet in the GA writes... What is the GA? Oh, the annotated agenda. In the annotated agenda, the cabinet writes that some countries have argued that the European Council should set new conditions for infrastructure projects. Mrs Maij asked which countries and projects were involved. That has to do with Nord Stream 2. By letter, some Member States have argued that the European Council should lay down new conditions for the construction of new infrastructure. We believe that the construction and operation of new infrastructure projects should comply with current EU legislation, for example in the area of internal market rules and environmental requirements, so that you retain a clear, transparent and pre-verifiable review framework, which is essential for investment security.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u97	Excuse me, the GA upset me for a moment, but I would like to ask another question about the previous point, about the labour market in the United Kingdom. I spoke about the labour mobility package. At that point, if we shape it properly, we might be able to remove some of the British's concerns.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u98	Yeah, that's right. We also think that this could help. So far it has not been very successful to get the British over it, but we are working on it; also Minister Asscher of Social Affairs is doing so. Moreover, I fully agree with Mrs Maij on this point. We want not only a deeper, but also a fairer internal market. This combination is important for the political balance in Europe and because it is necessary in substance. The market needs to go deeper; I have just mentioned all the points of digital, services and energy. The market also needs to be fairer. Minister Asscher succeeded in getting this issue on the European agenda: equal pay for equal work in the same place is a text that the President of the Commission has adopted. We want the Commission to present this package as soon as possible in the next six months. We are also talking to the Commission about the fact that this labour mobility package is still being dealt with during our Presidency. Last week I spoke to Jean-Claude Juncker, the President of the Commission. We do believe that this can help in the discussion of keeping the British inside. I agree with Mrs Maij.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u99	The Prime Minister says he has talked to the Commission about this. We were told last week that the mobility package might be postponed, but now I understand that it is going to come around in the coming months and will come our way. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u100	We're doing the best we can for that. I cannot give guarantees, but everything is aimed at making real progress in the coming months. I'm coming up on PNR. Questions have been asked about this. That is a repetition of the whole debate on the state of the Union, but that is of course allowed. Indeed, all the questions and the answers to them are almost literally in the shorthand of the previous debate. A letter was sent on 10 December in response to questions from the Upper House about the risk profiles. At the heart of the matter is the following. We know that the Foreign Terrorist Fighters sometimes cut a trip: they travel through another EU Member State. This method is increasingly used by these terrorists to stay under the radar. It has been agreed that Member States will be able to implement the intra-European PNR system themselves. In the Council, the Member States agreed to pull this together, because that is the only way to maximise the added value of such a PNR system. And we are also constructive about sharing the data. We have also agreed to the inclusion of intra-EU PNR. This was also discussed at the JHA Council on 2 December, before the Council gave its assent on 3 and 4 December. We also discussed it last time, but then Mr Koenders was the one who answered the questions with the State of the Union. I think this is really a very important subject because it concerns the position of these terrorists and how you can track them when they make use of a trip that they cut up. Then you'll have to have these kinds of instruments, always looking at proportionality and privacy; I get it, and we all do. But it is really an investigative tool that can make an important contribution to recognising the travel movements of these terrorists, but also, of course, of serious criminals and their networks. Finally, Mr Omtzigt's question on MH17. I can tell him that the answers to the parliamentary questions are sent very soon. That seems to me to have answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u101	Almost, I hear from Mr Verhoeven. There's been a question left. Mr Verhoeven, briefly. You also have a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u102	A second term for sure, but I've only asked two questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u103	But a lot of interruptions posted.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u104	On PNR, I have asked two questions that I have still not received an answer to: in no letter, in no previous debate, nor at this time of the Prime Minister in this round.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u105	What question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u106	I also received a motion today on the position of the House of Representatives with regard to information. A different position has gradually been taken in the process, but the Chamber has not been informed in advance. Why didn't that happen? Is the cabinet going to do better in other cases? This really is a change without informing the Chamber. Secondly, the key question I have just raised in my contribution is about the mandatory exchange of data by the national intelligence services as a crucial link in the package that has not been taken. Why did the Netherlands let that pass? This Prime Minister has the mouths of wanting to tackle crime, terrorism and so on. This is a crucial link in the package. He's not in there right now. The cabinet will not go beyond just saying: we will promote this in our Presidency. That's a really missed opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u107	I'm going to try to serve Mr Verhoeven. I would add that this is not on the agenda of the European Council. So this is a bit of a debate that is not just about the European Council but also about all other matters. But I can, and I'll try to answer wherever I can. A few times I referred to a colleague in Mrs Gesthuizen's question, but here I am going to try because I do have ammunition here. First of all, the information sharing. That is an important point, it is not mandatory. This means that Member States themselves have control over their data. It is quite clear that the success and added value of the PNR Directive is, of course, dependent on the sharing of information. We attach particular importance to this. It is therefore a question of careful consideration per request. The outcome is paramount, so that you come to a situation where you can ultimately obtain all available information as complete as possible. I can tell you that during the Dutch Presidency, the exchange of information by the Netherlands is a priority on the agenda for the elaboration of these PNR agreements, both in the informal and in the formal JHA Council and also through a high-level official seminar. So I cannot guarantee that it will succeed here yet, but I can say that the Netherlands and Mr Verhoeven are pulling on the same side of the rope here and trying to do everything about it. Another question is how the decision-making process has gone. I think you should note that an important point in all the discussions, including in the Chamber, was the guarantee of data protection. For this reason, we would also be reluctant in the various discussions. In the end, we were able to agree to the compromise texts on the PNR Directive because we believe that they contain sufficiently strong data protection safeguards. That was always an important point of the Chamber. We believe that is the case now. A debate has now taken place on this subject, and I believe that it will take place very soon, in which Ard van der Steur, the Minister for Security and Justice, has also explained this. I am now out of ammo on this point, so if Mr Verhoeven wants to know more, I will come back to it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u108	I shall come back in the second term myself to the way in which I think it is sensible. Now the Prime Minister is reading the letter again. Of course, I just read it right. Indeed: not mandatory, priority, so the Prime Minister sees the importance. But why did the Netherlands agree to a package which, on the one hand, goes very far, on intra-EU flights and so on, but on the other hand, it is a crucial link, namely the compulsory exchange? How far has the Netherlands gone to make sure that it did? I appreciate the Prime Minister's commitment to promoting, stimulating and prioritizing, as he has just said. But why did the Netherlands allow this to happen? Because in the eyes of D66, this is the crucial link in tackling terrorism.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u109	I have a hunch, and I think it's easy to explain, but I'm going to have a little more official advice on that point. The Netherlands said yes, while there is no explicit obligation on information sharing. The question is: why did the Netherlands agree? I will have a moment to find out exactly what that is about, and I will return to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u110	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Prime Minister for the answers to the many questions that have been asked. I welcome the Prime Minister's main line responses to the border guard. I do not think this is a good topic for discussion on the transfer of sovereignty; it is simply about monitoring the external borders. I couldn't agree more. The text I was referring to in relation to statements made by the Prime Minister was from the Europe Agency. That is a press agency that has simply written down that Prime Minister Rutte would have said to Jean Claude Juncker that this was a priority for the Dutch Presidency. I can hand it over to him in a moment, but there have really been statements from the press office. I just literally have them, but unfortunately I left them on my bench, so I don't have them here. But I can hand them over later. I'd like to get a response to that record from the press office. As far as Jordan and Lebanon are concerned, I am glad that it is always the cabinet's commitment. D66 has said many times, already in April of this year: make those countries partner countries now. That's being done now. Then I can be a bit acidic about the fact that at the time motions of D66 were tuned, but it is not in my character to add acid to that. I'm just naming it. I would like to have an answer to the outstanding question as to how it went with PNR and why the Netherlands agreed to it. D66 believes that it is a really wrong effort not to be fully and fully committed to data exchange. Let that really be said. I welcome the Prime Minister's response to Russia. That clarity is important, because otherwise you get something in the vein of: maybe a little bit of moving here and so a little bit of bargaining there. That's not happening right now. Thank you for that. Finally, on the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The debate fell a little short of a joke, but I would like to ensure that we do not get into the situation that we say in a few months' time: boy, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and European Affairs in this case, in fact, it is not at all strong on a number of points, which means that we are running out of opportunities. Then let us watch that together, because I think it is a serious concern. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u111	No motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u112	Excuse me. I'm putting my restrained motion on the border and coast guard to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u113	Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister has been quite agile about a number of major problems in the first term. I would like to thank him very much for all his answers. A lot of questions have indeed been asked. I would like to thank him very much for his commitment to direct my questions on the FMO and the climate projects submitted by developing countries to his colleague. I have two further comments to make on the situation in Turkey and the situation in Lebanon. I also have a third comment on the surveillance of external borders. But let me start with the latter. I do not agree with my colleague from D66, who says that this is not about a transfer of powers and that there is no question of sovereignty. I think that is the case. I regret that we have not yet been able to enter into that deeper debate with the Prime Minister, but hopefully that will come very soon. As far as I am concerned, it is something we should discuss as soon as possible in the House of Representatives, because it is a long-term step which could also apply to the Netherlands and other European countries. Then I come to the assurances that people in Turkey have. I have heard today that the guarantees that human rights are not being violated are not sufficient at the moment. What we have seen happen and what Amnesty has also recorded in a recent report is worrying. In any case, I am very concerned. The fact that the European Union is going to lean more on Turkey to take its responsibilities and stop refugees, keep them more in Turkey or even send them back does make my eyebrows frown. I'm not at all comfortable with it. Finally. The Prime Minister addressed me quite directly in his answer to a question I asked in the event of interruption. He wondered what solution I would have in mind for those 1.5 million people living in Lebanon. It doesn't really matter. I want to talk about realistic solutions. I cannot stand it if this Chamber always pretends that the solution to the European refugee problem lies with the countries in the region of Syria, when it is very clearly stated, even by a UN envoy, that the solution cannot be found there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u114	Mr. Chairman. The EU is not solving anything and is only making existing problems worse. The same applies to the current asylum crisis. Despite this, the Prime Minister continues to give away powers to the EU. Now he even threatens to give away control over our own borders. We can't let that happen. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the EU is proposing to force all Member States to release the surveillance of their own national borders from the hands of a European Border Agency;]] [[considers that this is a serious violation of our country's sovereignty;]] [[calls on the government never to agree to proposals that can give the power to guard its own Dutch borders,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Fritsma and Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1067]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u115	Mr. Chairman. I am pleased that the Prime Minister has said that hotspots will be a priority for this cabinet in the next six months. It is important to catch people in a humane way. It is also good to know that civil society organisations are involved in the care of refugees in Turkey. I have a motion on the European Coast Guard. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, according to the proposal for a European Border and Coast Guard, the European Commission may decide to allow the European Agency to intervene in national border surveillance without the consent of a Member State;]] [[whereas this is in fact a matter of transferring sovereignty from Member States to the European Commission;]] [[Whereas there are also other means to put border surveillance in order, including the establishment of more stringent (internal) border controls or the possibility of excluding a Member State (temporary) from the Schengen Convention;]] [[calls on the Government to send to the Chamber within three weeks a BNC sheet on the migration package and all other proposals and not to take irreversible steps within the European Council when it comes to the transfer of powers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Voordewind, Mr Van 't Wout and Mr Gesthuizen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-21501-20-1068]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u116	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Prime Minister for his answers and, in particular, for his crystal clear explanation of the plans relating to resettlement. That can really be the case when all other matters have been settled with Turkey, such as the drying up of the flow of refugees and the withdrawal of people. We have talked a lot about the European Border Guard. Understandably, there has been a lot of discussion about whether the Commission can intervene anywhere. On the other hand, I would like to point out that the package consists of many other things that seem to be very much in agreement at the moment, while not so many years ago my group was told that you should not talk about Fortress Europe when she talked about that kind of thing. Anyway, that's the profit. I'm here to talk about the Brexit. We have had a bit of a similar debate in the State of the Union as I had with Mrs Maij on the issue of social security in the United Kingdom. I know the Prime Minister is working on it, but I really think this point is crucial. My assessment of the campaign and the referendum is that this could be one of the most important subjects for British citizens in terms of palpability. In itself, I understand the problems that the British are dealing with for themselves. Finally. We have had a nice debate at the State of Union. I said at the time that we should speed up the internal market and that if it is not fast enough with its 28's, we should see if we could be ahead of it in a somewhat smaller context. I would ask the Prime Minister to plant a seed for this in his informal contacts at this European Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u117	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for answering the many and various questions. This European summit will address many different issues. The Prime Minister has assured us that the labour mobility package will be there in the next six months and that the Dutch Government will give this priority during the Dutch Presidency. We are in favour of this, especially as it could be a gesture towards the British and eliminate some of their problems with the labour market and with mobility in the European labour market. The Prime Minister has indicated what contribution the Netherlands has made to the hotspots, for which I am grateful. I have also asked what other countries have contributed to this. I can imagine that the Prime Minister is not able to answer all this precisely, but I asked because we ask many other countries as well. The Prime Minister mentioned this in his piece on migration. Turkey must stick to the agreements, he literally said. I agree with him, but we must also keep our own commitments. That is why I would like to raise this point again and ask the Prime Minister to take it up in the context of his own presidency. We should not just ask others to do their part. As a European Member State, we must also play our part in ensuring that these hotspots will work soon and that we will not still have two or three of them in six months' time. All these different hotspots on the Greek islands and Italy must indeed function. This will also help to further fill in the European Border and Coast Guard. As Mr Van 't Wout said, it is a broad package. We do not know exactly what is in it and will handle it well in the Chamber. I hope that within three weeks we will receive a BNC sheet on this, as Mr Voordewind asked in his motion. I hope that the point of implementation decision will also be worked out, which was still a little uncomfortable for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u118	I give the floor to Mr Omtzigt, who is updating his motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u119	Mr. Chairman. It's true I'm updating my motion. That is a very annoying signal in itself. It is not just a signal that this Member of Parliament is sometimes somewhat late. It is also a signal that we are not seriously working on the plan when the documents arrive here at 5 p.m. and we need to find something at 7 p.m. on redistribution mechanisms with Jordan and with Turkey, with the difference that the first plan is a recommendation, the second one is still in the planning phase and the third one is a regulation for the people at home: that is binding European legislation, and we need to understand what those ten documents mean. I just blame myself for that, too. In this way we cannot deal with this very serious crisis. It is indeed the European Commission; the Prime Minister is right to say so. However, it is the reason why I asked in the first place whether those documents could be there a week before such a summit, so that we know what we are talking about. That's the least of it. I have some points. The human rights dialogue with Turkey is separate from the accession process, but not for the CDA. How can you see those two things separately? An official Commission document, Mr Juncker's letter to the Turkish Government on the deal, is still secret. Come on! We agree on Minsk's sanctions. Well, I'm about to make a motion on MH17. I'd like to have those questions answered, but after 500 days, I want that information. I haven't heard anything about the retirement union. Is it excluded with the capital market union? I didn't get an answer to the question about the Five Presidents' Report. The government, with Minister Dijsselbloem, distanced itself from President Dijsselbloem's plans. Have we understood the long-term plans in his plan or not? What happens to the outcome of the referendum in Ukraine? That is a technical question to which I would like a technical answer, and that can also be done in writing. Mr President, then I shall proceed with the two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that neither Russia nor Ukraine nor any other country has made primary radar data and satellite images of the shooting of the MH17 available to the OVV;]] [[noting that these images are likely to be the most direct evidence for determining both the cause and the blame of the crash;]] [[noting that all countries, both under ICAO rules and under the UN Security Council Resolution, were obliged to retain and make available all radar data to researchers, but that no one had the data (yet);]] [[calls on the Government to ask both countries at EU level to make available publicly available information on the attack and thereby to fulfil their international obligations;]] [[calls on the Government to return the result to the Dutch Parliament within two months,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that an admission scheme for refugees residing in Turkey is being discussed at European level;]] [[Whereas the status of these possible agreements and conditions regarding the redistribution between the European Member States of these refugees from Turkey and subsequently from Lebanon and Jordan is not clear;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Chamber of refugees, including the accompanying (financial) consequences, before agreeing to the Commission's plans on refugees,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1069]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Omtzigt and Mr Keijzer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-21501-20-1070]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u120	I'll fix the grammatical error, but this is what happens when we do it at this rate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u121	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u122	Mr. Chairman. I've got a few things left. I admit to Mrs Maij that we are involving what other countries are doing in the field of hotspots, in the next JHA progress report. I say to Mr Van 't Wout that, in our response to the AIV opinion, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and I will return to what we promised in the debate on the State of the Union on the issue of a leading group on the internal market. We are looking at this with great interest. With regard to the PNR directive, I say to Mr Verhoeven that it does not mean that it is non-binding. An incoming request shall consider what is being done with that information and whether that information is being shared. That must always be human work. This is no different from other data exchange tools. The main point is that the Directive does deal with the exchange of information between Member States and between Member States and Europol. The Directive specifies the manner in which data exchange takes place and the safeguards for data protection to be respected. Last Tuesday, in a letter to the First and Second Chambers, further information was given by Minister Van der Steur. There has also been talk of the capital market union with regard to the pension union. This pension union is not on the table here. The Commission is committed to developing standardised individual pension products that can be implemented across borders in the context of third pillar pensions. Unlike the second pillar, it contains, as is well known, pensions outside the employment relationship, such as life insurance. For the Netherlands, it is very important that the second pillar pensions do not become part of the discussion. With regard to the Five Presidents' Report, I can report that the Chamber has been able to read our cabinet juice on the various parts of the report. It was also given on behalf of the Minister for Finance and the President of the Eurogroup. There is therefore no light between the appreciation of the Minister of Finance and that of the rest of the cabinet. After all, it is a product to which all presidents have contributed. That doesn't mean they support all five parts equally. In such a case, of course, it is a compromise. That's inevitable. These were my answers to the various questions that have been asked. Then I'll come to the motions. The motion in part No. 1067 of Mr Fritsma and Mr Wilders, I would advise against referring to the debate. The operative part of the motion in part No. 1068 is policy support and I recommend it. I'd like to focus on the final consideration. There is in itself a statement of fact, namely that there are other means. If I may read it that way, then it is entirely agreeable, as long as it does not pre-order that it should be. We shall give that assessment in accordance with the operative part. However, I would like to prevent the statement of fact from being more than that. I see the different proposers nodding. I'm reassured. With that interpretation, I recommend the motion. Mr Verhoeven wishes to put his motion to the vote again. I would once again ask him to hold on to it and to await the opinion of the cabinet on the European Commission's proposal. I therefore refer to the previous motion on this point. Mr Omtzig's motion for a resolution 1070 calls on the government to inform the Chamber before agreement is reached on the Commission's plans for the distribution of refugees. Like Mr Voordewind's motion, Mr Van 't Wout and Mr Gesthuizen, whom I have just dealt with, I can recommend them. Because that's what we're gonna do. That's what we were going to do. As regards the motion in part No. 1069 by Mr Omtzigt, I refer to my answer, namely that the parliamentary questions will be dealt with very soon. I would advise against the motion for a resolution for the moment or recommend Mr Omtzigt to hold it until the parliamentary questions have been answered. As I said at the end of my first reply, that will be very soon. This is what I believe I have dealt with the motions for resolutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u123	I still have the quote. I had the piece of paper I have in front of me right now, just not with me. The article of the press office says the following. Dutch prime minister Mark Rutte has informed Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker that the new regulation will be one of the priorities of the Dutch Presidency of the Council of the EU in the first half of 2016. This is what Agence Europe writes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u124	That conversation was not communicated to the media. I have already responded to this in the first period. I have informed Mr Juncker that, of course, we are looking with great interest at all the Commission's proposals and that we will try to get them through all the Council formations in a decent manner, but that is a priority for the Dutch Presidency, migration and the fight against terrorism, and I repeat what I said in the first term. In tackling migration, we want to bring down the numbers of migrants. Another priority for the Netherlands is the market, both deep and fair. Both aspects are therefore important. Equal pay for equal work is therefore important, but we are also focusing on strengthening the various markets that are now operating suboptimally. I have also said that we realise that continuing membership of the United Kingdom will be an important issue. So I don't know where this came from, Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u125	Okay, that's clear. I might find out someday. So the Prime Minister generalizes it somewhat. When will the answer come from the cabinet? That's what I'm asking for to assess the deadline. I must be able to judge when I will finally, at some point, be able to put that motion to the vote. After all, this motion becomes a cliffhanger in this way. It's a tough motion. The chances of success increase over time. I actually want to present it at the time when it is most likely to be adopted, because I think this is really an important point, even because it has been said so many times.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u126	This therefore refers to the motion under which the names of Mr Voordewind, Mr Van 't Wout and Mrs Gesthuizen are listed. We're gonna do that as soon as possible, but I don't think it's gonna work for Christmas. I suspect this will be a long way to go at the beginning of January.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u127	I have another question about the motion on the MH17. Can the Prime Minister undertake to give a substantive assessment of the motion when the questions are answered and indicate to what extent matters are possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u128	Pf. I have prepared myself for matters from the European Council, not for questions about the MH17. So I just don't know. Let me say that I will hand this request by Mr Omtzigt myself, and then pass it on politically to the ministers who answer these questions, so that the motion will be involved in answering those questions. However, I cannot promise that these answers will meet what Mr Omtzig hopes for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u129	No, but I'm deliberately asking this question here. I hope, of course, that this can be carried out. However, I would also like to hear which points can or cannot be implemented. After 500 days of waiting, the time has come to apply pressure to get that radar data. It's all here. Those records should have been there a week after the shooting of the MH17.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u130	Good. I get it. However, I must remain guilty for a moment because I have not prepared for it. In any case, I will ensure that the motion is forwarded to the person who answers the question. That motion may then be involved in the answer to the questions. I cannot, however, promise that everything that is envisaged in the motion will also be included in the answer to the questions. I simply can't agree to that because I'm not ready right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u131	Will Mr Omtzigt, having heard this, hold the motion? We're going to vote on it tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u132	Yeah, I'm holding the motion right now. However, I sincerely hope that the answers will come this week.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u133	At the request of Mr Omtzigt, I propose his motion (21501-20, No. 1069). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-35.u134	The other motions tabled will be put to the vote tomorrow. I would like to thank the Prime Minister, his officials and the MPs.
