ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-2.u1	Mr. Chairman. If it's up to the right-wing guys in this Chamber, the humiliation of welfare recipients continues. This time, the fundamental right to assistance is being taken away from us by introducing so-called assistance in kind. While we are in the process of housing new Dutch people in containers and taking away an absolute minimum income, we also arrange this directly for all other Dutch people, says coalition party VVD. The Labour Party is terrified of this, we read in the media. Is the Secretary of State terrified, too? I can assure you that hundreds of thousands of Dutch people who are unlucky enough to have to call on the assistance because of their job losses are not only terrified but above all furious. Rough because they have been treated as criminals by the Rutte/Asscher cabinet in recent years. Frustrated because of the austerity fetishism they have to pay household care fines. Undressed, broke and with debts because the benefits have been reduced further and further. People are affected in their human dignity because the coalition parties punish VVD and PvdA unemployed instead of unemployment. The Secretary of State must now set a clear limit. Do not treat welfare recipients as second-class citizens. Can the Secretary of State promise us today that the plan for assistance in kind will not be forthcoming, not for old and not for new Dutch?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Karabulut's question is whether all welfare recipients in the Netherlands are treated equally and how in the Netherlands we deal with assistance in kind. The answer to this is that for all welfare recipients in our country the standard amount of assistance is simply at issue and that municipalities are currently able to provide assistance in kind, for example in the form of health insurance policies. So this can in principle also be done for all welfare recipients in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-2.u3	It is true that collective health insurance can already be taken out at the moment. It is true that in consultation with welfare recipients the rent can be transferred to the housing corporation. However, here is a plan for assistance in kind in general beyond the current possibilities for all recipients of assistance, i.e. both the new Dutch and the current Dutch. Can the Secretary of State say here: we're not gonna do that, we're gonna take this plan back? Is there a plan, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-2.u4	Let me be very clear: I do not intend to change the law on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-2.u5	So to make it perfectly clear: there is no plan and there is no agreement to work out assistance in kind? So the Chamber doesn't get a separate plan either, and what happens is happening within the existing legal possibilities?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-2.u6	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-2.u7	Can the Secretary of State send those alternatives to the Chamber directly this week within the existing possibilities? Unless the Secretary of State says the following today. This is just what it is within the existing possibilities and I do leave it to municipalities to arrange housing. When people have a residence status, they are entitled to welfare benefits, just like everyone else. When it is provided in kind, for example through a collective health insurance scheme, that is something that the municipalities regulate. I don't have a role in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-2.u8	We have an orderly Act of Participation, which we have often discussed with the Chamber. Within the contours of the Participation Act, municipalities can also provide services in kind. I think it's very wise to just go on like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-2.u9	The Minister for Social Affairs has therefore, as he is quoted, spoken in turn of making a separate deal on assistance in kind. There will be no separate proposal for assistance in kind. It's all within the existing legal possibilities. So the whole plan of the VVD has been all for the stage, especially to make the spirits ripe for the taking away of even more rights of welfare recipients. I assume that today the Secretary of State is telling the truth that there will be no assistance in kind, not for all Dutch and not for new Dutch.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-2.u10	I think it is wise to stress that I have just said that assistance in kind is already on the agenda under the Participation Act, so there is no need to amend the law on that point at all. In that sense, there is really nothing new under the sun.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-2.u11	It is indeed possible to grant assistance in kind in individual cases under the current law. However, there was evidence that assistance in kind might be granted generically, for example only to status holders. That also seems to me to be contrary to the law. Before we discuss this: should there still be plans for assistance in kind, is the Secretary of State prepared to submit these plans to the Human Rights College so that we can ask him for a human rights test?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-2.u12	This is a like-dan question. As I said, it is already a matter of providing assistance in kind, even in the case of health insurance policies. So that's broad for the people involved. There is really nothing new about this. Of course, in these special circumstances surrounding refugees, assistance in kind is now being looked at further. This is not, however, such that the Participation Act should be amended.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-2.u13	The assistance is the last and lowest safety net we have for people in the Netherlands. The Labour Party attaches great importance to this. It's not fat. Yesterday I heard the reaction of the Minister for Social Affairs to the suggestion that the cabinet, whether secretly or not, would intend to reduce the welfare allowance. His reaction to that was that it's completely bullshit. Does the Secretary of State say the same thing?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-2.u14	The standard amount in the assistance is based on the minimum amount to support your livelihood. This applies to anyone who has a status in the Netherlands. That's as clear as glass.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-2.u15	Can we then see that the VVD has simply launched a test balloon when it comes to assistance in kind and that it is not going to be there as far as this Secretary of State is concerned?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-2.u16	I have just said, in response to a question from Mrs Karabulut, that assistance in kind is already possible. In fact, when I was a council member in the city of The Hague, I made an initiative proposal to provide the health insurance policy we bought from a large health insurance company in kind to welfare recipients. So there is no question of a test balloon, because the situation is already that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-2.u17	Mrs Voortman, this will be your second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-2.u18	The difference is that the Secretary of State in The Hague was able to grant assistance in kind in individual cases. So you couldn't say that you gave in-kind assistance to whole groups. It seems that there are now plans to provide assistance in kind purely on the basis of status. That would be contrary to the law. If the Secretary of State says it's not against the law, is she prepared to submit the plans to the Human Rights College? It is a very simple request: to submit to the Human Rights College, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-2.u19	I do not think this is appropriate, because this kind of situation is already possible under the current Participation Act. Of course, it is always the case that if an individual does not agree with a municipality on a separate provision, it may object or appeal. So nothing changes in that respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-2.u20	Thank you for your answers and for coming to the Chamber.
