ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-47.u1	Finally, tonight is our last part of the programme. There are three speakers on the side of the Chamber. The first is Mrs Visser from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. The floor is up to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-47.u2	Mr. Chairman. This is about the BCT, the Boordcomputer Taxi. Every taxi driver you talk to on the street, the reviews won't be very positive. We've been talking about it for a long time. It's been introduced recently. However, in the written consultation, there have been some points on which we would like to table a motion because we think it is important that there should be rapid clarification for taxi operators about the use of an on-board computer. To this end, I shall table the next motion, including on behalf of Mr Hoogland of the PvdA Group. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Board Computer Taxi (BCT) was introduced as of 1 July 2014, but can only be maintained as of July 2016 by the Inspection Environment and Transport and that there are few BCT suppliers left due to several bankruptcies;]] [[whereas taxi operators still have to keep a double record and there is uncertainty about requirements, updates, enforcement and additional costs;]] [[Whereas other applications are now available to achieve the objectives of the BCT, such as improving supervision, reducing administrative burdens and improving customer transparency;]] [[noting that the evaluation of the BCT is only started in mid-2016 and that no clear deadline has been agreed;]] [[considers that it is not desirable for taxi operators to be chased at a cost by the uncertainty surrounding the BCT;]] [[calls on the Government not to impose new requirements on taxi operators with regard to the BCT until there is clarity on the requirements, updates, enforcement and additional costs, to start the assessment of the BCT if possible before mid-2016 and to complete it as soon as possible, and to inform the Chamber of Change of Planning,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Visser and Mr Hoogland. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31521-92]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-47.u3	Mr Hoogland of the PvdA Group waived his speaking time. Then I'm looking for Mr. Helvert. He is the last speaker on the side of the Chamber. A member of staff whispered to us that he was quitting his speaking time. I assume he's under oath.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-47.u4	Maybe I can have the motions first?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-47.u5	You don't need any motions, do you? It's just a routine thing, isn't it? Look, I'm fine. Stand up slowly, and the motion will come your way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-47.u6	Mr. Chairman. I understand the urgency of Mrs Visser from the VVD Group. I have that urgency, too. There is no reason at present to impose new requirements. All BCTs must comply with the modified requirements by 1 July 2016. Therefore, enforcement is possible even after 1 July 2016. Starting an evaluation earlier means starting to evaluate something that isn't there. It is not wise to work in that hurry and it is strange to evaluate what has not yet started. I am prepared to review the evaluation within one year, so before 1 July 2017. As far as I am concerned, the results of the evaluation must be solid. If I start the evaluation too early, I do not have a full evaluation, nor can I make any decisions as a result of that evaluation. This is a long-running trajectory. I think that at least this will require careful evaluation. Because of the way this is formulated right now, I tend to discourage the motion to avoid having to start an evaluation before I have anything to evaluate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-47.u7	The tendency to dissuade her?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-47.u8	I saw Mrs Visser get up. Then I thought there might be another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-47.u9	Well, well, well. Mrs Visser, you still have a chance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-47.u10	I tend to ask the Secretary of State a question. I think the BCT is a sour apple that everyone has to bite through. He's now implemented. In most of the taxis he is also present. For the VVD Group, it is important that it now seems as if we do not think about other options until 1 July 2016, about new possibilities and also not consider whether some of the BCT principles could be implemented in a different way. The appeal to the Secretary of State is to speed up where necessary, to stop thinking and to relieve the burden on entrepreneurs. The call is for us to speed up where we can and if possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-47.u11	The BCT already has a number of advantages. It is already more reliable for riding administrations and for tax returns. He is less prone to fraud and leads to less administrative burdens. I find this complicated, because if a subject has already had a long lead time and I agree on an evaluation, then there must be something to evaluate. If a decision is taken afterwards, it must be made on the basis of an evaluation. Mrs Visser is now asking: is there any consideration of other issues? I don't think that's part of the evaluation. I maintain that I think it is important that a proper evaluation of the on-board computer can be carried out specifically. If we do a half-evaluation too soon or one that is not full, then it is not going well. What I would like to say to Mrs Visser is that I will start an evaluation as soon as possible and I will do everything I can to complete it before 1 January 2017. But I think it is important that it is a full evaluation so that I can make decisions. If, as a result of an evaluation which has not been carried out, I come to a situation in which the decision is not well-founded, I find that complicated. I don't think that's good governance either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-47.u12	I have another follow-up question. The Secretary of State has sent a letter to the Chamber on the assessment of taxi legislation. It has also established a link with the BCT, as well as another evaluation that still needs to be carried out on the maximum rates. We should not wait for the implementation and development of this taxi letter, including the new possibilities that it offers, and not say that we are waiting for the evaluation of the BCT first. It can only start in mid-2016, so before we change anything, we are talking about 2018. That would mean that we would sit on our hands. That can't be the intention. I think I can interpret the words of the Secretary of State in this way, but I would like to confirm to the Secretary of State that she is going to speed things up and bring them forward where she sees opportunities and that she interprets the motion as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-47.u13	Yeah, that's how I interpret her. That's the way I want it to be with the Chamber. I would like to let the Chamber know what steps I am taking, but I have also indicated where the lower limit lies for me. The Court is not going to accept a decision from me on the basis of incomplete information, and I do not want to take a decision on the basis of incorrect information. So if there's an acceleration possible, I'll do my very best and let the Chamber know. If I have any clarity as to how the trial is going, I'll let the Chamber know as well. Then we can talk about it, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-47.u14	Fine. Then the question is, do you admit to your tendency tonight to dissuade her?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-47.u15	Yeah, I'm gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-47.u16	You're giving in to your propensity. Okay. Then it's noted. Otherwise it will remain a little above the market.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-47.u17	I can imagine the House holding the motion because there will be more clarity about the pace in the coming months. Otherwise, I'm gonna dissuade the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-47.u18	I do not see Mrs Visser coming to the microphone, so I note that she is not doing so for the time being.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-47.u19	We shall vote on one motion tomorrow. Thank you very much to the Secretary of State for her presence.
