ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u1	Mr. Chairman. A well-functioning military intelligence service is necessary for a safe Netherlands. There's no question about that. The question before us today is whether military intelligence is working properly. For example, two weeks ago, the STUD came to the news with buying off, or rather paying off, two former employees. Of course, that's not a matter of being proud of as intelligence. In the meantime, I have also asked written questions about this. A few days ago, the Volkskrant headlined that lawyers are worried. The STIVD intends to use special powers against lawyers if necessary to gain sight of a target. Is this new? Not quite, because the AIVD was already in the news negative because a law firm was bugged. The law firm's complaint was partially justified by the supervisory authority in the intelligence and security services. That is why today I want a very clear answer from the Minister to the following questions. Why is it necessary for the STUDY to do so or to do so? How often has these special powers been used? What exactly does it mean? What are the exact criteria under which this may take place? How does this relate to the confidentiality of lawyers? Isn't it being violated?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. I myself was a little surprised about the media reports about this, also because it is nothing new. It is already being done, and it is already practice. On 18 December 2014, an extensive letter was also sent to the Chamber, signed by the Minister of the Interior, but also on my behalf. That letter clearly sets out the criteria under which the exercise of this special competence should take place. We are, of course, talking about a special group, the so-called replacement beneficiaries. That means you have to be extremely reluctant. Those are the services. But I can't rule out anything in the context of state security. This is also permitted by law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u3	The key point, of course, is how far an intelligence service can and can go. That is not a frivolous question, it is a very difficult one, because it is at the heart of our rule of law. I understand that, the President understands that, and the Minister understands that. That is why I have a few more questions for the Minister. It refers, of course, to the law and indicates that there is particular restraint. There are still a number of questions to be answered. Can the Minister inform the Chamber of how these special powers relate to the obligation of professional secrecy of lawyers? Can the Minister guarantee that this will be handled with restraint? I would like to add another question. Is the Minister prepared to submit a request from the STUDY for the use of these special powers to an independent judge so that he can check whether the use of those powers is permissible or not? That is something the Dutch barristers have also indicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u4	I do not see any need to introduce a judicial test for the tapping of lawyers, because the communication between lawyers and clients is already subject to additional protection. I just made it clear that the service is extremely reluctant to deal with this. This is a special group, the group of those entitled to change. There are particular criteria under which this may take place. I cannot state in public how many times this has happened. Unfortunately, I'm gonna say right away. This has to do with giving as little insight as possible into the working methods of the services. I thought the letter of 18 December 2014 also went to the Chamber. If that is not the case, I will send it to the Chamber. In fact, it amounts to the answer to Mr Van Dijk's question from the SP, on 5 March 2015. Everything has been explained, but I am happy to put that back on paper. I will take into account exactly how this relates to the obligation of professional secrecy of lawyers, because I do not have that very clear at the moment, other than that there is a special way of dealing with the group of right-holders, which is very reluctant to act on it. One can be sure that the STUDY, as well as the AIVD, is extremely cautious.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u5	The STUDY must, of course, be able to do its job, within the framework and with due restraint, and we agree on this. At the heart of the matter is that the Minister, even though she cannot share facts about the intelligence services in public, can inform the Chamber. The Minister refers to a letter, but it does not reflect all the points I raised during this Question Time. I ask the Minister to enter into the letter she is going to send to the Chamber, if necessary in a confidential manner, on how often these special powers are used. It is important for us as a policy to know how far an intelligence service can and can go and how reluctant it is with these particular powers. Can the Minister also comment on the relationship with confidentiality in that letter? I understand the Minister doesn't have that ready right now. Can she come back to that in the letter? I would also ask the Minister if she is prepared to contact the Dutch barristers. Can she give a feedback in the letter she sends to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u6	To begin with, the Dutch order of lawyers has said in the media that he would like to have an exchange of views with me and with the Minister for Foreign Affairs. He's welcome, but he's mature enough to get on the line with me. I'm happy to have that conversation, as the gentlemen and ladies know only too well. When it comes to how often this method is used, I will not share it with the Chamber. If I already share that, it is through the appropriate channels. Let us not forget that we have a supervisory committee that closely monitors this. The letter of 18 December made a detailed reference to this. It also refers to the reports prepared by the CTIVD earlier. I ask you to include that in judgment. As I said, I would be happy to send the letter of 18 December again, with a sentence on confidentiality.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u7	Thank you for this commitment. I look forward to the letter with interest. I said in my introduction that the Commission for the Supervision of the Intelligence and Security Services certainly has a role to play in the use of the tools by the STUDY. At the same time, I indicated that the example of the law firm that was bugged by the AIVD showed that there are insufficient safeguards when listening to telephone calls and e-mail traffic between clients and lawyers; these are the words of the CTIVD. Thank you for the Minister's commitment, but I would like to explain why it is important to go into depth and talk about this further.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u8	The good news about the work of the CTIVD is that it is always taken seriously. If there are recommendations, they will be taken on board wherever possible. If they cannot be taken over, they will also be shared with the CTIVD and thus the Chamber has been informed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-3.u9	I thank the Minister for coming to the Chamber and answering the questions.
