ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment to the Upper House.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. On 24 June last year we discussed the amendment of the Work and Assistance Act and the introduction of the Participation Act. In this discussion, we welcomed the commitment in the 2013 social agreement to create 125,000 additional jobs for the target group we are talking about today. In that debate we also argued that the parties which played a major role in building our welfare state also have a great responsibility to take the necessary measures if the system needs to be adapted. An important change in policy is that we are now starting from what people can do instead of what people can't do. After an interrupting debate with the chairman of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, we agreed not to talk about the so-called bottom of the labour market, but about the most vulnerable groups in society and specifically in the labour market. I'd like to use this term today, too. This morning we are discussing a legislative proposal aimed at strengthening the position of people with disabilities, a vulnerable group in the labour market. To achieve this, many possibilities have already been created and/or proposed. During the Rutte I cabinet, it was proposed to reduce the minimum wage under certain conditions. A system of wage costs subsidies has been introduced in the Participation Act. The Rutte II government agreement proposes to help this group by obliging employers to employ a certain number of members of the target group. If that is not possible, a levy must be paid. In the social agreement of 2013, employers and employees agreed to create 125,000 additional jobs for the target group. If that does not work, the quota levy will come back around the corner. The present bill seeks to regulate both these latter thoughts in one law. Has the government considered the inclusion of both elements in separate legislative proposals, taking into account that the idea of a tax is not going to play until 2017? The CDA sees this bill as a supplement to the Participation Act and a fulfillment of the agreements in the Social Agreement. We very much welcome the agreement in the social agreement to create 100,000 jobs in the market sector and 25,000 in the collective sector. Of course, it is necessary to follow up on this agreement to assess the current state of play. I believe that the zero measurement is based on the situation in 2013. This shows that around 33,000 members of the target group now have permanent jobs in the market sector and just over 4,000 in the collective sector. The figures for contracted workers are almost 27,000 for the market sector and 8,500 for the collective sector respectively. My rough interpretation is that the market sector is doing a little bit better than the collective sector, both in terms of numbers and in relation to permanent employment versus borrowed. Does the Secretary of State see an additional task for the Minister for the National Service? The database at the UWV is crucial in monitoring the progress. On the basis of the information obtained so far, we assume that this database will be ready in time and will not create additional burdens for business. Can the Secretary of State confirm that our impression is correct? In the Lower House, the target group has been expanded to include a group of young people who have experienced medical problems for their eighteenth years, which means that these young people cannot earn the minimum wage without benefits. This extension does not apply to the employment agreement, but to the quota scheme. Can the Secretary of State explain again why this is not a problem? The quota scheme will apply if the job agreement is not implemented. This group is not covered by the job agreement, but by the quota scheme. The Secretary of State has already answered this question from me, but after reading the answer I was not convinced. Can she explain again why it is not a problem if you do not include a group in the job agreement but in the quota scheme? The CDA agrees that the target group is not automatically extended to all pupils in special education, as advocated by the Christian Union in the Lower House. We have enough stamps in our country. We do not think that an automatic renewal of a once received stamp is desirable. Here too, we advocate customization. The government agreement of the Rutte II cabinet proposes to oblige employers to employ a certain proportion of the target group. Similar proposals have also been made in the past for immigrants in the Act promoting proportional participation of immigrants in the labour market. Again, there is a discussion going on to do something like this for women in business, especially at the top. So far, as a CDA, we have not been in favour of such quota arrangements. The public authorities must tackle discrimination in the labour market strictly and the groups concerned must seize every opportunity to improve their position. Following recent figures on the difference in employment rates between immigrants and natives, we agree with Minister Asscher that much more needs to be done in this area. After Sweden, we score the worst in Europe. It seems to us that consultation with the Labour Foundation is highly desirable on this point. Now back to the bill before us. We have noticed that in the extensive debates in the House of Representatives relatively little attention has been paid to the agreements in the social agreement and relatively much to the quota regime and quota levy; parts of the law which we hope will not have to be applied. During the debate in the House of Representatives, the CDA proposed replacing the proposed tax in the event that the agreement was not reached in the social agreement with a reward from those entrepreneurs who did reach the agreement; a kind of bonus scheme instead of the malus scheme provided for in the law. In the debate, the Secretary of State found this a sympathetic idea but no alternative to the levy at the moment. Are the State Secretary's objections of a financial or technical nature? The answer to our questions in the report shows that six countries in the European Union have a kind of quota regime: Ireland and Belgium only for the collective sector, and Germany, Austria, Italy and Spain for all employers. Of these countries only Germany and Austria monitor compliance with the agreements. For Germany, for 2010, almost 23% of all employers with more than 20 employees comply with the rules. Almost 27% do not employ any disabled persons, while the others partially comply with the standard. Despite our objections to quota schemes in general and the not too positive experience abroad, we have decided to make an exception for the target group in question. We are very keen that the objectives of the social agreement be achieved, so that more and more people with disabilities can proudly say that they work at Albert Heijn or at another well-known company in their village. And maybe a stick behind the door will help a little. At the same time, the employers themselves agreed as part of the social agreement, perhaps as a result of a kind of Seelen massage by the government. Finally, this is a target group that could use a little support. We welcome the possibility that jobs created by entrepreneurs in others through direct funding can also count in determining whether they have done enough, so that they do not have to pay a levy. We consider this to be very important for SMEs and specialised companies. The investigation into the question in the motion Heerma whether the taking of services in companies can also count, we wait faithfully and with interest. This interest also applies to the replies of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-3.u3	Mr. Chairman. The SP Group has long been looking forward to the time when we could introduce a legislative proposal for a quota regime for labour restrictions, with a possibility of sanctions against employers. The SP should therefore celebrate the proposal for a Jobs Agreement Act and quota for labour restrictions. Indeed, since its entry into the Binnenhof, the SP has been advocating such a quota regime, although at the time we were all alone in wanting to impose a penalty on employers who did not cooperate, as in Germany. As we saw the increase in support for that principle, three years ago an initiative legislative proposal with such a quota scheme was launched by our House of Representatives. Although such a system should be the final element of inclusive labour market policies, the principle of a quota system with sanctioning power certainly has our support. In assessing the legislative proposal, of course, it concerns the elaboration and context of current policies, practices and changes in them. In particular, the SP has problems with the contextual changes associated with this bill, even though we also have questions and doubts about the drafting of this bill. The legislative proposal is an elaboration of an agreement that was part of the social agreement with employers and employees in 2013. Because of the fine agreements that the agreement certainly contained, that agreement had in principle provided the SP's support, even with an offer to the government to help in its elaboration and realization. In the meantime, we know that history is what the government chose for the elaboration of a coalition with D66, the Christian Union and the SGP and, above all, against the agreement with employers and employees in the EU, continued with economically damaging austerity policies. As a result, according to the social partners and the SP Group, the employment agreements under this law have become much more uncertain and many jobs have been destroyed directly and indirectly by austerity policies. Because of the good agreements that also existed for workers in the social agreement, after the indecent and unilateral adjustment, the trade unions did not immediately pull the plug on that agreement, but it should be clear that this effect was not the effect the SP intended. We therefore consider the proposal not as part of that overall package, but as always on its own merits and support it if it is, on balance, positive according to our standards. The pain for the SP but, much more importantly, also for all people with disabilities was and is mainly in the Participation Act, as the Work Act has been baptized by this Cabinet as well. This Property Works Act was also rightly contested by the party of the Secretary of State, side by side with the SP, during the previous cabinet period, because according to the PvdA the Work Act did not work according to property, the law was based on quicksand and the law did not offer any vision of a job for labour restrictions. The plans to close the social work facilities were not reversed, as promised before the elections, but were somewhat softened by closing the social work facilities only for new cases and thus making a death home. Under the current government, the SP has therefore continued its opposition to the Participation Act. I will not repeat the debate we had just before the summer, but as a Participatory Act, the Act has now reached the final stage, with the support of the PvdA, and the law has now been introduced. The present legislative proposal is an elaboration of the quota scheme announced in the government agreement to help ensure that disabled people are able to work with regular employers rather than in a SW company. The coalition agreement writes: "We ensure that no one falls between shore and ship. As the number of places in the social employment service declines, the number of regular places for disabled people increases. The quota scheme shall be phased in in six years from 1 January 2015.' The first disappointing thing about the present legislative proposal is that both the starting date and the deadline have not been met. The quota regime is now being proposed as a stick behind the door, in support of agreements between employers, trade unions and government on the creation of 125,000 jobs for people who cannot earn the statutory minimum wage on their own over a period of more than ten years. My group's doubts lie in the ambition and feasibility of these agreements, the effectiveness of this legislative proposal to strengthen these agreements, the definition of the target group and the risk of displacement by the legislative proposal of people who, for whatever reason, are just outside the target group. If you know that there are 1.5 million people with disabilities, of whom about 1 million are currently unable to participate in a paid job, a 125,000 job deal with regular employers, including the government, over 10 years from now, is very thin. Whether or not that number will be met and at a rate that can keep up with the loss of jobs in SW companies as a result of the Participation Act, given the continuing crisis, high unemployment and many more job losses that have already been made, is highly questionable. In any case, the first signals are not yet very encouraging. According to an analysis of nearly 110,000 vacancies in January, only 20 were targeted at the target group of the Participation Act. At this rate, it takes more than 500 years for us to fill 125,000 jobs, provided that all vacancies match and everyone also lasts 500 years in the job offered. In 1947 the Posting of Disabled Workers Act was introduced. That law already contained a quota provision. For Mr Terpstra of the CDA, I note that in general the CDA may not be in favour of quota provisions, but I cannot escape the impression that at least parts of the CDA were involved in this law. But because the law did not sanction non-compliance with the quota, the law did not succeed. This is why, as early as 1950, the Municipal Social Employment Services were introduced, followed by the Social Employment Services Act (WSW) in 1969. The WPMV's optional, non-penalty quota scheme, as it was referred to as abbreviated, was transferred to the WAGW in 1986, and to the REA Act in 1998, which was finally abolished with the introduction of the WIA. So we have known for a long time that quota arrangements do not work without sanctions. Nevertheless, without knowing whether it will work with a sanctioning instrument, lock the WSW for new influx and thus give up a proven means for an experiment, the SP considers very unwise. It is only when the end of next year it appears that the employment agreement is not on schedule that the sanction may be introduced in consultation with employers and employees. And if the employer chooses to accept the sanction instead of adjusting the behavior, nothing will happen. The employer will then pay a modest fine and the job seeker will still be at home with reduced working hours. The fact that the level of the sanction is not variable and cannot be easily adjusted makes it difficult to control it. The SP Group does not seem very deterring to many employers, €5,000, especially because it concerns large employers. The law does not apply to small employers. In this connection, the SP spokesperson in the Lower House spoke of "a lollipop stick behind the door." Why did the government even include a lump sum in the bill? Does this mean that implementation of the operative part of the Van Ojik/Christmas motion can only be achieved by amending the law? Does the government intend to propose a legislative amendment every year to correct the amount of the fine for inflation? Does the Secretary of State also see that fixing the amount of the fine may be somewhat awkward to send if the fine is intended to be instrumental in influencing behaviour? The bill focuses on larger employers, at least employers with more than 25 employees. However, even smaller companies can employ workers with disabilities and it would be good to also make active policies to encourage these smaller employers to hire people from the target group register and to point out to them all the possible provisions that exist in relation to this group. Surely the Secretary of State agrees with me? Without stick, so experience has taught us, not every employer will be able to convince. But wouldn't we at least try to seduce the smaller employer? Finally, my group has doubts about the definition of the target group and the possible displacement of people who are outside the target group, by people who are just coming in. In the case of a different demarcation, the border effects take place in another place. The Council of State already points out the possible displacement of workers with WIA benefits. The government wants to monitor this, but what can and will it do if monitoring shows that this displacement is taking place? And does the government agree with the risk that, above all, the cost of a necessary provision will create a major disadvantage in the competition for a limited number of jobs? The government wants to make priority of the difficult target group of the Participation Act, the Wajong and the Wsw who are unable to earn the statutory minimum wage on their own. The Lower House has already expanded the target group a bit, namely to people under 18 who need a provision to earn the minimum wage independently. That seems to the SP Group to be positive. But why do not all persons with structural functional disabilities belong to the target group of the Participation Act? And why are the necessary provisions for participation in the labour market not, in fact, a guaranteed right? Does the Secretary of State intend to evaluate this law, if it is introduced, after a year or two on the basis of the impact on employers' behaviour, possible displacement effects and other barriers to entry into employment? If so, is the Secretary of State prepared to review the amount of fines, target group and supporting instruments?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-3.u4	In discussions on promoting the labour market participation of a particular group, displacement is always an important argument for the SP. But does the problem of repression not apply to all measures, including those for which the SP itself is in favour? If you immediately introduce a quota levy, with very high amounts, I think you will also get displacement. I therefore believe that repression always plays a role. Why does the SP always use the argument of repression against the idea of taking a measure, as such, while playing everywhere?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-3.u5	If Mr Terpstra has listened carefully, he has heard that I myself made that remark. I said that if you put the target group's boundary somewhere else, there will also be displacement elsewhere. If the target group is defined strictly, the supply of jobs is limited and the number of people who have to compete for them is greater, there will always be a border effect somewhere. That is why I have also asked questions about how we assess and monitor the target group of this law. Are there any other means needed to remove barriers? Think of the right to provide services that allow entry into the labour market.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-3.u6	I was just alarmed by the quote of Mr Elzinga's colleague from the House of Representatives. I also read the Acts and I thought there would be more quotes. However, the tone of your speech, Mr Elzinga, is different; fortunately. The Participation Act is a fact. He exists. There are displacement problems. We're all aware of that. The essence of the debate is actually: isn't the better the enemy of good? Could the SP Group at least make the right proposals a good starting point? That's my first question. I'd like to add a second. Mr Elzinga is a little closer to the trade union movement and I can imagine that the proposal is moving ahead of the collective bargaining process. What's his vision on this? Does this have a positive effect? Have any results been achieved? If so, could that not be an additional plea for a more positive approach?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-3.u7	Let me begin with the first question: unfortunately, thanks to this coalition and the support of Mr Backer's group, the Act of Participation is indeed a fact. In the whole of the Participation Act and the Quotum Act, there was the greatest pain for our party. A quota system, which we have been advocating for many years, I have already said that it should be the end of an inclusive labour market policy and not a shambles for austerity measures with serious discriminatory effects. However, you have heard very well that we do not reject the principle of quota regulation. We recognize some good things in that. We're talking about the effect. We still have some doubts about that. We still cannot bear in mind that the coalition, with such broad support, has been given the bill on the Participation Act at the expense of the target group by both Chambers. Apart from the debate in principle, the questions and doubts in both debates were mainly about the elaboration. Depending on the outcome of this debate, we in the group will consider our position. Of course, we cannot do that before the debate. With regard to the second question, the quota system is an instrument, a stick behind the door in case it is introduced. The trade union movement, like the employers' umbrella, is included because the instrument will only be introduced after consultation with the social partners. Firstly, it is about implementing the agreements between the social partners on the creation of 125 000 jobs. The unions were at the table. They are also at the table elsewhere, with the ESC and in collective bargaining with employers. They'll keep this appointment in mind. I assume they will ask questions regularly and will certainly appeal to the employers, the bigger ones, on their responsibility to honour the tripartite agreements made. I had come to the end of my speech. For the time being, the SP Group still has a lot of doubts, as the interruptions have shown, and certainly looks forward to the answers of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-3.u8	Mr. Chairman. The Quota Act that we are discussing today is, of course, closely linked to the Participation Act, as previous speakers have said. This law is accompanied by a huge cut of EUR 1.8 billion. The aim is that people with disabilities rather than with the social employment services should continue to work only for those who are already working on the regular labour market. That's the goal. It would be great in itself if many more people would find a place in the regular labour market. The cabinet estimates that at least I read that in 2026 about 250,000 people with disabilities will be looking for a place on the labour market. The employment agreement between the social partners and the government should create 125 000 jobs for these people in 2026. Of course, that's far too little. Mr Elzinga mentioned even higher numbers of people out of work. The objective is relatively low. The cabinet has said it needs a stick behind the door for this. This is the quota law that can be activated if employers fail to comply with their obligations; a levy will be imposed. The members of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance naturally support the aim of getting many more people with disabilities to work in the regular labour market. Everyone must be able to participate fully in society, and labour is an important means of doing so. But we have serious objections to the way in which the cabinet intends to regulate this whole thing. The government's starting point is that there are sufficient jobs for this group in the regular labour market. We have very serious doubts about this. We see the number of jobs for, for example, in the broad sense, the low-skilled are falling further. In doing so, the government is making a big deal of money by acting as the biggest job destroyer at the moment. For example, tens of thousands of jobs for lower-skilled home care workers are disappearing. All kinds of jobs 'in the luwe', as we know them in the past, are no longer available. They've been cut off, automated or gone to call centers. So this also says a lot about the opportunities for people with disabilities and especially for those with lower levels of education. Everyone will have to fish in the same pond when they're looking for a job, but that pond won't get bigger, it'll even get smaller. That's what bothers us. Can the Secretary of State explain how this can work, especially now that a cut of 1.8 billion is being thrown over it? I could even ask whether the cabinet believes that this will work. Is that why this quota bill should be introduced? By the way, it is interesting and important to think about such an instrument. I'm gonna take it a little bit wider. At the moment 625,000 people are in the WW and assistance; they all have a job interview obligation. This figure remains so high until far in 2017, despite the more favourable economic outlook. There will be vacancies, but these are replacement vacancies and no additional vacancies. In short, there are far too few jobs for a huge group of job seekers. Then there are four groups that are very difficult: the people with disabilities we are talking about today, those with lower education, the elderly and those with an ethnic background. This weekend it turned out that this last group is having a harder time finding work in the Netherlands than in other European countries. This could indicate that there is something fundamentally wrong with the labour market in the Netherlands. Apparently, we exclude people instead of giving them opportunities and locking them in. I'd like to get a response from the Secretary of State. How does it see this problem that there is apparently too little structural work and groups of people are structurally excluded? What does the Cabinet do about this? That is the basis on which we can increase the opportunities for people with disabilities. So far, it hasn't worked out. Many of them sit at home wanting to work. Of the Wajangers, only 25% have jobs. In addition, the number of jobs for people with disabilities has decreased rather than increased. In this light, the employment agreement is important, but it does not provide enough jobs. Eventually, these 125,000 jobs will not be realized until 2026. Originally, 170,000 jobs would have been created by 2020; this is the original percentage of 5 in the coalition agreement. That objective has therefore been watered down considerably. The Secretary of State said earlier that without quota there would be no cuts in the social workshops. But see: in anticipation of the creation of these additional jobs for this group, social work provision is already closed down for new influxes and this huge saving of 1.8 billion is introduced with the Participation Act. Of this, 850 million must be cut in the social security system. It is well known that GroenLinks voted against the Participation Act for this reason, because it considers that that law does not deserve that name at all. Today we are talking about the quota law. I have noticed that the explanatory statement states that if the additional jobs are not achieved in any year, the quota levy can be activated after consultation with the social partners and municipalities. So it's possible, but is it sure it's gonna happen? I am very keen that the Secretary of State confirms that this is going to happen in any case. It is important to ensure that dialogue between the social partners and local authorities does not lead to an additional number of years being taken and it is being tried again without the levy being introduced. That's not supposed to happen, is it? My group doubts whether this levy will work. Is the levy sufficiently high and effective so that these additional jobs can really be created? The quota levy should not work as a hidden ransom that does not help people with disabilities. On this point, too, I would like a clear response from the Secretary of State. The GroenLinks Group in the Lower House has made a number of proposals to make the levy more effective. For example, it has been suggested to increase the levy per unfilled job. Employers who can and should fill a lot of jobs and who lack a lot of them should pay a higher fine per place. It has also been proposed to increase the levy as the employer defaults, year after year, and continuously fails to comply with that obligation. The Secretary of State has previously said that she does not like this, because every job counts equally heavily for her. Moreover, it states that the levy should not be seen as a punitive sanction. Honestly, I don't understand any of that. Surely it is a fine for employers who do not do what they should do and who do not keep their end of the bargain? We want them to keep that agreement, don't we? It should not prevent employers from thinking: I pay nicely and then I am done. It's not like that, is it? What will the Secretary of State do if, year after year, it becomes apparent that it does not work and that too few jobs are created even with this levy? What means does it have behind its hand? Is it prepared to increase the levy or otherwise make it more effective? The Secretary of State does not feel that, for example, it should be mentioned to the public which employers do not comply with this obligation. She sees the tax as a kind of tax, and the Tax Administration doesn't do that kind of thing. I can't follow this either. This is a very special law with a very special charge for a very targeted purpose, isn't it? If it is more effective for employers to make headlines if they do not do what has been agreed year after year, why should the Secretary of State not do so? In the case of public procurement, the State Secretary could consider allowing the fact that an employer does not comply with the agreements year after year to play a role in reducing or eliminating the award of contracts or in the possibility of obtaining such contracts. In addition, the question is what the government does. It must set an example; it must have created 25,000 jobs by 2024. Is this on schedule? Is that gonna work? I would also like to join Mr Elzinga in calling for a rapid evaluation, after two years, of whether it all works, whether the levy has the desired result and is all sufficient. The Secretary of State can't let this go on too long. I have another question about the target group. It is understandable and real that the cabinet focuses on the group of people with earning capacity below the minimum wage. However, others who are supposed to earn the minimum wage on their own on the basis of their training are out of quota. They may be affected by this policy by the fact that they may be even more difficult to get to work or even to be dismissed because of the employer's reasoning: you do not count for the quota and I choose someone who does. That's not supposed to happen, is it? Does the Secretary of State see opportunities to broaden the target group? The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance believes that the quota should be increased, because if the group of people increases, the obligation must also be extended. What does the Secretary of State think of the proposal of the joint client organisations for a weighted quota? In other words, the less the earning capacity of a limited labour force, the heavier it will count for the quota. I think that's an interesting thought. I'd like to get a response from the Secretary of State. A person who is covered by the quota law, who finds a job and who, thanks to the employer's guidance, is able to earn the minimum wage on his own. This person then counts two more years for the quota, so there is still some grace, but after those two years the employer can say: I have nothing to do with you to meet my obligation and therefore I am looking for someone else. That too, of course, would be a perverse effect. That shouldn't happen. I therefore ask the Secretary of State if she would seriously consider extending at least that two-year period, in which you still count for the quota, to five years. That would be a big improvement. We are concerned about the functioning of the target group register, which has been in existence since 1 January. We heard through the VNG that only a small 70 people have been registered in this target group register, while the UWV had been counting on registering 1,000 people per month. The question is, where did all these people go? What's gonna happen? If this doesn't get going, it's just not gonna work. We find this worrying. I would also like a response from the Secretary of State on this point. The Secretary of State is also preparing a no-risk policy for employers to cover the risk of illness, which appears to be higher among this group. We think that is a good thing. Has the Secretary of State taken any steps? Will that no-risk policy come into force on January 1st? The funds to be collected are paid into the invalidity fund, from which the WAO and the WIA are also paid. These resources can eventually be transferred and spent on reintegration and strengthening the labour market position of the target group, but we think it is a very complex detour. Why does the Secretary of State not ensure that the revenue from the levy directly benefits the reintegration of the group concerned today? The Council of State does not consider this a sensible route either. The Council of State believes that it should directly benefit the target group. Is the Secretary of State prepared to look at that again and ensure that the money is directly to the benefit of that group? I see that I am almost at the end of my speaking time. I have one more important point that I will conclude with. In particular, we have difficulty with the context in which this quota law is proposed. We find it incomprehensible that today the Secretary of State, with a still miserable labour market, is continuing to see a situation that will last for many years, despite economic expectations. It's about people who have a hard time getting to work. In recent years, money available for the reintegration of people with disabilities has already been greatly cut back. In 2002, more than 3 billion were still available for the reintegration and training of these people. In 2007, this had already been reduced to 2 billion. This year it goes back to 0.8 billion. That is a huge fall in resources that we are investing in the group of people who are so difficult to get to work. How can the Secretary of State expect, with the miserable labour market, that her plan will succeed and that people with disabilities, the most vulnerable, will come to work? I'd say it's almost an illusion, Secretary of State. That is the wretched feeling that we have with this very nice quota law. She can use this, but there have to be jobs. She should do everything in her power to support this group to get to work. Supposing this autumn it appears that there is financial scope in the budget, we urgently ask the Secretary of State if she is prepared to do her utmost to get additional funds available for the reintegration and training of the group of people who are incredibly difficult to get to work, including those with disabilities. That is the answer we are waiting for. That is very important for my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-3.u9	Mr. Chairman. As a final piece of the Participation Act, the quota threat law has certainly been taken off the shelf to enforce the agreements as the well-known stick behind the door in order to achieve 125,000 additional jobs for people with disabilities in the long term. The paper voluntary agreements of the Social Agreement of 11 April 2013 are not highly valued. Nevertheless, the government hopes that "the quota will create jobs," as can also be seen in the SZW's contour letter of late 2012. It is therefore a question of what is called'real and meaningful jobs', which will also be classified as additional jobs. Verily, it is a great task. The key question is whether this quota law...... actually generates these additional jobs or achieves the opposite. How realistic is it to assume that it is precisely this law that really helps the large group of people with a distance from the labour market? And isn't the fundamental interests of a vulnerable group, which is less able to stand up for itself, finally being soldered here? The underlying question is also whether reality can be modelled on the feasibility vision of this cabinet. The fact that this law needs to be passed is a direct consequence of the Act of Participation; a law that has the pretentious ambition to accommodate the abandoned target groups, some 650,000 people, in the loftyness of an inclusive labour market, which should provide the opportunity to participate fully. This inclusive labour market should provide more opportunities for a regular job, under the implied suggestion that the group would benefit from at least verbally getting out of the bottom of the labour market in favour of that ideal-typical full-time regular job, as envisaged by this cabinet, apparently in a fit of over-employment. Behind this change of labels lies the opportunistic argument that this mega operation should save more than 1.8 billion on the same bottom. The implementation is conveniently shifted to the municipalities, which can do this job in the context of the large forward decentralisation leap with considerably less money. It seems to have been forgotten that the initial report "Working by Power" from 2008 had precisely the intention of "helping more people for the same money." The spiritual father of this report, former minister Bert de Vries, said earlier that "his report was abused to throw the matter over the fence of the municipalities and save 1.8 billion." How does the Secretary of State judge this criticism and can she indicate where the 1.8 billion is actually found? It is remarkable that the conceptual underpinning of the operation is not heard anymore; the occasional jargon used ranging from "trust in citizens and letting go in confidence to the Doe democracy as an unstoppable development" has fortunately been added to the cabinet of platitudes about a participatory society. Unfortunately, the criticism of the Secretary of State himself, in particular, as well as the criticism of the Council of State, has not been able to prevent the adoption of the law. The Council of State had fundamental concerns regarding the objective of decentralisation, the diversity of target groups, the adequacy of resources to be deployed and, in particular, the dependence of changes on the labour market and thus the chances of success for this group. I'm afraid it wasn't supposed to benefit. The criticism that my group had before is also a factor in our appreciation of the quota law. The coherence is obvious. For example, a clear analysis has been lacking to support the gratuite objective of "as many people with disabilities as possible". Nor is there the need to avoid so different target groups and to merge budgets. It cannot be escaped the impression that the budgetary task was the only determining factor for this risky operation. More specifically, it has been pointed out that the local authorities are at odds with the impossible position to mediate various groups with less money by means of a balanced distribution to regular work, let alone in the form of customization. Priority treatment and displacement are not imaginary. The highly changing labour market is not directly tailored to the new target group when it comes to appropriate supply; apart from shrinking and the disappearance of lower qualified jobs, as well as EU entry. A real danger is the emergence of an unemployed career. The conclusion could not be different from that large groups under the heading of participation group have been deliberately defined and placed under the assistance regime, with a high risk of a lower level of assistance or, more often, no assistance at all. The Participation Act, in short, as a gateway to the assistance without a job perspective. While this Secretary of State is still optimistic about the fact that we are no longer leaving disabled people on the sidelines. Does she still believe that this law will change this? To sum up, a counterproductive reorganisation of the lower part of society, solely for the sake of austerity. It is therefore clear that the reason for putting the Quotum Act into effect now is solely the simple fact that the Participation Act will not work on its own, i.e. the disabled do not help work. In fact, the opposite is already happening, as witnessed, among other things, the trend in municipalities to close the social workshops, as this provision already almost completely swallows up the participation budget. My group notes that where it is already visible that the job agreement will not succeed on a voluntary basis, this threat law must be used early in order to create the regular jobs included in the mandate. It was to be expected that the voluntary approach would be unopposed in advance and that the mandatory approach would have to repair this. The whole is nothing more than an entirely instrumental story that is far from reality. It does not solve the major social problem, that there are simply too few jobs for the target group. The government's remark that the agreement was made in an economically poor period and is aimed at long-term development is at best to qualify as an unfounded mortgage on an uncertain future. No more than wishful thinking. The thinking behind both laws is wrong: the intention is possibly good but unfeasible, for several reasons. It has to be recognised that the labour market has for decades been less and less suitable for the disabled. The employment rate of this group has fallen relatively more sharply since 2000, unemployment is structurally much higher than that of the non-working disabled and the chances of dismissal are much higher, even for those who can earn the minimum wage. This alone shows that the policy challenge of integrating the quota target group into the regular labour market is already extremely strong. Personal and job characteristics make this group vulnerable, especially in times of crisis and transition. The sectors in which people have worked or are active have shrunk sharply. The position of the labour market is simply bad. Since the 1970s, demand for lower skilled work has been constantly decreasing. Under-level work has led to the displacement of lower-skilled workers, not counting the decline in the middle-job category. Illustrative for job opportunities is the fact that of the 110,000 vacancies in January 2015 for 1.5 promille, i.e. in 160 cases, reference was made to the Participation Act; 140 times it was a policy officer for its implementation. Is the State Secretary aware of these facts? The context of both laws is also too limited; it ignores a wider framework in which policy changes in the supply and demand side of the labour market are addressed in order to really improve the position of the target group. The fact that a business case still has to demonstrate "how it is economically profitable to help people out of the target group" is significant. What remains is the unfounded hope for a better future, in which the economy attracts and is expected to add more jobs. The current unemployment rate of some 635,000 people is a bad sign in this context. It should be made clear that the long-term decline in the employment rate of workers is not easy to reverse by forcing jobs on employers. The dynamics of the labour market cannot be overcome by a single threat. And recent signals from the employers' front are far from positive: over half of them, 56% of them say they don't want to hire this group: too effective and too intensive, also in terms of guidance. The UWV reports in a knowledge report that only 4% of the larger companies will benefit from a possible fine; employers in the relevant sectors such as agriculture and horticulture will unfortunately not make any extra effort. Only 35% are prepared to step up their efforts for workplaces, but additional measures are needed. It remains to be seen whether the use of the various support instruments to partially compensate employers for reduced productivity and to discourage them will outweigh lower productivity and avoid a possible fine. Apparently, after the euphoria of the once concluded social agreement, the reality is now different from that of this Secretary of State. Time for a wake-up call, but my group believes that the point of no return has already passed in this disastrous austerity game, at the expense of this vulnerable group. Carrying on cramped seems to be the only option. The self-appointed time bomb under the participation event is slowly ticking away. Perhaps this is also a case of keeping a course, as it is called? The progress towards regular and meaningful jobs seems to be becoming forced to create artificial jobs with limited sustainability and a path that is not beneficial to the target group itself. I would like to mention a number of critical aspects in random order. A limited definition of the target group has been chosen, which should be given priority over a guarantee job. People with a WAO or WIA indication, disabled people who can still earn the minimum wage or are not registered at all, have no chance. And how to deal with the long-term sick, a forgotten group? What are the considerations of cutting up the various groups? Have these been budgetary considerations? Furthermore, it is not realistic to place the municipalities as implementing a very broad decentralisation agenda in order to adequately re-integrate this larger and more diverse group with less money. Within this broad range of policy freedom, it is likely that only the easiest cases from the limited target group register will be put to work, at the expense of the less promising, let alone all non-priority beneficiaries who are not currently on the register. How does a city with a tight budget mean anything for this? Offering a balanced offer seems like an illusion, doesn't it? Not only externally, but also within the larger group with distance from the labour market, there is thus in fact undesirable competition and displacement. Are those calculated side effects? Unfortunately, it is literally admitted that "the imposition of a quota levy and the demarcation of the specific target group of the employment agreement will have effects without exception." Can the Secretary of State explain in detail what exactly is meant by these side effects? In short, apart from the possibility that the quota group will probably never get to work to the desired extent and that the law will hardly work, it is certain in advance that the collateral damage will also be large. In fact, this is a piece of illusion policy. Finally, we will end up with the sanctioning in the event that the job agreement is not implemented. That seems very likely given all the sounds.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-3.u10	I know Mr Kok from a number of debates. I sometimes wonder how he looks at the weather forecast. If sun is predicted, he will probably say: it will rain again. When I listen to him like that, he documents this very thoroughly. It's not gonna work. Besides, it's all pretty heavy, with terms like "time bomb" and so on. If we both pursue the right objectives, how does Mr Kok and his party see what could or should be done? This plenary debate is also intended to look at opportunities that can work. Does he have any suggestions for that? Because I haven't listened to it yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-3.u11	I think that my group has an extremely realistic view of the weather conditions. In my view, this is not too difficult, especially at a time when we are dealing with 635,000 unemployed people and where the economy is not really attracting them either. We have to go back to the inclusive labour market as a matter of principle, but I do not think that inclusive labour market is going to work for many groups. Too much has to be done. When I look back at the criticisms of the Council of State and of others who have been at the cradle of the Participation Act, those thoughts have long been abandoned; probably they had the function to bring forward this law, I can only observe that the fact that there is less money for all those who are exposed to the risk of being unable to get a job is an extremely undesirable development. Whether D66 wants to call this nice weather, I will leave it to Mr Backer. We see this as 'cloudy, with a chance of rain', to say it in Mr Backer's terms.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-3.u12	I was listening to heavy storms, but it's a little more positive. I would remind you, by the way, that the predecessor of the Participation Act was the Working Law. I believe that your group has also contributed to this: at least you have tolerated it. What, however, should be the approach to achieving that inclusive labour market that we both want? It could be useful for the debate or for subsequent implementing legislation to hear from you what might be added or what should be better, so that the sun shines.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-3.u13	I wonder in a heartfelt spirit whether this inclusive labour market is apparently being presented as a kind of state of salvation that makes everyone very happy, and whether we should not let go of that thought. The good intentions of the bill and the so-called inclusive labour market are splashing out. I also give everyone the best, especially this group, but there must be a real chance that they will actually get started. It should not be the case that with less money they are discharged into jobs that are artificially created for them. Moreover, the target group is also very limited in itself. There are other groups that may just be able to earn the minimum wage, but which fall back through displacement and then lose their chance. So there are far too many hooks and eyes to make this a success. I am not even talking about the pièce de résistance that we are talking about: the quota law which sanctions and activates that imposed quota. That's a story in itself, which hopefully I'll get to in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-3.u14	I will use my own term to explain my vision on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-3.u15	Mr. Chairman. Finally, if the job agreement is not implemented, we will end up sanctioning it. And that seems very likely given all the sounds. The idea that the need for a cultural change is universally endorsed as the basis of the voluntary employment agreement seems to be based more on a spell of the moment of appointment than on a real intention. The reality will rather be that employers will see a fine as a ransom under the motto: "a fine is a price." It is worth noting that activation of the quota levy, at the earliest from 2017, is not imposed automatically, but only after extensive polder consultations with all parties, since it is a decision with "significant consequences'. In any case, this applies directly to those who have not been helped by this meaningful job. The final political decision may take a while; any "explaining factors" for non-achievement of the job appointment may just lead to failure to activate it. Criteria are unknown and the black box is large. The escape clause is already in place in advance. The entire bureaucratic procedure is very similar to participating in the World Cup against the wind in cycling on the Afsluitdijk; you know in advance that you will never achieve the goal. An additional problem is that, at a high macro level, it is considered whether the two sectors have reached the job agreement. The question is whether the respective employers recognize a common interest. How does the Secretary of State intend to deal with all freeriders who are offered this priest's dilemma for free? Is this also a built-in escape clause? I'm going to conclude with a first conclusion. The two related laws are an unfortunate set of good intentions and wishful thinking, with the beautiful inclusive labour market concept having to package the savings that have been made. I have just said that at Mr Backer's interruption. On balance, the whole operation is no more than a massive shift from a vulnerable group to the discipline of the market in the illusion that it will voluntarily contribute to regular and additional jobs. Characteristic is that the President of VNO-NCW already spoke of "blackmail," a heavy word. What ultimately remains is a technical monstrum of a law and a bureaucratic circus, in which only the performers participate. This was my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-3.u16	Following on from Mr Backer, I have to say that I really do not hear you making any proposals on how to do it. Honestly, I get the heavy feeling that you're extremely cynical. Is that a correct conclusion or do you still have any hope that something positive can happen for the people with disabilities?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-3.u17	I'm gonna go back to the chair.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-3.u18	You will have the opportunity to explain your own plan, because until now I have only heard cynicism from your side.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-3.u19	Well cynicism, it's more of an assessment of how things will turn out in reality. I have just said that the idea of an inclusive labour market is beautiful, but I do not think it is feasible. I have just given examples and figures of this. Moreover, the definition of the group is limited. You yourself have said that there is a great deal of displacement and that other groups are now excluded. The whole of the labour market has not been properly investigated. I think there are a lot of factors, such as job losses and the taking of lower paid jobs by middle groups, which reduces the chances of this group getting started in a meaningful way. Because that's what it's about: they have to be meaningful, extra regular jobs. And whether you think it's cynical or not, given the starting point of the Participation Act, I don't expect it to work out that way, despite all the good intentions. Of course, I would welcome the creation of 125,000 additional jobs. I would therefore like to give the Secretary of State the opportunity to illustrate progress within two years by means of an evaluation. I read now that employers are absolutely not ported to offer jobs like this at all, and I wonder what the hell we're doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-3.u20	I share your view that it is extremely difficult and that all kinds of things are being helped in the wrong direction by the cabinet. But we're in politics to make things better, right? You're sitting here just to increase the odds for those people, aren't you? I am extremely disappointed that you are not linking your criticism to a plan and a commitment from the PVV to ensure that those inclusive jobs are created.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-3.u21	I think that is a very easy question and a very gratuite remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-3.u22	That's what it's all about in our work...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-3.u23	We are now about six years after inventing the Participation Act. Whole tribes have looked into this and its progress. You'd say there's eventually a moving insight. I see more of the result of a tunnel vision. We are simply continuing on the path that has been set in motion towards the state of salvation of inclusive society, but it simply does not come to my view. So you may wonder whether the guiding thought has been right or whether one should have returned in the meantime. I personally think that would have been a better way. Now we are only going to move forward and we are going to evaluate later what has hopefully gone well. In my opinion, however, it will not be the same as is currently desired. Moreover, I do not have a concept in place with which it might suddenly be possible to do so. I do not want to pretend that I suddenly have the solution to this difficult problem, because it is a broader labour market problem with many more factors that have not been investigated either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-3.u24	Mrs. Fox, you made your point. I call Mr De Lange.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-3.u25	Mr. Chairman. I am pleased to be able to express this contribution on behalf of the Animal Party. Whether my contribution is oil on the fire or on the waves, we'll see. Unemployment in the Netherlands and in most euro area countries has been a serious and persistent problem for many years now. At present, there is no doubt that precisely because of the cramped adherence to the euro, unemployment has grown to unprecedented proportions. Unfortunately, this has made mass unemployment a reality. Nevertheless, with youth unemployment above 50% in various southern European countries and a sovereign debt far beyond their capacity and never to be repaid, the Shylocks of the European Commission, of the ECB, of the euro group and even of the Dutch Government demand their last pound of meat. Unfortunately, the fact that you cannot squeeze blood out of a stone has escaped our short-sighted Eurocrats. Because of the complete lack of a sense of reality about what is called the euro, and because of the counterproductive austerity policy, our own country has also been severely affected and unemployed people, simple taxpayers, savers, and current and future pensioners are paying the brunt of this sad injustice. The situation in the Netherlands cannot be separated from these international developments. If we do not put these developments in a more rational light than has unfortunately happened so far, we cannot expect much good from the solutions to unemployment. That is perhaps a little support for Mr Kok. Unemployment occurs among all kinds of groups of the population, particularly among older people, young people, immigrants and labour restrictions. By the way, you're older in the Netherlands when you're 45. In fact, this is the biggest challenge for an appropriate socio-economic policy of this government. Is the problem being dealt with? If so, how and how effective is that? Combating persistent unemployment that affects so many different groups requires a broad approach that combines different policies for the different groups. If this is not the case, there is a huge risk that displacement effects will occur that will make the problems bigger rather than smaller. Too much is felt in the current government policy that these are not well coordinated nap measures that do not tackle the unemployment problem at the heart. That is what worries our groups. The present legislative proposal focuses on a single group, that of the labour restricted. It is clear that this group is experiencing serious problems in the labour market and that only coherent support measures can provide relief here. Despite the fact that one can sympathise with the objectives of the legislative proposal, the question nevertheless arises as to whether it will prove to be sufficiently effective. Several elements of it give rise to serious doubts. We are going into these aspects in greater detail. The starting point for the legislative proposal is a voluntary employment agreement made with the social partners to create a total of 125,000 jobs for people with disabilities in the next 10 years; 100,000 in the market sector and 25,000 in the public sector. It is right that the government is happy with this voluntary agreement, although promising and realising in practice are very different things. It is therefore understandable that the government is trying, through supporting policies, to achieve the commitments made. Are the good methods chosen for this? The starting point is that hiring people with disabilities on purely economic grounds is generally not profitable because of their lower labour productivity. Nevertheless, in a society like most of us, employers and government have a moral duty to offer this category of people opportunities for a meaningful life. In this sense, the voluntary initiative certainly deserves appreciation and support. The question is what the government will then do to reduce the associated economic problems. In particular, the municipalities and the UWV can play a role in this through wage subsidies and pay dispensation, by introducing a no-risk policy to compensate for additional costs in the event of illness and disability, and by providing subsidies for workplace adjustments and guidance. Those are meaningful things. Nevertheless, the government is suspicious and does not trust that the voluntary social agreement will without doubt lead to the promised result. And that lack of confidence in a good result is the main reason for the legislative proposal before us. Because if volunteering does not lead to the agreed results, the government introduces coercion. The curious thing is that agreements with the social partners have been made at collective level, but after some time, in the event of non-compliance, fines are imposed on individual employers with 25 employees or more. Where the government, as always, has the choice between the methods of the root and the methods of the stick, the stick is chosen here. In general, this is not the best way to achieve goals, because it also evokes irritation among those involved. Moreover, the question arises as to whether the stick is thick enough to be effective. This approach also opens the door to a bureaucratic festivities with databases and monitoring, while ignoring the fact that the economic playing field for employers in the Randstad and in shrinking areas is often uneven. It is therefore not expected that an overall economic penalty will be balanced for all employers. Therefore, there is a great danger that the support that still exists before the voluntary agreement will soon be undermined. It is not too difficult for employers to evade these agreements at individual level, regardless of the fact that collective agreements have been reached. "Free rider" behaviour is lurking and the quota can easily be bypassed by the use of flex workers. For an employer with just over 25 employees it becomes attractive to reduce this number slightly to stay below the limit. The fact that employers' organisations would be able to take into account branches, sectors, organisations and different labour market regions to ensure that all employers contribute according to capacity, seems to us to be an illusion that cannot be realised, with risks again for acceptance. Experiences with other countries with a similar system of fines do not give rise to any optimism. In Germany the scheme is not a success, and in Italy and Spain there is a scheme, but in the well-known South European way there is no control. It is to be feared that the effect of the law, if introduced, will be to increase burdens and red tape for business, without adequate help being given to the target group of people with disabilities. Unfortunately, we know only too well where the proverbial good intentions often lead. The fact that much of the implementation is left to municipalities which are already at risk of drowning in the decentralisation waves is another cause for concern. Another curious consequence of this law deserves further consideration and that concerns the position of social workshops. The Rutte 1 cabinet decided on a substantial cut of EUR 700 million. In 2010, 100,000 people worked in the social employment service. According to the CPB, this measure will reduce this number by 65% in 10 years and some 40,000 people will be forced to disappear into assistance. This sad measure will get extra cachet if we read in the explanatory memorandum of 24 February 2015 that the government would have no problem with it if employers set up a joint labour pool to help people get to work. Effectively, this would simply mean that the disbanded social workshops for which the government no longer wanted to take responsibility would be privatised and now come under the responsibility of the employers, without, of course, any guarantee of their survival. Our groups find this possible development bizarre. One final aspect that we would like to address is the possible displacement effects. Unemployment is a widespread phenomenon which not only affects people with disabilities. To what extent do the attention and resources devoted to this group go to the detriment of whole cohorts of other unemployed people? The government has surprisingly little to say about this important question. In a sentence with a very high open door level, the government states that giving priority to a particular group requires very careful consideration. The government also states that there are other groups of citizens who are struggling in the labour market. In fact, this kind of idle talk, from which no vision speaks of how to tackle a crucial problem in our society, is a mockery. Our groups have a bitter taste for this kind of non-committalism. I come to the conclusion of the first deadline. The proposal aims to address a serious problem in society, namely unemployment among the very specific group of people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-3.u26	I have a question for Mr De Lange, who always has clear points of view. Does not the problem of non-committalism and labour market displacement play a role as soon as we get the guilder back?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-3.u27	Will you say that again, Mr Terpstra?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-3.u28	Does not the problem of non-committalism of employers' agreements and labour market displacement play a role as soon as we have the guilder again?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-3.u29	Yes, that problem will always play to a certain extent, but if we highlight a group without clarity about how other groups are handled and without a coherent policy, it will in any case lead to major problems. An additional point is, of course, that it is of the utmost importance to improve the whole labour market situation. In the future you can hope that it is easier to operate the individual groups better. You don't hear me say that displacement effects will never occur, but if you make a bill for a single group, while about other groups where the problems are of similar size let me say it carefully, because you can argue about that for a very long time you know in advance that it will be very problematic. I assume I do not need to convince Mr Terpstra that many other groups have huge problems in the labour market. Of course, there is a great deal of sympathy for the aim of reducing unemployment among people with disabilities. That is not the point of the debate. However, our groups have the greatest doubts about the effectiveness of this approach. Those doubts are not overcome by the rhetoric which the government believes it should use where a commercial and factual justification of the expected effectiveness is largely lacking. We are, of course, looking forward to the answer given by the Secretary of State on the various points raised. However, it is unlikely that more rhetoric will lead to a reduction in our current concerns.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-3.u30	Madam President. On behalf of my group, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the detailed answers to the questions put in writing, but not all the answers have led to conviction. That is why I come back to that in this speech. Two years ago, in April 2013, the social partners and the cabinet concluded the now widely known social agreement. This agreement provides for various agreements, including an agreement between employees and employers on the fulfilment of 125,000 additional jobs by people with labour restrictions, both in the market and in the government. But they agreed even more. Agreements were concluded, among other things, on the right of dismissal, the duration of the WW, the position of flex workers, the transition fee and so on. All these agreements in the agreement are expected by the parties who have to comply with and implement the agreements to do so in a correct and complete manner. However, it is striking that there is a suspicion about the employment agreement to be carried out by employers in the market and in the public sector as regards the creation of these additional jobs for people with disabilities. The question is whether this suspicion is justified. I don't think so. All interested parties show that they take this task very seriously and want to bring it to fruition. Regional work companies are set up, employers' service points are set up and employers are busy in their own organisation, often with support from the UWV, with the selection of suitable functions and, if possible, increasing the number of suitable jobs through job carving. We can also observe that many Wajongers who are already working with an employer do so under the guidance of a job coach. Three quarters of current employers with a Wajanger have organised additional support for this and two thirds of these employers have already adapted jobs to give these employees with some work constraints a suitable place of work. Next, we read in the 2014 Labour Market Participation Monitor that the share of employers with a Wajanger or WGA employee increased in 2013. These are all phenomena which indicate a great deal of involvement in this particular employment problem and a great willingness and even conviction that it is desirable for everyone with a work capacity to participate in the labour market. What I am describing here is a convincing answer to the question of how most employers want to deal with this problem. They therefore want to make a positive contribution to the realisation of the job agreement. If this listed position is endorsed and if the data from the mentioned monitor of the UWV are recognised, the members of the VVD Group wonder what is the need to submit the quota part of this law. We also discussed this issue in the written round of questions, but did not receive a convincing and satisfactory answer. In her argument, the Secretary of State does not go beyond the fact that the quota law is "such a good stick behind the door." A stick behind the door is usually not stimulating and not motivating. On the contrary: such an attitude very often deprives of enthusiasm and creativity. It is precisely these elements that are needed, when we ask employers to contribute to the social problem of underemployment for people with limited working capacity. The Secretary of State also repeatedly states that she is confident that employers will fulfil the obligations of the job agreement. This confidence, combined with the positive attitude of employers as I have outlined, once again raises the question: why does the Secretary of State think that this quota part of the law is necessary and why now? This part shall enter into force at the earliest as from 2017. I would say: encourage employers to comply with the agreements, give them their confidence and address them. Please also address them to the expectation that we can all have that they will achieve those 125,000 jobs. This approach could avoid excessive regulation. The VVD Group is pleased to receive a convincing response from the government. In addition to these doubts about the usefulness and necessity of the quota part of this law, the members of the VVD Group still have questions about various parts of this law. All employers in our country are called upon to achieve the job agreement, both through facilitation and coercion, as indicated above. This scheme, which is a job arrangement, is therefore a general scheme, unlike the subsequent quota scheme, which is specific. The large employers are faced with the quota levy in case of insufficient or insufficient job creation, but this does not apply to small employers. What is the reason for this distinction and why has the government set the limit for 25 employees? Is there a sufficient level playing field here in similar circumstances? How does the Secretary of State intend to encourage and persuade the category of small employers to employ people with disabilities, now that the quota levy does not apply to them? Smaller employers in SMEs, in particular, often find simple work and the working environment is more individualised. There are therefore opportunities for workers with limited working capacity. I'd like the Secretary of State's view on this. We all know that the government wants to create a smaller government. However, within the Ministry of Social Affairs and Employment there is also the idea of bringing various logistical functions in the government that are currently carried out by the market back to the government. Does the employment agreement, in particular the obligation for the government sector, not have a strong effect on the transfer of these jobs to the government? Do these jobs, even though they already exist in substance, count in achieving the employment agreement in the government sector? Will they be deducted from the zero measurement of the sector market? The question is also how the existing work will be recognised if it appears in the other sector, shaped in another job. In previous replies, the Secretary of State states that the employment agreement must fit into the financial budgetary frameworks, but these frameworks are co-determined by its own staff and hired labour capacity. A shift from hiring to own employees may increase the size of the public workforce, but the question is whether this shift has an effect on the fulfilment of the job agreement. What is this effect, both in the public sector and in the market? In the written examination of this bill, my group also asked how to deal with the imposition of the quota levy on companies which, while having suitable functions for people in the target group, are not candidates in the UWV. The Secretary of State states that there must be flexibility on both sides to match positions and candidates. This seems to me to be self-evident in the performance of functions, but the problem outlined by my group is of a quantitative nature. What happens to the quota levy if there are no competent and suitable candidates or candidates from the target group in the region of the company concerned for the job vacancies in a company? Are these companies exempted from the levy for reasons of force majeure? If so, how and by whom will competence and availability be determined? If not, is it not unfair to impose a levy under conditions which cannot be influenced by the persons concerned? In the opinion of the Secretary of State, are there any other possible situations in which the cause of not achieving the job agreement is outside the employer's influence? Does the Government intend to grant an exemption from the quota levy in such situations? If so, what is the exemption scheme going to look like? I would like a detailed reply from the Secretary of State, as this is a serious consideration for my group. The government also indicates that the quota levy will only be activated after careful consultation between the social partners and municipalities and that any explanatory factors that may lead to the failure to achieve the job agreement will be discussed in consultation. The members of the VVD Group would like to hear what the government means by this phrase. Is the purpose of this consultation aimed at reaching agreement, taking and formulating a joint decision? Is it an advice to the government? Should that advice be unambiguous? What happens if no decision is taken or no common position is taken? What happens in the case of fundamental differences in the explanatory factors mentioned? What arguments can play a role in this? What importance can be attached to these arguments? What value can or should be attached to economic developments that have a negative impact on employment levels and the number of jobs? For example, there may be other factors that play a role in whether or not the job agreement is fully respected. What factors are these? What importance is attached to this in the dialogue between the social partners and VNG? In order to achieve a good match between demand and supply of work capacity, employers need information about the members of the target group. How does an employer obtain the necessary information? What can and can the employer do with this? What data from the target group registration cannot be provided on the basis of the protection of personal data? What information may the UWV provide to the person? Is that also allowed to be data on labour restrictions? From answers to previous questions, it can be concluded that information about members of the target group should not go beyond that they belong to the target group. Good protection for vulnerable people is required. On the other hand, good information is needed for employers to be able to select, guide, develop, train and possibly further train. We would like to hear the position of the Secretary of State on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-3.u31	Mr. Chairman. Everyone deserves a chance to get to work. Because work ensures independence, contributes to self-esteem and contributes to the economy as well as to social cohesion. But not everyone gets that chance to get to work. For example, the employment rate of people with disabilities is low. The Participation Act was therefore a good step for my group. It helps people with a distance from the labour market to participate. Rather, we are talking here about the foundation of the labour market. The social agreement places a minimum of 125 000 jobs on solid pillars for people who are remote from the labour market. The objective of the employment agreement and the quota levy is to increase the employment rate of people with disabilities and to appeal to employers for their responsibility in this area. Employers have committed to create 100,000 additional jobs up to 2026 and the government adds 25,000 jobs. These are not non-binding agreements. If private and public sector employers fail to comply with their macro-level employment agreements, a legal quota for individual employers will be activated. All this to promote the necessary transition to a more inclusive labour market. The PvdA is a warm supporter of a more inclusive labour market. According to my party, this makes an important contribution to a better and fairer society. Apart from that, it means a lot to the target group to be able and allowed to participate. We therefore wholeheartedly support the employment agreement in the social agreement. We hope that the quota levy will never have to enter into force, because everyone is committed to the fulfilment of the job agreement. We would like to take this opportunity to ask the Secretary of State a number of questions during this plenary session about the expected functioning of the present legislative proposal. First of all, I would like to draw attention to the job agreement. The government is confident that this agreement means that a substantial number of additional jobs will be available for a group that is still difficult to get to work. What does the government base that trust on, anyway? After all, it is a macro-level agreement. Why should individual companies that are not affected by their responsibility make an effort to do so? If none of the micro-level companies takes action to contribute to the macro-level agreement, that agreement will also not be met. In short, isn't this a classic priest's dilemma? On what basis does the Secretary of State base her confidence in fulfilling the job agreement? My group therefore considers it unlikely that the agreed number of additional jobs will not be achieved. It strongly supports the entry into force of the quota levy set out in the legislative proposal. She thinks this is an important stick behind the door. I would like to put a number of questions to the Secretary of State in order to make this instrument as effective as possible. The first concerns the justification of this quota levy. The quota levy is €5,000 per unfinished job. This amount comes from the coalition agreement and has been agreed in the social agreement. In the reply, the Government states that it has not based the amount of the levy on a numerical basis but on the assumption that this amount is sufficiently high to encourage employers to provide more jobs for people in the target group. But what is this assumption based on? Can the Secretary of State give figures that it is more economically profitable for employers to hire people from the target group rather than pay the levy? For the time being, my group is not convinced that a company that does not need to meet the quota requirements would rather pay the quota levy. In the reply we read that the government does not assume this, but lacks a numerical basis for that expectation. And what about employers in the public sector? They also receive an annual quota charge of €5,000 per full unrealised job if they do not achieve the number of jobs they should have achieved under the quota rate. Does my group understand that the revenue from this tax then flows into the treasury through the Tax Administration? Then how does the Secretary of State prevent the stick from being a weak twig when it comes to the public sector? I would also like to draw attention to the coherence with other legislation in the case of small businesses. The quota does not apply to small businesses, i.e. not to employers with fewer than 25 employees. As a result of an amendment to the Work and Security Act, these companies also need to pay less transition fees if the business is going badly with the company. In addition, small businesses only need to publish a simplified balance sheet and profit and loss account. In that case, auditing is not required. My group fears an incentive to cut companies into small businesses with fewer than 25 employees in order to get out of legislation. Does the Secretary of State share this concern? If not, why not? And if so, what consequences does it have? I would also like to hear from her how she encourages companies with less than 25 employees to take on labour restrictions. There is also a lack of coherence in the definition of "small." For example, the present legislative proposal assumes fewer than 25 employees. However, in the accounting legislation, a company is "small" if it has met at least two of the following three criteria for two consecutive years. I'll name them in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-3.u32	At the beginning of her speech, Mrs Sent praised the agreements so much that she hoped that the quota levy would never be introduced. In the rest of her speech, she questioned aspects of the social agreement. It points out that many employers will do different things individually than VNO has agreed, that they will make a different calculation of that €5,000, or that they will split up their business into smaller companies with 24 employees per company. What part of the social agreement is she praised for?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-3.u33	On the whole, my group has a positive expectation that the social agreement will be drawn up. The importance of this Chamber is to pay attention to its potentially unintended consequences. I hope that the Secretary of State can reassure us and that these unintended consequences will not arise. I also hope that implementation will be monitored so that action can be taken if these unintended consequences occur. I talked about the criteria that a company must meet in order to be regarded as a small company. Companies are small if they have met at least two of the following three criteria in two consecutive years: the value of the assets does not exceed 4.4 million, the net turnover does not exceed 8.8 million and the workforce is less than 50 persons. Why is this definition not included in the present legislative proposal? Coherence with equal treatment legislation also raises questions for the PvdA. Protection based on this legislation can be invoked in the case of discrimination in the field of work, such as employment, recruitment and selection, etc. An employer may also make a distinction on the basis of disability or chronic illness by pursuing a preferred policy. This preference policy must meet four criteria. 1. The backwardness of the group to be privileged must be made plausible in the specific case; the demand for demonstrable backwardness. 2. When offering a job, it must be clearly stated that a preferred policy is being pursued and that the vacancy is open to everyone; the requirement of awareness. 3. An objective assessment of all candidates should be carried out taking into account the extent to which each candidate fulfils the job requirements. Appointment of a candidate from the preferred group may only take place if the candidate is equally qualified; the due diligence requirement. 4. The gravity of the preferred measure should be justified by the degree of delay; the proportionality requirement. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State how the present bill relates to these four requirements. What if the candidate from the preferred group is not equally qualified? How can employers design their preferred policies in the present legislative proposal in such a way that they comply with equal treatment legislation? The target group for the job appointment includes people with a Wajong benefit, a WSW indication, or a Wiw or ID job and people from the target group of the Participation Act who cannot earn the statutory minimum wage (WML). In the Work Room it is agreed that Wajangers and WSW'ers on the waiting list will be given priority in the first years of placement. How does this agreement relate to equal treatment legislation? To the members of the PvdA Group eagerly hope, the UN Convention on persons with disabilities will soon enter into force for the Netherlands as well. This Convention also encourages States Parties to better integrate people with disabilities into the labour market. Is the present bill already in line with the letter and spirit of this important UN treaty? I would also like to draw attention, on behalf of the PvdA, to a number of additional potential unintended consequences of the quota levy. For example, companies could choose to create a kind of social workshop themselves in order to comply with quota agreements. In the reply, the government states that the setting up of a joint labour pool from which people can work in participating companies fits within the arrangements, provided that this results in the agreed numbers of additional jobs at macro level. Is that the inclusive labour market envisaged by the State Secretary? Does this contribute to self-esteem and social cohesion? The same questions I put to the Secretary of State about the inclusion of loan associations with user employers. Does she fear, with my group, that labour restrictions are endlessly assigned to posting structures? Does she consider this to be an undesirable situation from the point of view of the labour restrictions? Surely this cannot be the inclusive labour market that the Secretary of State envisages? This does not contribute to the sense of self-esteem and social cohesion, does it? Furthermore, the government has previously indicated that there are practical implementation considerations against the inclusion of loan associations among borrowers. Then what does the Secretary of State base her confidence that this is feasible? It could also be the case that employers attract more self-employed people without staff and flex workers in order to circumvent the quota. In the reply, the government admits that this is theoretically possible. Then why does the Secretary of State believe that this will not happen in practice? More generally, the PvdA would like to draw the attention of the State Secretary to discrimination, exclusion and stigmatisation in the labour market. We would like to hear from her what she is doing or intends to do to tackle this discrimination. Is it prepared to consult with employers on the necessary mentality changes and to draw their attention to their social role? Where the job agreement applies at macro level, the quota levy per individual company is regulated. This means that each individual company must comply with the quota. It seems to my group that it is extremely remarkable, perhaps even unreasonable, for individual companies not to be able to rely on special circumstances. Does the Secretary of State share this assessment? For example, there could be companies which, because of the nature of their work or their regional location, do not have the possibility of providing a workplace for disabled people, but which ensure that parties with whom they cooperate do so. We should like to hear from the Secretary of State why she believes that these companies should be subject to a quota levy. I'm rounding up. In my group's view, the legislative proposal before us could take important steps towards inclusive and activating labour market policies. My group's concerns relate to the justification of the expected results, the consistency with other legislation, potentially unintended consequences and the reasonableness of the quota levy for a number of individual companies. I hope that I have listed for Mr Terpstra how we stand in this debate. In view of these concerns, we ask the Secretary of State to agree to evaluate the operation of the quota levy on these points one year after its possible introduction and to share the results with this Chamber. We hope, of course, with the Secretary of State, that the macro-level employment agreement will be met so that we do not have to resort to the micro-level quota levy. We are looking forward not only to her answers, but above all to private and public sector employers who take responsibility for achieving an inclusive labour market.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-3.u34	Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union Group is a strong supporter of the adage of an inclusive and activating labour market; a labour market where everyone has a place. Our main focus is on those who want to work, but who need extra care because of a labour restriction to make the move to the labour market. Workers at the top of the labour market can save themselves, but for people with a distance from the labour market that is a different story. People with a labor barrier need support. A society of solidarity offers this support and without falling into all kinds of terms and conditions. The Christian Union therefore welcomed the social agreement in which the social partners committed themselves to 100,000 additional jobs for disabled people in the market sector. The cabinet attached to this the well-known obligation of 25,000 additional jobs in the public sector for people with disabilities. In dealing with the Act on Participation, we raised critical questions on this subject, particularly with regard to implementation, but our basic attitude was certainly positive. It is good that all parties, social partners and public authorities have taken joint responsibility for helping these vulnerable groups to get to work. These include all Wajangers, with the exception of those who are fully and permanently disabled, those with a WSW indication who are on the waiting list, those who are now working in a WIW or ID job, and beneficiaries who are unable to earn the statutory minimum wage under the Participation Act. Whether an unemployment rate of 645 000 people is going to work to tempt employers to create additional jobs for this weak labour market group is, of course, the question. It seems that the cabinet is also not confident that the agreements concluded will lead to the desired goal being achieved. After all, today we are discussing the bill introducing a quota levy for employers in the market and public sector who evade the obligation to employ people with disabilities. I would therefore like to limit my contribution to this levy. We should not repeat the debate on the Participation Act here today. First of all, the level of the levy. Mrs. Sent pointed that out as well. It is still unclear from the reply as to what the maximum fine of €5,000 is actually based on. Is it a blow in the air or are there more substantive arguments behind it? How does the fine relate to similar charges in the market and public sector? Is the levy really high enough to be effective as a stick behind the door? Is it not easy for companies that have little use for providing jobs to people with disabilities to buy this off? Those are the essential questions. Moreover, let there be no misunderstanding about the need for the levy itself. My group shares this need. However, we want a stronger balance between negative and positive incentives. The Christian Union Group is in favour of rewarding companies with a high profile of social entrepreneurship for employing vulnerable groups of people with disabilities. A good balance between positive and negative incentives. Fortunately, we also know those companies that do that. We believe that the revision of the tax system is an excellent opportunity for a positive incentive, for which we would like to make a plea. The House of Representatives adopted a motion from Christian Union and PvdA on this matter and the State Secretary undertook to raise this matter with her colleague Wiebes. She even drew it wider and would, I quote, "put it on the table in the bosom of the cabinet." It can't be much deeper. My group would like to hear whether the Secretary of State has already taken this action and what the reactions were. How strong is it going to be for this positive fiscal stimulus to social entrepreneurship? Does she want to be addressed by this Chamber? The government itself has committed 25,000 additional jobs. The 2014 budget agreement has strengthened this. The Minister of the Interior has a coordinating role in this. In his letter of 29 March last year, the quotas of additional jobs to be created were divided by sector and year. This brings my group to the following two questions. First of all, how exactly was the directional function invested between the Secretary of State and the Minister in this dossier? Is this going to be stress-free? Who is the ultimate ruler? Secondly, what happens if the public sector does not achieve the self-imposed target of 25,000 additional jobs? What happens if individual government organisations fail to realise the grounded quotas? The response is very weak on this point. I quote: "In case of a possible quota levy, government employers are individually addressed to their obligation by means of a compulsory levy, if not met." That "talking" won't make the real difference. The Christian Union Group therefore wants to challenge the Secretary of State to take a firmer position on this and send a more decisive signal. It cannot be the case that the government defaults if it fails to comply with the commitment of 25,000 additional jobs. It would certainly have a negative impact on the attitudes of the social partners, which account for the majority of additional jobs for vulnerable groups. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. The jobs that will be offered to people with disabilities are, at least as a standard, jobs of some 25.5 hours a week through the remuneration formula. To our questions about formal job requirements, the government replied that there are no specific requirements on working hours or the nature of the employment that employers offer to people in the target group for the job appointment. Here, however, the macro-agreements on quotas affect micro-development at company level, in a very direct sense. Doesn't the Secretary of State fear that this could lead to a certain arbitrariness, a stream of improper and temporary contracts? These are vulnerable groups with a fragile negotiating position. Can the Secretary of State clarify the relationship with the Work and Security Act we adopted in this house last year? A final point on the possible displacement effects that may arise as a result of this legislative proposal. In my group's view, this has not been sufficiently discussed. And it is a difficult issue, let us not forget: a possible competitive battle between groups with a vulnerable labour market position that are on the sidelines for a variety of reasons. These are people who do not directly fall within the scope of the legislative proposal, people in the disease law, the WGA, older unemployed or those who earn just a little bit more than the statutory minimum wage. Does there remain sufficient attention to the difficult position of these groups in the labour market? With the introduction of a statutory penalty regime on the employment of labour restrictions, the question is whether employers will not confine themselves to the direct target group of the Quotum Act in their assumption policy. When the quota agreements are not met, they are calculated on the employment rate of people in the target group and not from the adjacent groups. What does this do with the position of other vulnerable groups in the labour market? How does the Secretary of State deal with this thorny problem? Does it share the potential danger of displacement effects? What policy is envisaged here, including for the public sector itself? I'm closing up. The Christian Union Group sees the added value of this bill to establish a quota levy. We do have a number of fundamental questions about this. What good would it be if the levy did not have to be activated, because companies and public authorities are meeting the targets brilliantly? It would be wonderful if they could prove to be able to transform our labour market into an inclusive and activating labour market. This gives people with disabilities a real perspective and the idea of full participation. My group is looking forward to receiving the answers from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-3.u35	Mr. Chairman. In order to be brief as a last speaker, it helps that the response was comprehensive and clear and has reached us in good time. It also helps that there has been a very detailed debate in the House of Representatives. A number of improvements have been made and a number of interesting issues have also been raised by the previous speakers, among others by Mr Ester, who fortunately has returned to our midst. I have three parts in my speech: the lead to the labour market; the question of whether this is a unique Dutch issue and whether positive action is legitimate. As regards access to the labour market, as has been said many times today, it is a very difficult way to find a job for a person with disabilities. Due to the nature of the situation, he or she is lagging behind in a labour market dominated by supply and demand. We are talking about a market, but like many markets, there are, of course, barriers to entry and distortions. That certainly applies to these accessions. There is therefore de facto no equality of opportunity. My colleague Vos has already brought that up in her contribution. Fortunately, the Act of Participation, which entered into force on 1 January of this year, has drawn the right conclusion, namely that the delay should be as minimally formalized as possible in what my group would call a paternalistic benefit scheme. The regulations that fixed those delays also offered little chance of appealing to people's own strength. Now the focus has come much more to the question of how own strength can be used with supporting facilities and how labour potential can really be realised. The criticism of the Participation Act was that the proposal took away existing rights. Indeed, we are not going to repeat the debate on this, but it has been mentioned a number of times today that the positive side of the Participation Act was "which was decisive for us' to see opportunities to return to participation. That's important. The text of the social agreement and the commitment to revising the arrangements, culminating in the employment agreement and the Participation Act, illustrate that there is something else going on, namely awareness in society that positive action is necessary to make that other side of the coin real for people with disabilities and that that is not just a concern that has been outsourced to the government but a social responsibility that needs to be borne much wider and that concerns us all. The legislative proposal encourages employers to consider hiring people with disabilities with the help of regional work companies and to explore the options available in this area. There is much potential for development from that own strength, but with guidance. That is the human side, but there is also a human potential that can be unlocked. This is simply the economic side of a market where demographic trends are moving towards an increasing ageing population. The employment agreement and the proposal before us are an invitation to all concerned to look again at the work organisations within companies and the government. But also in the broad sense, in the organisation of participation in society. How, for example, can self-employment be promoted? Where else can production and services be arranged? Where are new creative solutions possible? In a labour market where physical work is becoming increasingly low, there is also, in a relative sense, more possibility for people with physical disabilities to participate. So much for accession. The second part of my speech is whether this is a unique Dutch approach. It's been coming up for a while. The EU Directive 2000/78/EC allows both quota and discrimination bans to the Member States. We also know the UN Disability Convention, which was just mentioned in Mrs Sent's speech. Let's take a look around Europe. In 20 of the 28 countries there is a form of quota or levy. The phenomenon of quotas in other European countries has been investigated, as I also read in the reply, but there are few empirical data available. I checked myself to see if there was anything left to find. There is a study by the European Centre for Social Welfare Policy and Research in Vienna. This concludes that measures based on anti-discrimination, i.e. the civil law side, or criminal law provisions are about as common as quota systems. I found another TNO report from 2012 and an OECD study, but the disadvantage of all these studies is that they very often address incomparable schemes in incomparable labour markets. As a result, when you look at the environment, it is a bit of a guess which is now decisive for employers to comply with their job agreements or quotas on the basis of empirie. Is that an intrinsic motivation? Is it faith in equal opportunities? Is it corporate social responsibility? Or is it taking-and-shaming if you don't? What my group is intriguing is whether there is any consultation in the EU on this issue, even recently and, if so, its status. Are there best practices and, if so, are they incorporated into the proposals somewhere? I do not actually read about it, which is relevant in a European market. The answers to questions from CDA colleagues about Germany and other countries are also only descriptive. No conclusions are drawn on lessons learned. I invite the Secretary of State to go into that more specifically today. Because of the inconvenience that many people have about a charging scheme, that is important. I would also like to know if there are any more recent studies that I may have overlooked. An important by-catch of the legislative proposal may turn out to be the main catch in a few years' time, but there will be a toolbox that will lead to a better understanding of the labour pool, an improved organisation with a role for municipalities and contacts through the workplace and not least the no-risk policy. Of course, we also have the test placement and wage costs subsidy, but I think that the no-risk policy is incredibly important for the security that employers are looking for. I understand from the Ministry's website that there is now a proposal. Mrs. Vos was just asking about this. Is that available on time? When does it take effect? Is this parallel to the introduction of these schemes in 2016 and 2017? I was talking about by-catch, but I will not go further in parallel with fishing. My next point concerns the question of whether positive action is justified. Even if it is not clear in advance what the impact is, this is often the case with sanctioning regimes. This proposal, in my group's view, has a particular common justification for a certain degree of positive discrimination. This aspect has not really been discussed in the whole of the legal process until College Sent has just spoken. It seems to me that it is a matter for the Supreme Court to ask whether positive discrimination is justified. We talked about displacement. Job agreements and quotas for one group exclude other groups, even if we call it an inclusive labour market. Of course, there is also a preferred action in the prioritisation process. Doesn't this lead to blockades? After all, the available wage bill often remains the same. And how will it be divided? This subject has been discussed in the House of Representatives and the Van Weyenberg amendment has also been tabled on this point. Apart from the College of Human Rights, there has actually been no mention of it. There have been precedents in the past, Mr Elzinga, but they go back rather far. I mention the WAGW in 1998 and later the REA Act. There was a quota in there, but it was never activated. The European Court of Human Rights has ruled on the principle of justified discrimination. In the cases of Stec against the United Kingdom and Runkee and White, the Strasbourg Court ruled that the introduction of a different treatment was concerned with the effective date of invalidity pension on the basis of sex, in order to achieve a socially desirable objective, not only does not infringe the prohibition of discrimination, but in certain cases violates the equality clause of failure to introduce such measures of positive discrimination. That also fits a bit with the disability convention. The ECHR states that it must be reasonably and objectively justified. This can play a part in the discussion of whether or not the charges will come into force. My group would also like to see the weighted quota included in this debate. I understand that this can no longer be part of the legislation at this stage of the treatment, but it could be addressed in the assessment and review of the target group in 2017. My question is whether the Secretary of State excludes this or whether it is possible. Maybe the activation of the levy isn't even necessary. Perhaps the mere fact of the prospect that employers can be persuaded is enough. It may be an advantage that it is a step-by-step system of introduction. In fact, it is a "already now for then" scheme. It will only enter after consultation and after evaluation. Some consider that to be a disadvantage because then there is no automatism. However, I think it is an advantage because we are actually taking a decision based on facts that has a lot of impact. I was pleased to read in the explanatory statement about all kinds of possibilities for cooperation by employers in a common pool or outsourcing a quota. At first you wonder whether this does not affect the spirit of the scheme, but the question of whether it will eventually be achieved that people will be able to participate in the labour market should be decisive. I'm less concerned at that point and I see the sun shining a little more. The brochure "Employers include" from the AWVN, VNO-NCW and SMEs are very strongly committed to this scheme. Once large companies declare themselves to do so and publish it, it will have significance for their executives and their supervisory boards. However, I think it will help once it is written in black and white, although that brochure is in colour. I'm not gullible, but this is not an empty message. All such pragmatic solutions have given us a bit of a softer voice, even though it is still a crazy scheme. It is a collective agreement that you as an employer can only partly influence, but it is an individual charge that comes over you as punishment. That inconvenience is somewhat mitigated for us now. I find it reassuring that there is no budgetary incentive to increase the levies. There is a Van Ojik/Kerstens motion, but it is more of a punishment increase than anything else. There is no question that the level of taxation is necessary in order to supplement the fund of the wage subsidy. I wouldn't think that was a good mechanism either. Finally, I come to the desirability of this 'already before then' regulation or, more domestic, stick behind the door. My group has already expressed its views on this in the debate on the Participation Act. It is clear from my speech today that I do have a number of questions. I would also like to come back to the possibility of self-establishment by people with disabilities, but a thorough response by the government can make it possible for me to give a positive advice to my group. Mr. Chairman. I am sorry that I have exceeded my speaking time, but it is an important issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-3.u36	That's why I allowed it.
