ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-tweedekamer-5.u1	Mr. Chairman. You can say whatever you want, you can choose whatever you want, it doesn't matter, because they do what they want. That is the image most people have of Europe. That's right, so far. The Minister will remember the referendum in 2005, which was about the European Treaty, the European Constitution, where two thirds of the people in the Netherlands said no, but the government and two thirds of this Chamber said yes. The first question I ask the Minister is the following. On 6 April 2016, there will be a new referendum on a European treaty, a European agreement with Ukraine. What's the government gonna do with the results? Does the government take the outcome of this referendum seriously? Such a referendum must be well organised. It's a citizens' initiative. In order to organise that referendum on 6 April 2016, the government provided EUR 20 million. The municipalities have to do that. The Vereniging van Nederlandse Gemeenten (VNG) has said that it is really not possible for that money and that it will cost at least 42.2 million. How are we supposed to see that now? Is making far too little money available for this referendum a kind of discouragement policy? Is there going to be fewer polling stations or fewer ballots? Or is the Minister prepared to give enough money to the municipalities so that they can organise a good referendum on 6 April 2016?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. I agree with Mr Van Raak that it is a major and important event in a democracy when a referendum is taking place. This has not often happened in Dutch history. The initiators have now collected sufficient signatures for such a referendum. Mr Van Raak's first question is what the government will do with the results. That is actually already contained in the referendum law. First, we're gonna find out what the turnout is. Of course, the results are being looked at very seriously. If the result gives rise to this, the proposal will be seriously considered again. That's all in the law. The government, like every Dutchman, will follow that law neatly. The second question is what about the money available for the referendum. Indeed, a letter has come from the Association of Dutch Municipalities which states that research shows that elections cost 42 million. These costs are based on the calculations of the Van Beek Commission for Elections as we know them for the Chamber, with a large number of lists of many candidates and a complicated counting process. A referendum is easier by its nature in the electoral process because it is a yes-no question. That's why the cabinet estimates that you don't have to count and process the results of the 42.2 million. That is why a total of 25 million has been made available, amounting to 5 million for the electoral committee and the referendum committee and 20 million for the municipalities. All in all, of course, that is a considerable amount, but once again, elections are also very important in a democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-tweedekamer-5.u3	Every year there is about five billion going from the Netherlands to Europe, so I find it a little embarrassing that we need to talk about money for a campaign here. The minister says it can be much cheaper because you have fewer lists and can be counted faster. That gap between 42.2 million, the amount the municipalities say they need, and the 20 million the government is willing to give, is huge. That has nothing to do with how many people are on lists and how quickly that number can be counted. The only way to organise this referendum with the 20 million is for municipalities to make very substantial cuts in the number of places where people can vote. I can only say that this reeks of a policy of discouragement. Is the Minister prepared to indicate here that municipalities will be given enough money to organise a proper referendum, with enough places to vote, as many places as normal, regular parliamentary elections? I am also very pleased with the Minister's remark that the outcome of the referendum will be taken seriously this time, unlike in 2005. In 2005 there was a high turnout and the Netherlands massively said no, but the government didn't reconsider the decision for a second. She just pushed that constitution through. This has been fatal for people's confidence in politics and certainly in Europe. The government now has an expensive duty to take it seriously this time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-tweedekamer-5.u4	I agree with Mr Van Raak that any referendum is a serious matter for a country and for a government. The cabinet also takes this very seriously. This is also apparent from the amount of 25 million made available. With all due respect, I think Mr Van Raak is bathing about making such a huge amount of taxpayers' money available. The government saw itself faced with an initiative bill that cost money but did not cover it. As Mr Van Raak may know, I have experience in presenting legislative proposals. If these proposals cost money, I had the habit of providing the cover immediately. Now that it is not, the government has taken responsibility, but it is all about taxpayers' money. Then you make a professional assessment of the amount required. The government can well explain why it is reasonable for a referendum to cost less than, for example, Lower Parliamentary elections with far more extensive lists and thus more complex counting procedures. The government has invited the UNG to sit down shortly to see how it has come to its sum and how we have come to our sum. After all, I agree with Mr Van Raak that these elections should simply be easily accessible, but I am really far from saying that 25 million taxpayers' money would be change or that those important elections would not be taken seriously. That's just not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-tweedekamer-5.u5	We throw billions into the Brussels well every year and then a minister here says that a referendum costs money. Yeah, democracy costs money. I would like this minister to consult with the Association of Dutch Municipalities, which has indicated that it is not possible for 20 million. If I have to choose between the minister who says I can, and the UNG, who says I can't, I have more faith in the UNG. The municipalities must organise this. Is the Minister prepared to consult with the VNG, the Association of Dutch Municipalities, to ensure that municipalities have enough money to organise a proper referendum on 6 April?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-tweedekamer-5.u6	I took a look at my neighbour's non-verbal communication, because I already made this commitment. On this point, I will do it again: the cabinet will consult with the VNG.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-tweedekamer-5.u7	That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-tweedekamer-5.u8	I am pleased that the Minister has indicated that he is going to consult with the Association of Dutch Municipalities on the signal she has sent out. Of course democracy costs money; that is absolutely certain. However, I assume that it is also the purpose of this Minister to ensure that the Referendum Act is implemented, that the accessibility of the electoral process is not affected and that the approach of this Minister in the discussion with the VNG will therefore be to ensure that referendums can continue to be held well in the future and that accessibility is not affected.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-tweedekamer-5.u9	I agree with Mrs Voortman that these elections should be open. That is why the government made 25 million available, where, with all due respect, the authors of the bill had not provided the funding. It's all about taxpayers' money.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-tweedekamer-5.u10	I am pleased to hear that the Minister also believes that we cannot just throw this over the fence of the municipality and that there should be a discussion. I would like to hear from the Minister on what time we can be informed about this. It is important that this is properly taken up and that the referendum can begin.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-tweedekamer-5.u11	That agreement requires two agendas, but Mr Plasterk's commitment is to make them for the budgetary treatment of the Ministry of the Interior and Kingdom Relations, which will take place in two weeks' time, and to share their outcome with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-tweedekamer-5.u12	I hope it will also be included in the budget so that it can be included.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-tweedekamer-5.u13	The preparation is of course the most important. Can the Minister promise us that he will ask the General Court after the referendum to identify whether it has been for the money or whether problems arise when a new referendum is being issued? Then we have an objective assessment of whether the money was appropriate to the task assigned to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-tweedekamer-5.u14	The government will evaluate this first experience with the new Referendum Act anyway. On the basis of this evaluation, I propose that the Court itself assess whether or not the General Court is necessary. The Chamber can do that anytime.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-tweedekamer-5.u15	In the run-up to the referendum, the cabinet will, of course, also make its voice heard. I would like to hear whether the cabinet is going to conduct a yes campaign or a campaign to promote participation and how much money it intends to make available.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-tweedekamer-5.u16	It will be clear to Mrs Thieme that the cabinet is in favour of this treaty with Ukraine, as it has positively submitted the treaty with Ukraine to the Chamber. The cabinet has not earmarked large sums for its own campaign, because it is also tax money. Our austerity fits, so here too we will operate economically. In any case, it is clear what our position is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-tweedekamer-5.u17	I give Mrs Thieme the opportunity to ask her second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-tweedekamer-5.u18	So I understand it's going to be a yes campaign. I also note from the Minister's reply that money is being or has been released. The minister just said that the cabinet would make money available for it, but that this would happen in a sober way. I want the Minister to inform the Chamber as soon as he knows how much money is involved. Can he make that promise?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-tweedekamer-5.u19	I am rather surprised at Mrs Thieme's summary. It does help, that non-verbal communication of the Chamber! I did not say at all that the cabinet is going to run a yes campaign with a large pot of money. I would like to confirm this in writing, even if the answer is no different.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-tweedekamer-5.u20	You promised earlier that there would be a letter before the budget debate. It is useful if the figures are in there, or if there are no figures, too, then they can become part of the budget debate. Thank you for your answers, your commitments and your coming to the Chamber. I shall suspend the sitting until 3 p.m. and then begin with the swearing-in of a colleague.
