ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u1	I have received written answers from the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment, Deputy Prime Minister and the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment to questions raised in the first term. These answers will be included in an annex to the Acts of this sitting. (The attachment is recorded at the end of this edition.)
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u2	I would like to welcome the Minister and the Secretary of State. We are in need of the first-term response from the cabinet. Before I give the floor to the Minister, Mr Ulenbelt has a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u3	Mr. Chairman. The site of the UWV has been out for two days. That's a big problem. Mr Van Weyenberg and I asked the Minister yesterday evening to respond to this, but we did not receive that letter. I'd like to know when that letter is coming. If he does not come, I suggest we postpone the debate until we have received it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u4	Let us begin with the first part of your call.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u5	I'll say a few things about it. If necessary, I will send a letter to the Chamber for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u6	That was not Mr Ulenbelt's question. He wants an answer right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u7	In that sense, it is a political problem that there are people who say that the minister is not in control. We are asking for a letter about a malfunction that concerns thousands of people these two days and then the Minister does not even come to Chamber with a reply. "I'll get back to you" isn't enough. I want an explanation as to why that letter is not there and I want to know when it can be there, for example before 8 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u8	I wasn't aware that I was supposed to write a letter on that. For which I apologize. That has become clear to me now, and I will gladly do so. I have prepared a communication on the state of play at the UWV, which I wanted to make in my speech. Hence my offer to inform the Court of Justice in writing if this communication is not enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u9	Then I suggest that the Minister make that announcement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u10	Mr. Chairman. The website has been poorly accessible since yesterday morning. According to information from the UWV, some thousands of revenue returns were received yesterday and today, but many people have not been able to properly pass on their task to the UWV. The income statement can be transmitted from the first of the month, so yesterday. Upon receipt, the UWV calculates and pays the WW benefit. It is therefore the highest priority that this problem should be resolved. The UWV works on this with the software supplier. I'm following this closely. Through the customer contact centre, the UWV website and UWV webcare, beneficiaries are informed about the problems. If the problems cannot be solved in the very short term, the UWV will switch to an emergency scenario. In doing so, the UWV guarantees that everyone has received the WW benefit by the 14th at the latest. Those who have passed on their income are, of course, more likely to receive their benefits. As soon as there is more to report, I will inform the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u11	Then I suggest you tell me now how you intend to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u12	First of all, I would like to thank the Chamber for yesterday's very substantive and lively first term. I enjoyed that. It was about important issues. I can only promise to do my best to get close to that in my response. My answer consists of two parts. The first is about work and employment and the second is about integration and everything you can involve. Then, if you wish to chair, the Secretary of State could discuss a number of other subjects.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u13	She hasn't come for nothing, but go on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u14	She and I are very pleased if she did not come for nothing and get the floor later. I've heard that you've made strict rules, so I'm asking you to be more polite. Mr. Chairman. The cabinet wants more employment. It wants good work and a fair playing field so that everyone also has a chance of getting paid work. We see that the recovery has started and that the labour market is also attracting. Job growth occurred six quarters in a row, with the number of jobs rising by 150.00 in this period. We see the broadcast hours rise just like the number of vacancies. Employers have also expressed the expectation that the labour market will continue to grow in the coming year. Unemployment has fallen by 53.000 people since February 2014, but less quickly than the entire Chamber and Cabinet would like. One of the reasons for this is that many people who were discouraged from the labour market during the crisis are now getting good courage and seeing perspective again. They're checking in again looking for a job. In itself, that's good news. But before people think this is a good news show: no, unemployment is still too high. We see that not everyone who is looking for a job finds that job right away. The scars of a deep economic crisis have not disappeared overnight. Especially vulnerable groups have more difficulty getting to work. We cannot accept that. A job offers income, but also self-esteem, satisfaction and the feeling of belonging. Increased employment is, therefore, and continues to be, a priority of the cabinet. In doing so, we have to zoom in where groups in the functioning of the labour market have the problems and what we can do about them. I can quote all the Members of Parliament who spoke on this matter yesterday. They have spoken about this in different terms. Everyone very much agrees on this. What are you doing to get more jobs? First of all, we need to get the economy back on its feet. The government doesn't do that, but it can create conditions. That's what this cabinet did. The finances are in order and also the capacity to grow. This has been achieved through a number of necessary reforms. Secondly, we have looked at the cost of labour, the burden on labour. It has been seen that next year's plans propose a significant reduction in the burden on labour. Thirdly, there were specific reforms focusing on the labour market. Think of the Work and Security Act and the Participation Act. I also mention laws that affect them, such as the reforms concerning the child regime. Fourthly, specific attention has been paid to groups requiring an additional instrument, such as grants, premium discounts, guidance, matching or training. On all these key points, the Cabinet makes proposals and has already taken steps. I have already mentioned a solid package of legislation, which has been adopted by a large majority in this Chamber and in the other Chamber. That package contained significant reforms. They weren't all funny. Mr Mulder rightly said yesterday that you cannot do it only with popular measures. That is not the feeling I have left, but it was necessary to get things going again. We have also been able to do this by supporting society by working with employers and employees. These changes have been made by a Dutch approach. We are also taking new initiatives to stimulate recovery and increase employment opportunities. 500 million is invested in the low-income advantage. This is specifically aimed at reducing the cost of labour, which is high for low-income people, which means that employers are rehiring people who might otherwise be forced to stand on the streets. 120 million will be made available for guidance from work to work. The customization is coming back. We help older people find jobs and we fight youth unemployment. Thanks to the reduction in charges and purchasing power, 35,000 additional jobs are being deployed. But after a crisis as deep as the economic crisis we have seen, with the double dip, the recovery of the labour market starts more slowly than the growth itself. You can see that there is first investment in existing capacity. First, the hours are extended and temporary workers are recruited. Only then will new vacancies arise. However, you can see it happening. In the forecasts for next year, too, we see a full increase in employment. That's 90,000 people who can find another job. Most of the Chamber supported not only the reform laws but also the specific measures, the additional measures. Sometimes we've experimented by trying out new things. I call it the Action Plan 50PlusWorks. I should also like to mention the approach to youth unemployment. Many in this Chamber have argued for this. It even called for increased financial resources. Mr Mulder, Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Heerma indicated: yes, we supported these measures, but are they going to render them? Are they getting anything? That question is justified. Everyone knows that there are no simple means in an economic crisis. There's no button you can press that brings the orbits down from the sky like magic. We need to look at what has been achieved and what you are doing in the event of a future crisis, which is long overdue, so I say to Mr Van Weyenberg, who can do better. When it comes to employment, it is, of course, about more work, about quantity, but also about quality. We want good work in the Netherlands. We want people to be able to earn their living well, that they appreciate it and that it is carried out under good conditions. We must do what we are good at in the Netherlands: adding value with high labour productivity; quality of work.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u15	I take it the Minister will go much further into these plans later, or was this it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u16	I will certainly go into more detail about the various plans, such as those for the elderly and the sectoral plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u17	The Minister sketches the picture that it's all heading in the right direction. I'm gonna put him in opposition. 600 million has been earmarked for a sector plan, some call it a job plan. There are 11,000 people on the waiting list for a social workshop. Why does that money disappear into a pit that doesn't get a job? The Minister acknowledges that. Why doesn't that money go to people in line to work?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u18	For these sector plans, we have made available money in consultation with the Chamber and the social partners. It is precisely by employers and employees that money has been invested to keep people at work, to retrain them and to guide them from work to work. This money is also intended to prepare people for a future in which the labour market is constantly demanding new things from workers. As a result, there are thousands of people who can go back through years, who keep their jobs, who come home at night from their paid job. That's incredibly worth it. In addition, thousands of young people have started their apprenticeship jobs, a place they would not otherwise have received in these crisis years. In other words, it is necessary to invest in it and not to look away. We must not abandon these sectors. Many sectors in our economy have made such a plan. Energy has been generated in the regions that have worked for this purpose. People have come up with good plans and we have been able to support them with that money.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u19	The Minister's enthusiasm is striking. But he has also heard a lot of criticism in the first term of the Chamber. A minister of employment who doesn't work is a minister who doesn't do what he's set up to do. If you'd built 600 million houses, you'd have jobs. If you'd given the money to a social workshop, you'd have jobs. If you'd put it in isolation, you'd have jobs. Now the whole of the Netherlands has the idea: that Asscher is a nice guy, but the 600 million he burned. That money didn't get a job! Why didn't that go to the social workshops? Why aren't there any houses built out of them?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u20	I have just outlined that there are indeed more jobs now that the economic recovery is there. In the last six quarters, that was 150,000 jobs. Next year, that growth will continue. These are real jobs created in the economy, in the market sector. These jobs are created because companies see music again. They have confidence in the future again. They invest, grow and hire people again. They're real jobs for real people, but we couldn't wait for that. We have also invested in people who were sitting in the boot seat, in older workers who might have had to get out. That has been looked at and investment has been made in their development. They are sometimes escorted from one job to another. I think this is incredibly important. This has given these people a chance to contribute to the labour market for years to come. But I fully agree with you: many more jobs are needed and I have just come to that in my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u21	Yesterday we had a political debate with the spokesman of a coalition group on reports. I want to focus on the numbers today. We haven't been able to really help all those jobseekers. The Minister will deal in detail with all job plans in the near future. 600 million has been released. To date, about one third of this has been used; two thirds have not. 300 million have been made available to combat youth unemployment. A sixth has been published and the rest has now been withdrawn. Of the placement fees for the elderly, only one third of the desired number has been realized. I say this with disappointment. The Minister speaks passionately about these plans, but does he agree with me that this has not become what we had hoped for together?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u22	If we spend public money in a time of scarcity and austerity, I think it is very important that we spend it strictly and economically. There were strict demands. We thought that was wise, too. We were not going to do this if we did not invest from the companies themselves. That was a sign that those companies believed in it. We were not going to do this if there was not a good plan, based on labour market expectations. We were not going to do this if the conditions were not met. For example, we have stretched the conditions for young people, partly after a good suggestion from Mr Van Weyenberg, but not just to make up the money. I'm still in favour of that. The money has ended up where we wanted it, namely young people, the elderly and people who have been accompanied from work to work. I don't think it's appropriate at this time to spend money per se because you've spent it. We've learned things. I agree with Mr Van Weyenberg. You will encounter problems that you have not seen before, as has been pointed out in the Chamber, for example in all these premium reduction schemes. We have them for the elderly, for the disabled and for young people. Small businesses make little or no use of this. That also makes sense, because they can't cash it in. What are we going to do about it? We have come up with a law to solve these cash-in problems. Congratulations to Mr Dijkgraaf, who has repeatedly called for attention to be paid to this. This makes it attractive for smaller companies to make use of these grant schemes to give a younger or older person a chance. That's right, we've been thrifty. We have not given away the money as has sometimes happened in the past. Indeed, I would have liked it if more people had helped with it. It is our job to look closely at this and make sure that you do better in the future, for example with such a law to solve the problem of cashing for small businesses.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u23	The Minister knows that everyone agrees with him that money needs to be spent cheaply, but still. We had not reserved that money for nothing at the bottom of the crisis. Due to delays, perhaps bureaucracy, for all kinds of reasons, sometimes because the recovery was not possible, I thought that was a wonderful observation made by the Court of Auditors; two thirds of the money today is apparently not used in those job plans to help all those people who are looking for work or who fear for their jobs. I would expect the Minister to say: in addition to all the lessons, that is not what we had hoped for. I don't quite understand why he finds it so difficult to take those words in his mouth.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u24	I fully agree with Mr Van Weyenberg. That is precisely what I indicated with the example of the problem of cashing out. Of course, it would have been much better if those smaller companies had been able to benefit from this subsidy. SMEs are our country's job engine. There's a lot of new work there. If SMEs had previously benefited from these premium discount schemes, more people would have benefited from them. Why did I say that there is no one who does not want to deal with money cheaply, as Mr Van Weyenberg said? I do not know whether this is always the case, by definition, or whether it has always been the case. I think it is an important starting point that if we take so many difficult measures to put our finances in order, we do spend money on employment, but we spend it very precisely. We don't look away when things go so badly economically. Like Mr Van Weyenberg, I would have liked us to have moved on, that unemployment had been lower and that it had been faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u25	The Minister has rightly received EUR 600 million in a very difficult time. He mentions a few small points which he later says he should have done differently. The SP has said: had it invested in something else, for example in social workshops. We have said: use it for business transfers. The Minister says no. We have said: use it for payment of wages in the event of illness. The Minister says no. What does the Minister think, looking back at all the opinions of all Members of Parliament, that he should have done to reduce unemployment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u26	That is a very good question from Mr Öztürk. The example I just gave is very important. I still think that for many employers the threshold is high to employ someone with benefits. We have come up with good instruments for this, and money has been allocated for it, but the larger companies have been able to make easier use of them. I think that is an important point. A second important point is that we have reduced the age limit in the context of older people's unemployment. A third point concerns the conditions for the use of the youth bonus discount and the hours criteria. It is right that there is an hour criterion. You don't want this money to be used to finance just mini-transmit jobs. But maybe we could have gotten more out of it if we'd lowered it earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u27	There was some sort of plan to help small entrepreneurs pay the money to the employees in case of illness. Doesn't Minister Asscher afterwards think that if he had carried out that plan, he would have helped more entrepreneurs to put more people to work than by having a bus with an ex-CDA room member drive around the country with nice pictures, nice items on TV and nice openings?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u28	I think you should always be elegant with ex-Room members of every party. It was, however, an occasional money issue. It was a one-off game and we wanted to achieve as much as possible for employment. Method one was: make sure there are good plans, which really contain an analysis of the labour market. This was true, for example, of the construction, of the transport sector and of what is going to happen in the care sector. In those plans you saw that, for example, a lot of people could actually find work in the care sector, but that they needed to be retrained. A second point was the requirement not only to use public money, but to ensure that companies would also finance themselves. Of course you do not solve pay for illness with an occasional amount. That's when you really mess people up. Sick pay is a major issue. I believe that this will require a future reform of the labour market. I'll get right on that. Several parties spoke yesterday in the debate on this subject and it has also been discussed much earlier in this Chamber. I think there are opportunities to take steps in the coming period. I made a proposal, but there are disadvantages. I recognize that, too. Mrs Schut has also made a proposal. There's no downside to that and it's no-regret, so I'm gonna go ahead with that anyway. Yesterday, Mr Heerma made a proposal which I would like to deal with. But it is not a question of a one-off and incidental amount. It is much more fundamental, because it is really about the design of the labour market. So you couldn't do that with that money.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u29	The Minister continues his reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u30	I told you, it's about quantity, but it's also about quality of work. We want good work, too. We want people to be proud of their work and to be appreciated for their work. This is not just a matter for the Netherlands. We want that to be the case in Europe as well. We want a fair opportunity at work and a fair playing field. We do not want false competition and not truck drivers who look forward to East Europeans sleeping far below the price in the parking lot and taking over the work. We do not want shadowy constructions, in which simply good work is done via a Christmas tree to e.g. by the Philippines, with a Cypriot employer who is still active in the Netherlands. No, honest work means creating a level playing field on which Dutch companies can compete well and on which Dutch workers and jobseekers have a fair chance of getting a job. That is why this is an ambition for the Dutch Presidency of the European Union, which is about to begin. We have also taken a number of major steps in recent years. Unanimous we were in this Chamber about the Law approach fakes constructions. That was important, and it's starting to work now. It must have much more effect in the coming years. Another step was the enforcement directive in Brussels, which strengthens the question of how to deal with underpayment. It is translated into legislation and comes to this Chamber. We've got more work to do. I promised to send the Chamber a note on the minimum wage for the budget. I couldn't do that. However, this raises the question of the sustainability of the minimum hourly wage, the piece wage and certainly the minimum youth wage. I followed the discussion on this yesterday breathless. All the elements that are important in this discussion were discussed. This has to go to this room next year. And of course the following subject will also be discussed: how do we deal with payroll? How do we ensure that this Chamber's motion on equal working conditions between payroll and other forms of work is legally secured? This subject will come to this Chamber next spring. This all helps with the quality of work. Another element in this is that people need to be able to combine their work with their private lives. So I am proud and grateful for the improvements that we have been able to make despite the difficult time. These improvements were made to the Labour and Care Act, to the leave arrangements and to the childcare allowance, after many years of scarcity. But they were also there with the more specific leave arrangements. Good, concrete proposals have also been made from this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u31	The Minister says that next year the youth wage proposal will be sent to the Chamber. Excellent. Is that accompanied by a CPB transfer?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u32	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u33	That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u34	The minister's talking about payroll. I drew attention yesterday to the Dutch Food and War Authority, where a number of payrollers with an indefinite contract are still fired. I know the Minister doesn't want that. He even promised they'd be hired. Now, even today, I heard the signal that today's resignation has become about final and people are going to have to clear out their desks. The answers we got to our questions in the written set I found lean. They only say: it is up to the ministers responsible. I would like today to call on the Minister to do so, perhaps later on, by motion, to let us know for the second time what is going on with the Dutch Food and Consumer Authority and simply to ensure that the people who work there with a payroll contract can remain in service for an indefinite period, as promised.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u35	I understand that you are making that call now, Mr Van Weyenberg. You said you wanted to make a call today, but this was that call.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u36	I see this as supporting my appeal by you, Mr. Chairman. What else can a man wish for?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u37	That's generously explained.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u38	Mr President, thanks to your speech, I hear an appeal. In that written set there is a little more than just that we are not talking about it. In that written set there is the main rule, reference is made to the ukaze of Blok about how to deal with it and it is stated that I could not judge this individual case last night. It also says that I handed the case over to the colleague responsible for this department. That's not shoving off. This is a responsibility for the organization that rests there. I heard the call. I see the people in the back, the officials, heard the call, too. They'll pass it on. I can't guarantee now that I have a conclusive answer to that during this debate. It's gonna pass. But as soon as I have an answer, I'll share it with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u39	That's good. At DUO we filed a motion and it was resolved. I know that's what the Minister wants. If we do not have the answer yet, I will table a motion in the second term to encourage the Minister, with his colleagues, to ensure that these employees and people at a number of other organizations in the Empire where this plays, get what she has been promised: a permanent job.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u40	I think it is right to comment on the various speeches that were made yesterday on what is actually needed for the future of the labour market. We have implemented a number of important reforms, but the labour market is obviously not finished. The world around us is changing lightning fast. We see great effects of technologicalization, of the robots. We see the globalisation going on. We also see an increasing demand for resilience, flexibility and capacity to change for the workforce. I think an important question for the Chamber and for the Cabinet is what we can do to get our workforce ready for that. The 21st century is really going to ask for something different than the traditional changes we have seen through technical progress in the last century. The next generation, too, deserves to do what is necessary to ensure that we can benefit from it in the near future, that there is employment in the Netherlands and that, moreover, this is employment of sufficient quality. The preparation requires something from the organisation of our social security, but perhaps requires more from ourselves. More than ever, we will have to continue to train and retrain your culture in the labour market, to establish it in all companies and in all organisations. This requires a change in thinking and also a change in the way employers and employees work in this area: developing knowledge and skills. We've known it for a while, but technology makes it clear with great urgency that this has to be a permanent process. With educational vouchers, with experiments on demand finance and with the introduction of lifelong learning credit, we are taking a number of steps to strengthen that learning culture. It is particularly important that not only these instruments become visible, but that employers and employees continue to do so in the various collective agreements and in the various organisations. For this reason, I should like to make a number of the proposals I have put forward in a letter on how to deal with the budget from the sector plans that have been left over. Think also of the bridge-WW. This is a new instrument within the framework of the sectoral plans, but appropriate to a modern labour market. It's about helping people who want to retrain to an existing job. Yes, we also see the number of vacancies increasing. With high unemployment and an increasing number of vacancies, you know that there must be opportunities to retrain people. The bridge WW is also opened outside those sector plans. It will be a generally accessible scheme. Training vouchers are also made available to enable people who are unemployed and for whom there are opportunities in the labour market to enter the labour market. Among other things, Anne-Wil Lucas made a plea for that. In the event of interruption, we were just talking about pay-as-you-go payments in case of illness. We also need to look at the risks experienced by an employer in deciding whether or not to hire someone. That was discussed yesterday in the input. What difference does it make whether or not you're giving someone that chance, whether or not you're giving them that job? I would like to speak about the elderly for whom this is also very clear, but the issue of pay-as-you-go in the event of illness is generally the issue of the labour market. I have heard it all too often in the halls over the last few years, especially from small entrepreneurs. Employers have an obligation to pay at least 70% of the wages of sick workers for up to two years. Employers and employees also have an obligation under the Port Guard Improvement Act to ensure that a new employee re-integrates within or outside its own organisation as soon as possible. This is particularly felt by small employers as an uninfluenceable risk. They are more difficult to anticipate a disease than large companies and often have fewer opportunities to re-integrate the sick worker. And although they are often insured, they still care for a sick employee for two years. Mr Heerma outlined in a new plan how to deal with this, but also Mr Van Weyenberg, Mrs Schouten and Mr Dijkgraaf expressed their concern about this issue. It also fits in with Mr Mulder's speech on what is stopping employers now. It is not a new discussion in this cabinet period and in thinking about the labour market. I had to think of a 1904 proposal by then Minister Kuyper to introduce a general compulsory insurance against the monetary consequences of illness such as loss of pay. A number of principles were discussed in yesterday's debate. These include the effects on employment, the effects on the reintegration of a sick worker and the consequences on the income of that sick worker. It is also a question of the impact on the burden burden, but also of the impact on the differences between types of workers. In this context, Mr Heerma outlined the distinction betweenzzp'ers and permanent workers. I also see the disadvantages of the design of the proposal presented by Mr Heerma yesterday, particularly with regard to incentives and the possible effects on employment and the burden. I think, however, that there is every reason to accept the suggestion which was made widely yesterday, namely to submit this proposal to the ESC. The Economic and Social Committee must start work on the Ester motion from the First Chamber on long-term unemployment. I dare to say this because I saw that yesterday, especially for their actions, employers and employees reacted remarkably mildly to Mr Heerma's suggestion. Of course I see all kinds of bears on the road, but that is why I indicated just in the case of interruption that I will continue with the no-regret measures to get more out of the two-track policy. There's real music in there. I will also continue to prepare the cabinet suggestion to enable a collective second year with an opt-in for small businesses. I owe Mr Dijkgraaf another answer in this respect: that limit was chosen because it would cover 84% of businesses and would create a relatively limited burden. Every frontier remains arbitrary, but I have the feeling that in those very small companies with less than ten employees this risk is felt the most. I recognise immediately that this proposal does not solve all the problems, but is a step forward. In addition to criticism, I have also received many positive reactions from small companies in particular. Let's move that forward in preparation. If I continue to work on the two tracks, and ask the ESC to look at the Ester motion at a pace and to involve Mr Heerma's thoughts in this regard, we have the social agreement 2004 with agreements on disease and super-statutory arrangements in a collective agreement, on its limitations and on its implementation, I can see at least an opportunity, a possibility for me to make new agreements that might provide for this reform of substance. This enables you to meet the wishes and to employ more people, whose income is properly protected when they become ill, and make reintegration more effective without creating an extreme collective burden. If it could be within those lines, then that's an opportunity we should try to seize.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u41	Anyone who quotes Abraham Kuyper will automatically call Mr Heerma to the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u42	Mr President, you understand correctly. I thank the Minister for this commitment. I also stated yesterday in my term that I would like the proposal to break the deadlock, as I put it on behalf of my group yesterday, to be linked to the Ester motion, which was widely supported in the First Chamber. I believe that this motion calls for the opinion to be delivered in the summer. The Minister would therefore like to hand it over to the ESC and therefore stick to the deadline mentioned in the Ester motion for a resolution to ask for the opinion so that we could possibly discuss it next autumn if the ESC came to something.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u43	Actually, I'd like a little bit faster. I would ask the ESC to report on this before the summer. Then I can go back to the Chamber and show what is possible with regard to, for example, the super-statutory collective agreements. Then if we agree, we can come up with proposals on Princess Day. This file's been there a long time. I've got a bit of a goatee out of it, too. I'd really like to take it one step further, if it can't be with a big step, then with a small step. Let's try to finish the combination of the three tracks I just outlined before the summer. Of course, we also depend on whether the ESC can deliver this, but if it can in the summer, why couldn't it be before the summer? This is a dangerous statement, but I'm really talking about social partners, aren't I?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u44	That's very good. By the way, the Ester motion says: for the summer. That is in line with this answer. That's very good. By the way, today, after yesterday's SME Netherlands and the FNV indicated that they wanted to take it up, Stichting ZZP Nederland also indicated that they wanted to see something in the proposal and that they would like to work out it further. So even from azzp angle, starting with a positive response. I understand that the Minister says that the ESC should also look at the doubts and doubts that there are. They were also widely expressed by colleagues here yesterday. That is what the ESC has to look at, and that makes sense. So all the elements proposed yesterday will be deposited with the ESC to look into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u45	For example, Mrs Schouten explicitly asked whether you should not also work with premium differentiation. In fact, you want the system to work in such a way that employers or sectors that do a great deal to prevent illness and to re-integrate sick workers are rewarded for it. Remember: the current system, with its disadvantages, has led to a massive reduction in influx into disability schemes and much more investment has been made in preventing illness and re-integrating workers. That's a big profit. I don't think it was Kuyper. I think it was De Geus who did it. It is the art to hold on to that profit, but also to do something about the real disadvantage that employers experience because of the care for those two years.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u46	It is good news that the Minister wants to do something about the super-statutory collective agreement provisions in the event of illness. We hear that's what he wants to do. What specific ambitions does the Minister have to reduce and abolish these super-statutory provisions?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u47	The 2004 cabinet to which I just referred, of which I believe the VVD was also part, made agreements with employers and employees on how to deal with the super-legal part. 75% of collective agreements have remained within these agreements. So 25% isn't, but 75% is. It would not be appropriate, then, to say one-sidedly: I shall abolish it. In that case, I would violate the agreement of the cabinet at the time, at least in relation to that 75%. On the other hand, if you approach it from the opportunities that lie ahead and the concerns that everyone feels about employment and getting people back into employment, there is, of course, a story to tell, namely: can you make new agreements about that? Is it possible to change the arrangement? Is it possible, for example, to invest more in training again? I was just talking about what robots are going to ask of us and then with the social partners in a set of new agreements, which are also about pay-as-you-go payments in case of illness, to reduce the cost of work and thus increase employment? I'm not going to burden that conversation with this and that. That would also be very strange, because it is agreements that employers and employees make with each other. With Mr Mulder, however, I am tasting an opportunity here to do something about the burden of labour. We are already doing this directly through the Tax Plan, we are doing this indirectly through the employment discount. That's what the people in the wallet........................................................................................................................................................................................ I think this is also very interesting for the social partners.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u48	We are also interested in what the Minister wants to achieve. Then we can say here: Minister, well done. Or: there's another tooth. Can the Minister tell us what we can take care of him if he comes up with this plan before the summer?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u49	It will not be a plan of this minister alone, because it is really about employers and employees together. Well, then I guess I'm gonna be able to whisper on the chest that I did a good job, but that wouldn't be fair. I want to give the credits to those who are really gonna do it. Those are the employers and the workers in this country. But I also have an opinion. I think it would be very good if, in these talks, we could come to a new deal, a new deal, and a new rhythm that could further this aspect of the labour market, this reform. Everyone sees all the bears on the road and all the things you have to take into account, but I'd like to go for that. That is why I made use of Mr Heerma's suggestion and the motion in the First Chamber to pass it on to the Economic and Social Council. I can tell from the reactions that the social partners also want something. That is not so strange either, because they see the same challenge for the labour market as you and I. They also want more jobs. They also want people to come to work. So yes, I think we should be very ambitious in that. But no, of course it is not for me to prescribe what social partners are going to meet, especially after 75% of these social partners have done properly what the cabinet asked for in 2004.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u50	I am pleased that the Minister is asking the ESC for advice. Is the Minister also prepared, within the framework he outlines, to take the element of the relationship between working time and the financial responsibility of employers?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u51	There are several instruments for defining working hours and financial relations with the employer. You can see that when you make the transition fee. You can also see that we have moderated it for the older employee. I believe that a built-up responsibility for working hours is technically complex and that there are also serious questions. But let me put it this way: I didn't want to tie the ESC to what he can and can't find. I believe that the ESC can also make up the objections that we can make up here. The ESC also took note of this debate. He also takes note of the research that has been done here in recent years. So if we were to come to the conclusion that there is a profit in this, I would, of course, be open to it. Even if the ESC comes up with something for the summer, the cabinet itself will find something of that. I hope that will reassure the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u52	Of course, it is also the question of how it ends up with the ESC. I assume the Minister's going to make an advisory request. I would like this element to be included, not in the prescriptive sense of "it has to be done," but to take a serious look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u53	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u54	There are, of course, cases of employers who employ a person for one month and have to pay for twelve years. Those two years under the current system in which wages are guaranteed, I get it. But that ten years after that, the price is pushing up. I would be very grateful if we could take a serious look at this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u55	I'm going to breed well on how I submit that application. I'll share it with the Chamber before I put it in the mailbox. I think Mr Dijkgraaf recognizes that there is also a moral element. People do not choose whether they become ill on the first day or on the two thousandth day of their work. That seems to me to be just as much an element to go with. I also think that Mr Dijkgraaf thinks that at least the protection of the worker should not depend on whether you are on duty for a day or not. However, from the point of view of the employer, I understand very well why he is asking this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u56	The Minister continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u57	When talking about opportunities and employment, it is also good to think about the possibilities of working across borders. Mrs. Nijkerken did the same yesterday. Precisely because the supply of job seekers at the moment, especially in many border regions, is greater than the demand in the Netherlands, I recognise the importance of taking advantage of the opportunities offered by cross-border work. At the moment, a work mediation plan across borders is being assessed in my ministry. It is a national initiative in which all labour market regions at the border with Belgium and Germany have worked together, with the aim of guiding hundreds of people who are now unemployed across the border to work. I think it's a very promising initiative. With this broad plan for the border region of the Netherlands, we want to make concrete work on the mediation and guidance of job seekers towards promising occupations across the border. This has the support of all seven border provinces, including Limburg, and of trade unions, employers' organisations, VNG and UWV. I have high hopes of that. This is in line with Mrs Nijkerken's plea yesterday. The parties have requested EUR 5 million in co-financing and are prepared to contribute EUR 5 million themselves. A total of 10 million will be made available by this route. This is separate from the initiatives I have taken together with my Belgian colleague, Kris Peeters, in the Benelux context, to remove obstacles to cross-border work.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u58	I specifically spoke yesterday about the Pentasz approach. That approach is very concrete in hiring people. That's what they do there. They've got a guy who's just gonna go into the German labour market and get jobs. That person intercedes people one-on-one to work. To what extent is the plan that the Minister is talking about now, that is fine, not another place that is just being discussed, but a place where hands actually come to carry out the work? So don't talk, just do it!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u59	Since the parties put EUR 5 million in it, they will not just want to talk about it. Of course, Mrs Nijkerken's plea sounded like music to my ears, also because it is developed and supported from Limburg. Limburg is one of the parties to this plan. I think it is very likely that this approach can be part of that plan. I think Mrs Nijkerken's suggestion is extremely promising. I like that, because things that work should not only be done in Limburg, but throughout the border region. I have already said a few things about the employment of older people. That was also discussed yesterday. Partly this has to do with other issues that we have discussed here, partly more specific. Older workers face prejudice, costs and perceived risks. They don't get sick at all more often, but when they get sick, they are often longer sick. The Chamber has challenged me to do more for the elderly. I have not for nothing sent a letter announcing that I would work with the social partners on an action plan to combat older people's unemployment. Mr Mulder said that you cannot do this only with popular measures. You also have to think out of the box. You also have to think about things that help, but not be fun right away. He gave a few examples. He said, "The CPB says you should actually think about the reward of the elderly." In reply to the written questions, I said that I was open to that. That should not be taboo, in fact, many older unemployed people have said to me and to the official bodies that they would be willing to work for a lower income than they had previously earned. I think it should be customized. It would be wrong for us here in the Chamber to decide that all the elderly would suddenly have to earn less, just because of their age. In the Trêves room, I sit next to Minister Kamp. He's in his 60s. I can't tell him Friday that he's gonna make less money because he happens to be over 60. However, we can achieve a great deal with tailor-made work in this area. Mr Mulder also quoted a suggestion from the Central Planning Office, namely to reduce the WW for the elderly. I have already made it clear that I do not think that is a good idea. Why not? Because I don't feel that older jobseekers need an extra incentive and they are relaxed waiting for benefits. No, no, no, no, no, no. They're just applying for an interview. They want a chance. The problem is not that the benefit is too high, but that they do not get a job. I therefore believe that reducing the benefit is a way of punishing people who are doing a great deal of their best. So I don't think that's a good suggestion. In addition, it is about structural things in the labour market, such as pay-as-you-go payments in the event of illness. If we reduce that risk, this was rightly argued yesterday by many Members of Parliament, the opportunity for older people to work is also greater. Yesterday we also talked about the Work and Security Act. I would also like to put the following in the window. In the old system there were extra high discharge costs due to age. A discharge fee was sometimes a factor three to four times more expensive, just because of someone's age. That factor has been removed. In the long run, that doesn't mean that you're gonna have a chance of getting an older person on the job in five months.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u60	127 000 elderly people are unemployed for more than a year. That's a big problem. The Minister referred to the Central Planning Bureau. That said, current policies are not sufficiently effective. The Minister announced that he would come up with a new plan to tackle older people's unemployment in consultation with the social partners. Yesterday, I said that it is sometimes difficult to deal with this Minister for concrete purposes. My group wants him to provide the action plan with concrete targets and have it passed on to the Central Planning Bureau so that we can see what it will yield.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u61	I think it is a very good idea to stick concrete objectives to the measures we will adopt. That seems to me to be necessary and important. A second is whether you should submit it to the Central Planning Bureau to pass it on, because that often looks more at structural effects. After all, we have an urgent problem here, which we want to solve quickly. But I'm open to it. Let's agree that I make the plan and foresee concrete goals. Then, together with the Chamber, we will see who can watch and say as an independent mathematician: we will find this and we do not think that is a good idea. I'm fine with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u62	The VVD wants a calculated plan to see if it has any effect. We want this to happen as soon as possible in the spring. Can we do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u63	That plan is coming. How we will pass the effects on, we need to be careful about that, because there are structural measures and measures that are aimed at the problem now. I am very open to presenting this to the Chamber with an assessment, smartly formulated, to say it in modern management language.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u64	And do it in Dutch?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u65	That means you're providing the plan with checkable targets. I think that is why it was Mr Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u66	Sure, but now the people who watch with us understand it too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u67	Thank you for this sympathetic reminder. I have just said half a word about the UWV on Mr Ulenbelt's point of order. He's asked a few questions. I'd like to take care of that right now. After that, I will go further into the labour market in general. He asked what we're gonna do about it. We had a VAO on this yesterday and we had several debates on it. With the UWV I continue to work on the improvement of the execution. Through the consultations, the regular P&C products and the execution tests we discuss this progress. Just to keep the balance and the checks-and-balances right, I have installed an audit committee at the UWV in recent years. The General Court is closely monitoring implementation. Through the accountability investigation, I receive annual information on this. Nevertheless, we have all seen that in recent times there has been much to do in the media about the performance of the UWV. It's important to keep a sharp eye on this. I have already announced a plan to deal with the delays with the re-evaluations, which will come to the Chamber in the spring. I will ask BIT, the instrument resulting from the Elias Committee, to look at the ICT projects and advise on the ICT multi-annual programme that the UWV will implement. The Court can rest assured that I am constantly informed of the state of play with this and with other matters. It is indeed bitter that there is a malfunction at the UWV right now, not because of the budget treatment but because of the December month. We're working hard to solve that quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u68	That's good to hear. In the written reply, the Minister also addressed my question about guidance from the UWV and the importance of early diagnosis. I have indicated that it would be good if people could choose their own guidance. For example, one might prefer digital guidance and another would prefer face-to-face guidance. I do not see that in the written reply. Can the Minister indicate what he's up against?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u69	That's right. We choose to look in close consultation with the UWV at what it is now, with its experience and the large number of stocks it is talking about, knows who is actually at risk of long-term unemployment. In that group we invest with more personal guidance. Some people want a course or a personal conversation, but can get back to work in a very short time. This means that they benefit less than others, who may not know that about themselves at all because the blow of unemployment is still echoing. With them, the UWV identifies a risk because of their competences, age, profile and training and is going to provide more intensive guidance. It is important for everyone that the service is geared to human standards, which take into account the fact that people have had a very nasty experience. Otherwise, you won't end up there. But I think it is also necessary that we use the extra resources, the extra personal guidance, as cleverly as possible. So you can take advantage of the fact that there is a lot of knowledge from the guidance, but that you also have a wealth of data by working with those digital systems, allowing you to help people faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u70	I have the feeling that this response will bring us a little closer together. But what I was concerned about was that the person himself should have an important voice in that. I can imagine that there are people who don't want to be stuck in their necks all the time and who much prefer digital guidance. Does the Minister share my view that the person's voice has to weigh heavily in the choice of the kind of guidance that someone needs?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u71	It's playing along, of course. People need to be helped with the right attitude. Part of the work is often motivating people in the right way, giving them confidence to re-present themselves in the labour market. But in the case that Mrs Voortman sketches, where someone doesn't feel like it, my tendency would be right to go after it. Because if there are opportunities for that person, it is better for everyone if those opportunities are seized. It'll always be a combination. I think it is wise to use these resources as efficiently and effectively as possible. Of course, this plays a role in what is effective for the person himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u72	The Minister continues his story. Am I far off when I think you're ready for the block on integration and refugees?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u73	I'm sure you're not far off, but you're not exactly hitting it either. I wanted to say something about collective agreements and seasonal work. That took up a large part of the debate yesterday, so it would be very strange if I didn't say anything about it now. Those are the two points of employment that I wanted to deal with.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u74	The Minister has just said that he would go into the youth unemployment action plan very extensively, the elderly action plan and the job plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u75	In the meantime, I have said quite a lot about this in the case of interruption. So I didn't want to do that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u76	I'm sorry to hear that. I have the picture, perhaps it is good for the Minister that we have plans in place for which more than EUR 1 billion was available in total, but where the results are lacking. I'd like to talk to the Minister about that. I would have expected to be here with Mr Mulder, but he will remain. Maybe he'll come. I am going to ask the Minister to go into this in detail, because I still have a lot of questions about how that instrument could not have delivered what we had all hoped for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u77	It was not Mr Mulder, but Mr Öztürk, who asked a few very sharp questions about it, which I answered as well as I could. I think that was a very open debate. In that I indicated that you must be careful with these resources. Mr Van Weyenberg confirmed that. You need to see what's effective and you need to learn along the way. Learning also means that, if you see, for example, that small businesses do not use it, you have to change the law for that. In addition, yesterday Mr Van Weyenberg asked whether you could not do more to learn from the use of all these instruments for a possible future crisis. I'm positive about that. Let's do that. We've agreed on evaluations of the sector plans themselves. But I also believe that it will have to be done together with EZ and that it will be useful to set up such a committee so that you can learn lessons again if you need to. But I have really answered the questions about this, both in writing and here orally, as well as I have done without too much speaking. That is not what the Chamber is asking for at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u78	The resultant thing is that, while we have 600,000 unemployed, we just didn't spend two thirds of the money. I would like to discuss this with the Minister much more deeply. What happened? Why did we have to draw this up in the case of youth unemployment from a rule in the budget? I think that is relevant when we talk about a major social problem with so many unemployed people. To be honest, I would have expected some of my colleagues to agree, but apparently that is not the case. I have a lot of questions and I note that in this way we are very brief about this debate, which was even the reason for Mr Mulder's inadequateness. Apparently, some people think that's a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u79	It's what it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u80	I am so raised that the importance you attach to an issue cannot be measured solely by how long you talk about it. I would remind you of my reply on youth unemployment. I understand that Mr Van Weyenberg is high, because it is high for me too. I have responded in detail to the question of whether any information has been provided. Are employers aware of the possibility? Has anything been done about the young people? In the answer you will hear a laundry list of things that have been done. There has been communication with the sectors, with the social partners, through the UWV, through the labour market regions. Young people have been given flyers about the possibility to send them with their application. Despite this and despite the fact that we have extended the scheme in the summer, there has been insufficient use of it. I just went into that. I believe that we must do everything we can to ensure that we reduce youth unemployment further, but you cannot say that I or the rest of the Chamber do not think that is an important issue because I wanted to talk about collective agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u81	No, but the observation is that with very high expectations and a lot of money, a lot has remained on the shelf, which I think we should see together that it is a disappointment. I note after this debate...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u82	Isn't this something for your second term? What is your question to the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u83	That's what I'm getting at, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. The reason for this debate was Mr Mulder's incompetence. I note that it simply did not become what we expected. I regret that the Minister does not simply want to draw that conclusion here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u84	I think we have been kept together to do everything we can to bring the goal of more employment and more people to work closer. In doing so, I have outlined the general policy of the cabinet to stimulate the growth capacity of the economy. I referred to the specific labour market policy and its reforms. We provide for a reduction of charges and we have specific tools to help vulnerable groups further. If an instrument does not deliver enough, it does not relieve us of the duty of thinking about whether we can use it more sharply, or whether we should add another instrument. That is what we have done with each other over the past few years. This has always been done with very strong support from the Chamber, at least from Mr Van Weyenberg himself. We are always in the process of tightening up and making use of the instruments. It was he who asked if we were doing enough information. That's why I just gave you that whole laundry list. I think there is nothing wrong with using such a debate to discuss what else we can do. That's what the Chamber did yesterday. What more can we do to bring closer to this great goal of more jobs and less unemployment, which everyone is in favour of?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u85	One of the methods the Minister intends to use to combat youth unemployment is the active call on young people, i.e. the active call on young people. That appeals to me; I think that is a good thing. At the same time, I see a problem, because there are more and more young people who do not want to be found and choose to opt out because of the cost sharing standard. I'd like to hear from the Minister how he sees it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u86	This concerns young people who often no longer live with their parents and are often in the margins of society. I have heard a lot in recent times about the people working according to this approach and calling the young people concerned in vans with compulsory education officials. Those kids don't say anything about the cost-sharing standard. Those who say that they are written out of their education and do not know how to get back there. They say, "I had a job, but it didn't work, and then I stopped. These kids are about to get caught in their necks. I respect the debate that is taking place, including with the Secretary of State, on the advantages and disadvantages of the cost sharing standard, but there is something really different going on here. This is about young people who, without a diploma, often for more than 23 years, fall out of the box and sometimes disappear from the official bodies of the radar. We can of course say that we will have no problem because these young people do not apply for benefits, but those young people are 23 years old, they have to work for 44 or 45 years, they have no training, they are not on an internship or they are in a group of friends in the same situation. As a society, we have a huge problem if we do not go for it. That's what that approach is about. We have to. I also talked to the guys who come back to work through the Burger King, go back to school for another day and think they're gonna get their MBO degree. They have a life ahead of them of exploiting opportunities. The discussions with these young people were not about the cost-sharing standard.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u87	In both situations, young people are at risk of getting out of the picture. The Minister's example concerns people who do not work and cannot get into training. In my example, that is what this is all about. Apart from the cost sharing standard, I do think there is a problem with young people who are at risk of getting out of the picture because municipalities cannot find those young people. If the Minister says he doesn't want to meet the cost-sharing standard, how does he intend to solve this problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u88	By working very practically with five municipalities. We see that a number of municipalities are very active in this area. Amsterdam deserves a compliment in this respect. For years there has been an active approach to early school leaving. That is where the approach has now been combined, so that is where the young people are going in a van and then they are being taken out of that situation. In the meantime, 500 young people who have been in such a situation without purpose have been returned to work or to school. It is very practical that these five municipalities look at what works best and then ensure that more young people are reached with this approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u89	I think the Minister is far too positive about the job plans. We saw a few days ago at Nieuwsuur that the minister spoke in 2013 about "jobs." Slowly this was replaced by "sector plans." The Minister says that we must evaluate the policy. I think the lesson should be that if there is another crisis, we should not do it this way. This approach is not enough. So let us spend the money differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u90	It is precisely the VVD that said when making the plans: do not use all the money to create jobs now, but also use it for training, leading work to work, sustainable employability and making people resilient to the labour market. And see, that's what happened, but the VVD is now saying that she's disappointed and that she'd rather have a Uylian job plan afterwards. I find that strange. Let us name the good things, but also the learning points, and let us take the evaluation seriously. If there are better possibilities, then I am the first to implement them, but let us not lose sight of the goal. The goal is also to ensure that the people who have a job keep that job. They should not receive benefits. When they come out of work at night, they must be proud to join the potatoes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u91	It was presented as a job plan. Extra jobs. The VVD agreed to this because it was a compromise. The lesson must be: don't do this. It feels good, you're doing a good job, but don't make a Den Uyl job plan. This plan fits in with the list of Den Uyl-Melkert-Asscher. Don't do it, but just pump the money into tax relief. This leads to additional growth. That must be today's lesson.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u92	I was just giving Mr Öztürk the lesson that you have to bribe with occasional money to achieve things. And the lesson that with an occasional tax reduction you do not create so many jobs, Mr Mulder has known for a long time, because Mr Mulder is an experienced Member of Parliament. He knows exactly how it works. He also knows that you are doing a load relief, as in the government's plan, by structural means, of course. If the crisis is, we also have a duty not to look away and to ensure that people keep perspective. People have to go from one job to another. There must be investment in training and people must be prepared for what the future demands of them. And yes, I would have liked to have seen many more people benefitting from it. But no, I do not want to put aside as useless that all those workers in construction, transport and care can continue to move forward in the labour market for years to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u93	In addition, it is interesting that the VVD did not support another motion to stop the plans this spring. In the Minister's budgetary treatment, the CDA has already crossed the line with him on the sectoral plans. We were and are not in favour of it. This spring we tabled a motion together with D66 to stop and not extend the third tranche. Is the Minister satisfied with the results so far? Does he think it should be repeated or does he think that we should have stopped doing so, just like D66 and CDA suggested this spring?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u94	I am not talking about voting on motions. I don't think I'm going to comment on that. There's enough commentary already. There is a reason why we agreed to evaluate it very seriously. We need to make sure that this is the best we can do. That evaluation has not yet been carried out! I think it is very important not to leave people to their fate at a time of a major, deep crisis in the labour market. That is why I was always so happy with the support of, for example, D66. You shouldn't spend senseless money, you should invest in people themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u95	The Minister does not say: it is a success and I think it can be repeated. The judgement "I would do it again next time" depends, as far as the Minister is concerned, on the evaluation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u96	That's right. It seems to me to be very sensible, because it is not about the means but about the purpose. It is a goal on which we agree: to keep people at work and to get people to work. It would be a good thing that the VVD not only says "we stand for our signature" but would also be proud of its own policy. That is a policy that I can also promote on behalf of the VVD. You then have a duty to invest in people's education in crisis time. You gotta keep people in there and then you're gonna see if you could've done better. What can we learn from this? How can we do even smarter in the next crisis? Let us not run away now from the fact that in those difficult years, together with the sectors, we have invested in the workers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u97	I don't know if I'm gonna count this interruption or if I need to see it as entrapment. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u98	What matters is the result, and the results of these 600 million are very low, namely 2,000 jobs. Skinny!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u99	That depends on what results you count. You can count yourself poor and lean by not finding those hundreds of thousands of people who are educated relevant, but that would be strange, given the changes in the labour market. At least 17 000 learning jobs and 2,000 people on the benefit may be modest, but many thousands of people have not become unemployed thanks to this money. If you don't count it, it's gonna be skinny. I agree with Mr Mulder, but he must also look at the things that can succeed. Be proud of that! It has been done in part thanks to Mr Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u100	The question is not what, apart from those 2,000 low-income jobs, has produced any more. It is the alternative that is at stake. What would have happened if we had spent the 600 million in a different way? Then we wouldn't have had those 2,000 jobs......................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u101	I think that question is very relevant. That was also my answer to Mr Heerma's question. I think we have a duty to evaluate so honestly that you can learn the lesson that it could have been more effective or that it would have produced more in another way. I will not provoke Mr Mulder anymore, but we are quick to agree that occasional money and relief would probably have been of little use. But maybe it could have been smarter and if so, I'd like to learn that lesson. Our attitude must be: we hold on to the goal and we adapt the instruments just as long until more people are at work.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u102	It remains remarkable that the VVD voted against when we could quit in June. Mr Heerma was right to point it out. The Minister is coming to the end of his more detailed work on the job plans, but I am still curious about one thing. At first, the VVD considered the Minister's action "insufficient." Today it is'slim'; I do not think that is enough either. But according to the Minister it was all a misunderstanding, so we could see on television at Pauw, and Mr Zijlstra had now said that it was 'insufficient' taken back. Now I am confused about this after Mr Mulder's input, but perhaps the Minister can tell me: has the VVD withdrawn the insufficient now or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u103	Mr President, I did not want to do that, with your permission. I've seen all kinds of reviews, reviews, numbers, classifications and stars come along. What I wanted to do was to comment on what was said here in the debate. This means that we are serious about Mr Mulder's critical notes as well, and we are talking to the Chamber about what you can do extra. Furthermore, I wanted to keep my distance from that discussion. I heard all that yesterday, of course. I don't think it would be appropriate for me to be a part of it myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u104	Mr Van Weyenberg probably thinks otherwise. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u105	I think it is very important that we have discussed the content, how we can get people to work, the 600,000 unemployed in this country who so badly want a job. I very much agree with the Minister. But at the end of the round of employment, of course, the political question remains as to what the level of support and enthusiasm of coalition party VVD is for this minister. This is partly a debate between Members of Parliament, and the Minister is right to do so. But he told Pauw it wasn't enough of the VVD. That's a statement from the Minister. After Mr Mulder's intervention yesterday, I am confused about this. So I do ask this Minister: is Mr Mulder's inadequate or not removed from the table by Mr Zijlstra?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u106	Yesterday, before I entered the debate, I said that I would wait and see what would happen in the debate itself. I did, and now I answer. So I do not need to discuss all the figures and rankings at all. I stand here for the content, I stand here for the jobs, I stand here for a decent labour market. That's what I'm talking to the Chamber about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u107	Exceptionally a third time, Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u108	The Minister doesn't want to answer my question twice. He's about his own answer, but I find it remarkable. Of course, we in the Chamber talk about the content, and at the end you also draw a political conclusion. Mr Mulder said in that conclusion: it is an inadequate one. Yesterday, if I finally understood him correctly, he actually repeated that. However, according to the Minister, that was what he said publicly. Is it off the table or not? That question seems to me to be an easy one to answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u109	Maybe that's simple, but not because of me, because it's a question about others. I respond to the questions I have been asked about the budget and about social affairs policy. It's about employment. It's also about integration. I do so with conviction, because I think there are opportunities in the Netherlands but we have to do our best to make use of them incredibly. That is what I was talking about, and that is what the follow-up is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u110	Mr Öztürk. Mr Öztürk isn't? Then we will go to Mr Dijkgraaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u111	The Minister was just as keen on the job plans and their evaluation. It is not just a question, I listened to him, of what these job plans have or have not achieved.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... My question would be: is that included in the evaluation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u112	Yes. It's a triple evaluation. We are going to evaluate a first piece next year. A year and a half later, the overall picture comes. But there will also be an evaluation, as I agreed with the Chamber at an early stage, in which we try to look at the net effect. We are going to try to answer Mr Heerma, Mr Mulder and Mr Dijkgraaf. Scientists have told me that they find that exciting and challenging, but I am very interested in it. Because you want to learn. You want to see what kind of net effect appears, and also the question whether it could have been done better in another way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u113	Would it not be advisable, in view of the questions that arise and the criticism that there is, to look at that route again and see if that could be brought forward? When I hear the Minister like that, it will take a very long time before we have the final answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u114	I looked into that, but we have to bear in mind that you can't do an evaluation until it's finished. Otherwise, you're gonna go mid-term evaluation. This is a dilemma that we often have, for example with the Work Act and certainty with an early assessment of the chain determination. But, yes, to keep that evaluation when it's barely implemented, there's no point. As I have shared with the Chamber, I have looked at a rapid evaluation, which does not provide all the answers to the questions that are asked fundamentally, and then a more comprehensive evaluation. I can't make it much prettier, I'm afraid.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u115	Mr Öztürk, do you wish to interrupt? I just gave you the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u116	I would like to continue with Mr Van Weyenberg's questions, particularly in the area of political support. I asked you to look in the mirror, Minister. At the time, I hung a number of them in the building Colonies, near the PvdA. Mr. Hilhorst has replaced you as alderman in Amsterdam. You have come from Amsterdam to The Hague to tackle unemployment and bring jobs. Three years and 600 million euros later, we see that you didn't make it. You just didn't do it. Mr Hilhorst has written a book in which he honestly explains that he was not the right man in the right place. Are you prepared to look in the mirror as Mr Hilhorst, your successor, has done? You're damaged...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u117	Can you put your question pointier?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u118	You're damaged. With this damage, can you carry out your plans, which you are putting forward today, whether or not you are?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u119	When I arrived, we were in a deep, deep economic crisis and it went on for a while. Its effects on the labour market were palpable. However, since the beginning of 2014, we have not only economic growth, but also a recovery in the labour market. We quickly agree that this recovery must be speeded up, but we also know that next year there will be a full percentage of employment. So I would very much like to continue, because I am incredibly motivated to get people who now have no work to do. In my opinion, the discussion we are having today is open to questions such as: what else can you do, where can you add a little bit and what can you improve on the measures? That seems incredibly important. That is what the government can expect: more work, but also good work and honest work.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u120	The Minister wants to take economic growth with him. But is he the right person in the right place? That was my question. You're the Minister of Investigation; you like investigations. You can make a good speech and you can explain a story. Are you the one who... That is the central question, which I also want to ask the VD: is this minister the one who can tackle unemployment in the coming years? Or is he so damaged and tackled that he can only walk toothless behind the VVD policy in the coming years? He's under the care of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u121	I hear a lot of very interesting things. There are compliments, but I also hear a slightly critical undertones. In the end, however, I am asked questions that I cannot answer, because they are about what parties think of me. Here I stand as a minister defending my policy. And my policy is to get more people to work in a time that is complicated for the Netherlands, where the scars of the economic crisis have not yet disappeared. I think we should get on with that. I think our economy is finally getting better and we need to make sure that more people benefit from it. I'm full of new plans. Just think of the low-income advantage, which is really a new measure that challenges employers to get people back into employment. More than 300,000 people in less well paid jobs will be affected by this measure. Let's make that a success together. Perhaps Mr Öztürk wants to be a part of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u122	The minister wants to be the minister of good and honest work. But let's look at society. Municipalities force people to work without pay. Young people, internships: working, no remuneration. The number of rotating door personnel is increasing. Older people apply to be dull. No job. There are ten times as many people looking for work as there are jobs. Last but not least: see what the cabinet itself does in healthcare. 73,000 unemployed, and the biggest organization is now in danger of falling. The Minister is all very beautiful and graceful: he is doing well. But this is the reality, isn't it? That's what the Cabinet is responsible for, isn't it? If the Minister sees this now, wouldn't he have wanted to do it all differently, even when he started it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u123	We can't do it without a fight. Like Mr Ulenbelt, I see abuses in the labour market. I see examples of exploitation. I see examples of underpayment. But that's what we're going to fight. That is one of the few subjects for which I have really experienced support from the SP. Think of the Fake Designs Act, with which we make employers responsible for underpayment, so that they cannot hide behind a temp agency that sits in between. We're gonna do something about it. And no, the world hasn't turned into paradise yet. We're not done yet, either. Not for nothing did I mention in my introduction the importance of better regulation at European level as well. Today I received a petition from the FNV about abuse of A1 statements. Indeed, that is a thorn in my eye, just as it is a thorn in Mr Ulenbelt's eye. So let's do something about that. I'm not here to argue that we're ready. On the contrary. More work is needed and people need to get back to work faster. But we also want it to be fair, so that companies can compete fairly and have a decent chance and not be replaced by cheap labour from elsewhere. No, we're not done with that at all. We're gonna have to go through with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u124	It's not about whether we're done. It's what this cabinet started with: working without wages and the like. Let me make it very specific: the resignation of 12,000 people at TSN is on the agenda. I once brought the Minister to the Chamber during the recess. He was gonna solve that problem with Sensire and so on. This afternoon my colleague asked Secretary of State Van Rijn where his rescue plans are. Can I now send this minister to the cabinet on Friday to say that we cannot make it in this country to fire 12,000 people in care? These people are doing a fair and good job now. Can the Minister promise the Chamber that they can continue to do this honest and good work, that they will keep their jobs and that, if necessary, the rates paid by the municipalities will have to be raised? Is the Minister prepared to make that commitment to the cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u125	This debate was held this afternoon with Secretary of State Van Rijn. So I find it very difficult to repeat this debate tonight, but the question is correct. I understand that. This is a tragedy for the people who receive care from the employees of TSN. It is also a tragedy for the employees, because they have come into enormous uncertainty. However, Mr Ulenbelt also knows that there is much more to it than just the question of whether I am doing my best and whether we are discussing it in the Cabinet on Friday. State Secretary Van Rijn has indicated that he is in close contact with the organisation, that there has been a request for a suspension and that it is now up to that organisation to take steps in this follow-up. He also indicated that he is dealing with tariffs and good market practices, i.e. with the other side of this story, the regulatory side. However, I would find it false to make a vow here to many people that is not just mine and that I cannot deliver alone. Mr Ulenbelt can count on the cabinet being ready, as with other cases of large and small redundancies. If there are mobility centres to come, as they were at Aldel, I will deliver them, but I'm not going to make a promise right now that I'm not sure I can deliver.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u126	This is now the difference between the Minister's picture and reality. Meanwhile, 12,000 people are flying out, but the Minister's only promise is that he will come up with mobility centres when it happens, while the redundancies are the result of cabinet policy. These are people who do good and honest work. Minister, stand up for them!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u127	I really leave that conclusion to Mr Ulenbelt. I also find it a little too easy with regard to insecure employees to make it so simple. I'm not gonna be a part of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u128	The Minister himself just referred to the term "misfits in the labour market." I like to put my teeth in there, too. I pointed out to him yesterday in my speech a number of very specific abuses. One of those abuses he just mentioned: abuse of the A1 form. The FNV has drawn attention to this today. The minister said he wants to handle this, too. How's he gonna do that? And what is he going to do with the failure that was mentioned in February as a result of the covenant that the tax authorities concluded with the broadcasting industry years ago? And what does the Minister think about the abuses surrounding internships and work experience spots, which are very often abused as a new form of very cheap labour?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u129	That's three questions in one. For the A1 declarations, we need to look at what we can do nationally, but above all we need to take steps at European level. I have also brought this to the attention of the Commissioner. I hope that something of this will land in the announced mobility package. Perhaps that would be there next week, but the reports are very different. The mobility package deals with social security and the Detachment Directive, but also with such examples: dealing with undeclared work, but hopefully also with the A1 declarations. We'll wait for that package. We can then see from the Presidency whether we can make this concrete. Then it also has meaning for the Netherlands. On the issue of taxation, I come back in consultation with the colleague who deals with tax matters. That's not just up to me. He has promised that we will come back to this more comprehensively, but I cannot unilaterally speed up that period. The third part, the internships, we have also talked about it more often. I can't do that on my own. For this, it is necessary to have reports. We hear stories about abuse of internships every now and then. Young people have long graduated, but roles from one internship to another. The law is clear that the internship should focus on learning and not on normal work without being paid for. We need reports to deal with this more effectively. I have already spoken to social partners about this: if you hear these signals, not only bring them forward, but also make sure that they are reported to the inspection, because then we can do something about it. I repeat that plea here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u130	That's clear. I have another follow-up question about the A1 form. I agree with the Minister that this issue certainly needs to be adapted at European level. I am very pleased with the speed shown by the Minister at European level when it comes to preventing underpayment, unfair competition and repression. I agree with him that we can also do something at national level. Suppose we all conclude that we are not getting enough progress at European level. Is the Minister prepared to look at what can be done at national level to combat this abuse as much as possible and preferably eliminate it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u131	Sure. In the meantime, we have built up a tradition with the Chamber that we are always looking at what we can do at national level. What can we do in enforcement? What can we do in the regulation? What do we see in the labour market that is unfair, unfair and that enables unfair competition? That's what we're gonna do. The first choice would be to do so especially at European level. This offers a level playing field, also for Dutch companies and also elsewhere in Europe. I'm coming...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u132	At the collective agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u133	In collective agreements and their modernisation. Mr Mulder and Mr Van Weyenberg have made a warm plea for this. I recognise this plea, the need to go along with the changes, to call upon and encourage the social partners to do so. We see a few good examples in which despite a lot of trouble in the polder one manages to find each other and bring about change. I am reluctant to suggest that politics intervenes in this. It is precisely when it comes to business, to sectors and to agreements between employers and employees that I think politics should be reluctant to say: we do not agree with this agreement and we do agree with it. Today there is an intervention that pleases one party, but tomorrow there will be another party. The Dutch system, with all its ifs and buts, ensures that one can form adjustments. You see new things in that too. I refer to the Social Innovation Lab that I visited, where social partners and business practice with robotisation precisely how to change employment very quickly, work in another organisation without being hindered by the rules that belong to your industry or to your collective agreement. I want to encourage that. I think that there are opportunities for the future and that is the way forward. Seasonal work was an important point yesterday. I want to take away any misunderstanding about that. The Work and Security Act, adopted by a large majority of the Chamber, has just entered into force. The law must have a chance and be able to do its good work. Of course we see the problems in some sectors. That is why, before the entry into force, I did something about the retroactive effect of the transition fee in seasonal work. That is why I spoke to the Chamber about the problems of seasonal work in the agricultural sector. Yesterday we understood that there was a provisional agreement there, but I heard Mr Mulder very well on this point. He wasn't alone. He asks me to come back in the spring and look at the various sectors in which seasonal work plays a role. That's what I want to do. I will write to the Presidents of the Labour Foundation and ask them to look into this. Suggestions were raised yesterday that from the central level deals at the decentralised level were stopped. I hear other messages, but at least I'll write them down. I will also appoint a scout who will identify the problems in the various sectors, who, if necessary, will be able to hold talks with partners, who will be able to mediate and perhaps even give a push here and there and then report on them. That also puts an end to the situation that negotiating partners try to gain an advantage through the Chamber or the Cabinet, which the Chamber does not want and neither do I. One can solve that oneself. I've tasted the anxiety in this Chamber. Are you gonna be okay soon enough? I understand that, too, and I'd like to solve that problem. There is one more thing: many of these collective agreements still run until July 2016. This Chamber contains a lot of experienced negotiators. They can all say that one often comes to a deal just before the deadline expires. This may therefore also explain the fact that in some cases the consultations have not yet been fruitful. But I want to look into it, and I will address the social partners. In spring, I'll come back to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u134	Mr Mulder, if you use this interruption, you will have nothing left for the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u135	The subject is important enough, Mr. President. It is in itself good that the Minister recognizes the problems. However, his solution is vague. He wants to appoint a scout. Why doesn't he go for it himself? My group wants a solution to be found for these sectors: recreation, agriculture and seasonal work. We don't want a scout with a report. As far as we are concerned, someone, perhaps the minister himself, simply comes up with solutions and puts them here. And if there are no such solutions, as a Chamber, we can make our own assessment and decide if we can possibly amend the law. Is that what the Minister wants? When can we see this report here?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u136	I thought I would meet Mr Mulder, but the present is not appreciated. Sometimes you do. Then we'll do it without a scout. However, I thought it appropriate to ask someone to look at it, to start talking and to map it out. It was a genuine attempt to deal with what changed yesterday in the first term. I agree with Mr Mulder that you should give that law a chance. The law provides for sectors to make use of that exception. A number of sectors have done so successfully. I take a positive view of the concern in this Chamber as to whether it is going fast enough and whether the consultation is going well enough. However, I do not want to sit in the chair of the negotiating parties. I don't think that's the role of a minister. That is not appropriate and it would be very difficult to answer for it. However, I would like to take this point seriously and come back to the Chamber in the spring. Then I'll send a letter to the Chamber with my findings. I just wanted to use this instrument.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u137	A scout is good, but it's a fixer. The minister's about to send a scout out, but does the scout come up with any solutions? And when's he gonna bring that up? Is that on May 1st?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u138	I share the love for Labour Day with Mr Mulder. That seems to me to be a good time. The scout will come up with an assessment of which sectors have this problem and I think he will also come up with a view to whether the sectors can resolve it properly. I understand the problem. That's what I reported. So let's say use it, too, and take advantage of that opportunity. Then we can have the debate together on whether and, if so, in what sense the law itself should be called into question. That law entered into force on 1 July. That's five months and a day ago. There are all kinds of people who have an evaluation of the law, but I find that quick. When you listen to the debate, it seems as if the labour market is much more difficult because of that law. However, the figures show something else. Since its introduction, employment rates have increased, unemployment has fallen, the number of jobs has increased and hours worked have increased. So let's give this law a chance to do its good work. Let us face the problems, but let us also give the system of the law itself a chance. I want, with the Chamber, to help solve the problems that exist.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u139	It is good that the Minister is moving in response to the many negative signals about seasonal work and also the questions from the Chamber. I think the date, 1 May, is late though. There are a number of sectors where problems come first. Mr Mulder spoke yesterday in three months. So my first question is whether it could be done sooner. Would March 1st or April 1st be possible? There are really sectors that are going to depend on whether the parties are going to find each other or whether other less desirable solutions are being found. My second question is what sectors the Minister is thinking about. In his view, which sectors are covered by seasonal work? Are we talking, for example, about sports associations, where there are also many concerns?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u140	The answer to the first question is: the faster, the better. You don't have to wait with everything. If a deal is possible in a sector right now, I welcome it. I would have loved it if I could have said today that people were out in the recreation sector. I understood that was hanging in the air for a second. Of course, that would have been fantastic in this debate, because how many times can you reassure the Chamber immediately in the first place on an important subject? So let there be no misunderstanding about that. I think, however, that if you want to look at the whole thing, that was the question that Mr Mulder asked me yesterday. The second question was which sectors I am thinking of. I don't want to impose that exhaustively. However, I do not want to get the situation that every sector will say: we can also make up a season, because there is holiday in the summer. So the scout will have to deal with that wisely. The amateur football is at least a sector that has reported itself. I have already had a conversation with this and I have pointed out the possibilities that exist. So that sector is obvious.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u141	Good. I think May 1st is really late. I'm gonna go to the second term and think about whether I think it's too late. The sectors are indeed the catering industry, recreation, agriculture and horticulture and amateur sport, the sports associations. There is, however, another one that has always risen above it, which Mrs Schouten of the Christian Union, for example, has drawn a lot of attention to, namely education and especially small schools which do not have the opportunity to work with flexpools. In my view, this has also been the subject of intense attention yesterday. Is that also a sector that could be taken?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u142	I really don't think that's seasonal work. I think this is more of an example of: it is very convenient for us to call it seasonal work. I'm open to every conversation, but it doesn't seem obvious to me. I think there might be problems with small schools. We've talked about that before. Solutions are conceivable. You can also see that here and there. In the east of the country there are a few nice examples where these small schools work together and both the people have the certainty of a good job and the schools have flexibility to be able to respond well to illness and replacement due to pregnancy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u143	It is a bit funny that the Minister first says to the Chamber "how can you already have a judgment, it's just getting started" to present exuberantly all kinds of fantastic economic figures which may be related to the law. I'd like another one, but let's get this over with. Like Mr Heerma, I am going to think about whether I will find this on time. I think it's a good thing it's being taken seriously right now. However, there are more fringes than that seasonal work. There is a broader concern in education, so I really hope the Minister will take the education with him. How does the Minister deal with concerns in employers' and employees' organisations? Is he prepared to sit down again with, for example, the Labour Foundation to look at a number of things that I am now just hearing about, such as the transition fee when people come into an disability scheme after two years of illness? This calls for some incomprehension on the part of many employers, to express myself very euphemistically. Does the Minister intend to deal with some of these matters at once, I am not saying that the law has to be changed, but there is a great deal of unrest about this matter?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u144	On the first point, I must say that Mr Van Weyenberg is absolutely right. Of course it was meant purely defensive and indeed a bit as a joke. However, I find the certainty with which some link the apocalypse to the introduction on 1 July as ridiculous as the attribution of economic growth or world trade in China to that law. We all know that this is about the infrastructure of the labour market, about the long-term consequences. A balance must be struck. Employers and employees must learn to deal with this. So it's really weird to have all your judgment on that after five months. However, Mr Van Weyenberg is quite right in his remarks. My reaction to his second point is that there is permanent contact. There is a management group with social partners in which we discuss all matters relating to the labour market. This commitment was really about the problem put forward by the Chamber, which has also been reported to me from various quarters, about seasonal work. Otherwise, I think you should do the Chamber justice and let the law do its job. If there's a problem or objection somewhere, there's a law that always has one plus and for the other one a minus................................................................................................................................................................................................................ I was just trying to be fair and with largesse the Chamber on the issue of seasonal work Mr Mulder made it very clear yesterday but did not start a kind of preliminary assessment of the law. This is without prejudice to my constant dialogue with the social partners and their ability to express their wishes and concerns to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u145	Then my concern about education remains. The Minister knows this, because together with my group's spokesperson for education, Paul van Meenen, I have asked a continuous zipper of written questions. I therefore hope that the Minister will undertake to look explicitly at education as well. I would also appreciate it if we could get a report from the management group during the spring, which sets out the problems experienced. Because here too, we are speaking separately to all parties, but I am curious about what they come together with. This follows from the social agreement, so they must also dare to solve problems together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u146	They do. Let us have a little bit of appreciation for some social partners in a difficult time with each other. They have always been able, sometimes not as quickly as others would like, to find solutions to very difficult issues. Look at the countries around us. Look at how difficult it is to make a change in France, how the country is flattened every now and then. We should also be a little proud of the fact that we have a tradition of consultation here. I know that consultation is exhausting, that it takes time and that you drink coffee with it, but it's actually getting something. I would like to give this positive colour bath to Mr Van Weyenberg, in addition to the legitimate concerns he has expressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u147	It is said that the WWW evaluation would come far too early. The debate is about a very small but important part, namely the increase from three to six months. The problems with seasonal work, with schools but also with sports associations and collective agreements from which derogations may be made. In short: a whole melee of artificial solutions is chosen. Isn't it much wiser to abandon all these artificial solutions? Take the example of the amateur sports association which is supposedly allowed to join the collective agreement for sports associations. Let the scout who will be there not only explore, but let him also at some point say that it must be cleaned up, that the artificial solutions must be omitted and that the period from six to three months must be reduced. And then make sure that revolving door constructions cannot be created.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u148	The latter is a little complicated. 'Cause those three months are exactly what's gonna create some kind of permanent revolving door. Don't be mistaken: it had great effects. This meant that, despite the chain determination year after year after year, people were not given any certainty. That also meant that in the meantime they ended up in the WW. Therefore, there was some kind of disguised subsidy for those sectors in which that revolving door was used. It was the wish of this Chamber and this cabinet to do something about it. The fact that we are talking about it in this context is because there are special elements in seasonal work, which has also been recognised earlier. Therefore, there is also a possibility in the law to make an exception if employers and employees agree. Mr Mulder quoted yesterday the example of a campsite for which you can ask for an exception because it has to do with the nature of the work. Employers and employees agree on this. That's an important difference. If we were to say that that revolving door wasn't so crazy in the end, you'd miss the chance to make the step to security possible for a large group of people.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u149	We'll talk in three months, so three to six. In fact, that is a false certainty, because any employee can be dismissed at any time, especially in the event of a relaxation of the rules. This false security only leads to additional regulation and artificial constructions. So is it not much wiser to make it clear and then accept what the consequences are? Then there would be a lot more people working, while those people are now permanently in the WW because that six-month period is too long.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u150	It's also about the following. If you invest in an employee and if you're satisfied with him, otherwise you wouldn't want him back after three months, either.It might be attractive to connect with that employee and offer him a little more security. That's what we're trying to do with the law. I agree with the Chamber that for some sectors you should consider whether this law has the desired effect. However, it seems strange to me to say now: leave that alone, let people sit in that revolving door forever. No, you want people to be eligible for a mortgage one day, that they can build something up and that they know what they're up to. We've always said it's a balance. There is no law that will ensure that everyone gets a permanent employment. There's no such thing. It's always about balance. For an employer, more things also play a role: the cost, the risk of payment of wages in case of illness, the burden on labour, the economic outlook in a sector, the need for additional people but who are difficult to find, or vice versa. All these elements play a role in this. However, the question was: make sure that people get security faster. However, this cannot be done in the right way in every sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u151	I see Mrs Vermeij wants to interrupt. To structure things, I say: I have the impression that we are going to do the integration afterwards. We're gonna finish that block.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u152	That seasonal work is something that concerns a lot of people in this house, and so is I. I'm surprised at the deadline. As the Minister may have heard, I made a plea yesterday to take a little more time. We have a winter season and a summer season, and we are just a few months away. I still have a specific question. You can see that seasonal work in very different sectors. If I'm right, you have three currents here. A trend is: we come out with the social partners and make agreements about seasonal work within the exception rule of the Work and Security Act. Another current is: we are in conversation, with horns and bumps; it is not going very well. Another trend is that there may be a number of sectors in which this conversation does not start at all. Is the scout also the one who says: "that's where things are going and that's where such agreements are being made," "that's where they need a push but it's going in the right direction" and "that's where it's stuck; we have to do something about it"?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u153	Sure. Remember that I also promised to ask the Chairmen of the Labour Foundation to take this up as soon as possible. Of course, with a certain degree of independence, they have their relationship with the decentralised level. In doing so, I have consciously addressed the concerns expressed here, namely whether it is working properly between the central and the decentralised levels. I ask for urgency, precisely because there is such a concern in a part of the Chamber: is that going well? That scout can then report freely to me what he has seen, what he has observed, and what he has done with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u154	The question to the Labour Foundation is: what exactly is this about? The answer to that could come to the Chamber earlier. Or am I wrong about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u155	I said in reply to Mr Heerma's question that, as far as I am concerned, we have nothing to wait for. So if a sector is out, that's fine. If the Presidents of the Labour Foundation have a reaction they want to share with me and with the Chamber, that is fine. Here's what's important. Mr Mulder said yesterday: March. That's what I thought: if you want to do it seriously, the way the Chamber wants it, you might need a little more time. He just said May 1st. King's Day may speak even more than the Labor Day. Well, that's a few days earlier. At least we'll put the socks in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u156	The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u157	We are currently faced in the Netherlands with the arrival of a large group of refugees from another part of the world where there is a unprecedented humanitarian tragedy, where people have drifted and where people have sometimes been sheltered under appalling conditions in the region. We have learned from the past that integration is a matter of pace. Once it is clear that people stay here for a while, you have to make sure that they learn the language, that they get to work and that they learn the values of Dutch society. People who stay will have to participate. This is an important lesson about integration in the Netherlands. Newcomers can also be expected to work for this, share core values and contribute to society. Let me be very clear about these core values. You have a huge freedom here, which we sometimes take for granted here. This also means that you accept that freedom for others, that you accept that someone else doesn't believe or otherwise, that someone else doesn't deal with freedom of expression, that someone else doesn't make his choices about partner and sexual orientation. These are values that are essential, which we share here, which have been built over the years and fought. It is important to be explicit about these values and to be proud of them. I believe that we have been too implicit in the past and that we should make these values explicit. I received today a letter from Refugee Organisations Netherlands which was crystal clear. It stated that, precisely because so many people come from another environment, who they have not fled for nothing, Refugee Organisations The Netherlands considers it extremely important that the emphasis here is on freedom, on those core values of Dutch society. They literally stated in that letter: it is not a punishment to live in freedom. So also where there are concerns about the mandatory character, it is embraced. They also said: Use the knowledge there is about didaktics. Of course, it's not just about signing an explanation. It is much more about the understanding of that statement and the way to it. I thought that was very positive.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u158	I can only agree with the words in the letter that it is not a punishment to live in freedom. I like the point of departure which the Minister uses for what he calls 'the declaration of participation'. Those are important values. But now the same minister does not apply these values or does not consistently apply them in his integration policy. How is it that 40 years after the arrival of the first migrant workers, now that we have a second and a third generation of new Dutchmen, the Minister still conducts ethnic-religious politics with organisations that are nothing more or less than the extension of the Turkish and Moroccan governments?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u159	I'm not.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u160	Does the Minister then distance himself from the fact that Milli Görüs, Diyanet and other organizations and the Turkish and Moroccan governments are his allies?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u161	It was just said that I conduct ethnic-religious politics along with countries and organisations. That's not true. Mrs. Karabulut says I shouldn't be looking for cooperation and I shouldn't be in touch. I sat at the table with Minister Van der Steur today with a large group of Muslim organizations. One of these Muslim organizations was Diyanet, which is part of the Turkish state apparatus. If I had to believe Mrs. Karabulut, I shouldn't have. The conversation was about recognizing signals of radicalisation. The conversation was about tolerance in Dutch society. It seems to me to be part of the work of conducting these talks, without leaving the integration of Dutch people to foreign powers. That is the suggestion that was raised yesterday in a question, but that is not the case. There won't be any.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u162	The question is and remains: if self-determination is so important to the minister, why does he approach those Dutch, in this case Turkish Dutch, not as an individual, as a Dutchman? Why does he always want to talk to clubs that do hinder integration and emancipation? That's not from now or last year. No, it's been happening for 30 years. Why does the Minister feel this need, and does he do so in an ethnic-religious way? That stings. And that's not good. The Minister can talk, of course. We have to talk. But an integration policy with these organizations, in which you really leave the society and the individuals, who in my view are full Dutch people, to the left and you at least hinder a lot of things, is really not of this time anymore. So I would have liked the Minister's written reply to sign the declaration of credibility which I presented to him yesterday, stating that self-determination should be the starting point for integration policy and that old-fashioned ethnic-religious politics should stop. But maybe he still does. Then we can move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u163	When I hear this interruption, we're much more in agreement than you'd think. Because I hear now that talking is okay and that it is wise. That also makes sense to me, because individuals also have the freedom of association. Those associations are there and they play a role in Dutch society. In fact, in the written answer, I say that there is no question of people integrating into the Netherlands via Turkey or Morocco. The individual is at the forefront. So we share the starting points. In addition, you also have individuals who choose to unite. Those associations are an interlocutor. That's not because I like everything about these associations, on the contrary. If you talk to them, you can also address them, just on their responsibility. Those associations are here. It seems to me in the interest of Dutch society that we have that conversation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u164	Yesterday, I asked for a waiver from forced marriages, polygamy and female circumcision in the declaration of participation. We have now had written answers, but there is a somewhat vague sentence in it: 'I will make this clear in the course where necessary, using the foreign examples of France, among others'. The latter indicates it's in the statement. The first is a somewhat vague sentence: well, maybe it comes to information or something. So I'm asking the Minister what's going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u165	There was another piece of it. It was stated that the examples mentioned by Mr Dijkgraaf go directly against the core values in the Statement of Participation. That's important in the answer. Why is that important? Because you then have to look at how you can make it clear in the journey towards the statement that it is at odds with the core freedoms. The question I haven't figured out yet is whether you should write in that statement everything you're against. That list is actually longer than Mr Dijkgraaf's three examples. My intuition is that it is important to clarify in that trajectory, in those conversations, what practices do not relate to our core values. Mr Dijkgraaf and I can give you a few other examples, but this way it is more positive. However, I would like to see how other countries deal with this. In my reply, however, I was just trying to point out that I understand Mr Dijkgraaf's point and that I agree with it. I want to give this a place in this trajectory, but I'm still not convinced that it's the most effective way to put it in the statement itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u166	This statement by the Minister may indicate that he is still searching. However, it can also be a political formulation in the sense of: I prefer not to do so. I would like to hear that clearly from the Minister. I'd also like to know if he'll still involve the Chamber when his search is over.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u167	Indeed, for the time being I am not convinced that you should include this in the statement itself. However, I would like to say to Mr Dijkgraaf that I want to give this element a place in the process and that I will return to the Chamber with the way in which I will do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u168	I say to Mr Sjoerdsma what I also said to Mr Mulder, namely that this will be the sixth interruption. That would be the last of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u169	I also have a question about the declaration of participation. I wonder how it relates to the Constitution. The minister asks newcomers to commit to a number of key values chosen by the minister, but he does not ask the Dutch who are already there to sign the same declaration. Can the Minister indicate that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u170	The Constitution applies to everyone. The values of the Constitution have been translated into the Declaration of Participation. It is allowed in our Constitution and in international treaties to make demands on people who settle here, therefore, on newcomers. You don't have to take the integration exam when you're born here. The same elements belong to it, such as knowledge of Dutch society, the Dutch language and the way to the labour market. All these elements we ask newcomers to settle here. This is a new element. I'm also looking at the tradition of D66. These are the values of Dutch society. These are the freedoms. We must be more explicit about this and be proud of it. This therefore fits precisely within the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u171	I have another question, because this would be a translation of the Constitution. Perhaps then Minister Asscher can tell me where the Constitution says that insulting should not be allowed at all, except when it comes to people in office. Perhaps Minister Asscher can tell me where solidarity is hidden in the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u172	It's not just the Constitution. They're solidified values, the cores of our society. They can all be traced back to the Constitution. The limits of freedom of expression are set out in Article 7 (2) of the Constitution. The obligations that this entails can be found in fundamental social rights. But no, you cannot take everything that makes our country beautiful directly back to the Constitution. Nor is it a translation of the Constitution. It's more than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u173	I now conclude that the Minister is creating an obligation for newcomers who are different from the obligations that apply to the rest of the Dutch, namely simply to comply with the Constitution. I think that is a very strange view of this Minister. He should stand for the equality of everyone who lives in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u174	Yeah, that's one of the values we're talking about here. When people settle here, when newcomers come here, you can make demands on them. That's perfectly normal. They are then a completely equal part of Dutch society, with all the freedoms, rights and obligations associated with it. Let's celebrate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u175	Then it is strange that these demands are made on the people who come here and not on the people who have been here for a long time, for example, on all of us. We have already had a debate on the declaration of participation. Then the minister said, "You know what, I'll run a pilot in a couple of municipalities and then we'll just see if it works." That pilot has been evaluated by now. Last July the evaluation appeared, but last Friday it was only sent to us. The evaluation is strongly negative. Almost all pilot municipalities indicate that the independent meaning of the declaration is limited. Certainly the majority of refugees will only understand the content and purpose of the document in a limited way. Only two pilot municipalities are for a mandatory national roll-out. Only those two municipalities consider this desirable. Why does the Minister choose that means, if the desirability or the question of whether this helps is in fact questioned by everyone?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u176	I really don't read that evaluation like Mrs Voortman does. There's a lot more in it than that. It is, of course, not only the explanation itself, but also the route to which it relates. The thirteen clusters of municipalities were extremely positive about this. Since the evaluation was carried out, I have held administrative consultations with the municipalities on how they intend to proceed with it and what they consider important. One of the conclusions was that just when so many refugees come to the municipalities, there is a need for such an instrument. For nothing, the sun rises: a request has also been made to extend the area for social guidance in municipalities. That's what we did in Friday's board agreement. There was real enthusiasm among the municipalities to get on with it. I tried this on Friday when concluding the administrative agreement with the same municipalities that signed it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u177	The examples I just gave are literal quotes from the evaluation. This also shows that municipalities indicate that the right approach should be to welcome and provide information. That helps a lot more. A declaration of participation is purely symbolic and the question is whether it will help.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u178	It's also about welcoming, because what is a nicer way of welcoming someone than telling them what makes this country so fantastic? Think of the freedom for every human being, the treatment that goes with it, the rights that a person has, but also the way in which we fulfil our duties in this society. What's wrong with that, anyway? Why would you be so cramped about that? Make that explicit. I've heard a lot of enthusiasm about that in the congregations. It is not just about what is on paper, it is also about the route to which it is written and what you tell people about it. That's how it has meaning. I myself, a year ago, saw a group of refugees in Amsterdam who made that journey sign such a statement, some with tears in their eyes because they realized it is a great good thing to live in such a free country.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u179	I referred yesterday in my speech to Malika Sorel, a French Algerian integration expert. It is very explicit that the poor integration of mainly Islamic groups in Western Europe, including in the Netherlands, has to do with a cultural problem, rather than with a socio-economic problem. I asked for a response and I haven't heard it yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u180	I am sorry that I was still at the beginning of my speech on integration. Perhaps Mr Van Klaveren can check that I do justice to him in the rest of my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u181	Yes, but it's also about the written input, because I didn't see my point in that. But if the minister says he's gonna respond, I'm gonna wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u182	The reaction I just gave is part of that answer. It is not just about socio-economic integration. It is also about the importance that someone, if they come from another culture, realizes what the core values of Dutch society are. The freedom that applies here, for example religious freedom, is very broad. It extends to the way you organize, dress and set your mind. That freedom can only exist if you accept that of every other individual. These elements are also reflected in cultural integration. I think this is important. Mr Van Klaveren and I may even agree that we have been too implicit about this in the past and that this must be changed now. Yesterday, in his speech, he quoted a number of parties on the left, who in the past were reluctant to work towards the integration of minorities, thinking that people would go back or they would come back on their own. I think we have learned those lessons and we know together that it is important, if people stay here, to invest in the language from day one, to ensure that they can work and contribute, and to be clear about the freedoms of Dutch society.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u183	I do not think anyone here will deny that we need to integrate and allow people to participate where possible, but the point is, of course, that we are seeing problems with many Turkish, Moroccan, Somali and Afghan immigrants. There are now huge groups of people coming from Syria to the Netherlands. How will the Minister prevent these groups from running the same route as the previous groups? For so far the policy has not changed substantially in this respect: people come in, receive welfare benefits, be placed in a centre and, if they stay, have to take an exam within three years, and then everything would have worked out well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u184	In the letter I sent to the Chamber on Friday, I think there's a reversal. In the past, where housing and income provision were at the forefront, we must reverse that. Work must be at the forefront. People have to stand on their own feet. They must be able to make a contribution. In the area of language, we need to intensify this with faster and more language courses. I also refer to the element that we have just talked about, that you welcome people, but also clearly share the freedoms of Dutch society. That's not a guarantee. It's still a huge challenge, no misunderstanding about it. In any case, we are trying to learn the lessons of the past by working more quickly, more explicitly, here and there, to integrate the groups that settle here. We're not trying to make the mistakes of the past by thinking: well, those people are probably going back. No, we have to assume that some of the people stay here for a long time, so we have a great interest in ensuring that integration takes place successfully.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u185	We are talking about essential values and I very much agree with the words of this Minister. We had a round table this morning about lhbt'ers in azc's. I realise that, when it comes to safe shelter and safe accommodation, there is also an important task for the Minister's colleague. The signals we got today were pretty disturbing. I think I should bring it up here as well. Even the COA staff are not always homo-friendly in the treatment of these asylum seekers. So we have a task to teach essential values to newcomers, asylum seekers. That should be done as early as possible. I very much agree with that. But we have work to do here and there in our own society of Dutch people who have lived here for a long time. I would like to give this to this minister because of his responsibility for integration.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u186	I agree with that 100%. We really have a job to do there. The government has them, but they have communities of their own. We need the brave people who denounce taboos. I am very close with Secretary of State Dijkhoff to make this point clear that some values are not negotiable. So knowing you're safe in the Netherlands also means that you're free to be who you are, whether that's gay or straight. I very much agree with Mrs Yücel. That task is not yet complete. We shouldn't waste any time in that. We have to go through with that. We need to be clear about that: that is not negotiable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u187	You're finishing up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u188	I do. It is good to realise that, in order for this to succeed, a lot of Dutch people are making a contribution. This morning I read in the newspaper: a volunteer is available for every refugee. I've seen that, too. It's almost impossible to manage how many volunteers report in. That is also Dutch society. There are concerns, legitimate concerns, but there are also a lot of people who are ready to manage it. We must make use of that; we must appeal to the Dutch to understand that people did not choose to get barrel bombs on their homes. With each other, we can make sure that we can meet this challenge. This is an important message in terms of integration next year. Finally, I come to discrimination. Then it is not about the refugees, but about a problem in the Netherlands. Mrs Vermeij and Mrs Karabulut spoke about it yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u189	I asked a question yesterday about integration. If you make it as an asylum seeker within the prescribed time limit, you will be reimbursed. Of course, that's $10,000. This cabinet has let in nearly 100,000 people in the last two years. If they all make it within the deadline, you're talking about a billion euros. Why is the Minister giving this away for free?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u190	It's about people's obligation to borrow, shape it themselves, and then they can get it back. The loan amount is up to €10,000, but on average it is much lower. That doesn't change the question. Suppose a large group that gets €3,000 back, which is the average, then it costs money. Then the question is: is that a good investment? I think so, because in that integration exam is the participation statement, the knowledge of Dutch society, the Dutch language and the way to work. Once people are at work, they pay taxes and contribute. That is in the best interest of all of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u191	These people have spent money on a boat to cross the Mediterranean. People often spend thousands of euros on that. If they want to build a future here, if they want to go to the Netherlands so badly, then you send a signal by saying: nothing is free here, you have to do it yourself, you already have money for it, do you pay for it yourself? Because by giving something away for free, I think the government sends the wrong signal by saying: this is what you get, there is more to get here. Then you don't force respect as a government, is my thesis.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u192	I think this is a legitimate point from Mr De Graaf. It is not for nothing that we do not have this exemption for all other citizens. People who come here as part of family reunification simply have to finance it themselves. Of course, we do not want people at risk for their own lives to undertake such a journey. The greater aim of cabinet policy is to prevent people from using illegal migration routes in this way. We do this by making agreements at European level. We do this by investing in reception in the region by improving the conditions there. We do this by agreeing on the distribution at European level. But now that people have come here who have the right to care, I think it is important that they integrate as quickly and as well as possible. And then I find such an investment worthwhile.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u193	It is not the case that Dutch people do not show solidarity, quite the contrary. We are very united and we are certainly prepared to welcome people and offer them the language when they have to flee war and oppression. I see the point made by Mr De Graaf. This solidarity is broken down when one has to pay for a course outside the tax system and the other does not. Then that's gonna make bad blood. It would be fantastic if the Minister really learned from the lessons of the past, if he maintained solidarity and provided good language and integration education that is accessible to everyone, also because it is an investment in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u194	Does this argument mean that it will be free for everyone or nobody?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u195	It cannot be explained that someone who comes here as part of family reunification has to make expenses outside of taxes, while someone else doesn't have to. I am very much in favour of us simply offering good and accessible education, paid for by the general means of integration, both for the refugee and for the family migrant. Of course we get emails about this. I think it is a valid point. And then we shouldn't do it the way the right will, the minister goes along with it, and say: it's your own responsibility, figure it out, pay for it. No, it is part of left-wing progressive politics that we organise good integration education and that we all pay it as an investment in our society.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u196	Then I sincerely disagree with Mrs Karabulut. It is not for nothing in the coalition agreement that I very much agree that people who come here in the context of family reunification can expect them to provide for their own livelihoods and that they also make an investment in their new country. That's different with refugees. They do not choose to flee, but they get bombs on their heads and have to build a new life somewhere else. That distinction between these two groups is in the coalition agreement. I think that is perfectly justifiable. I also think that many other settlers realize that it is much more pleasant if you can choose to settle in another country, for example because you fall in love with someone, than if you have to flee war violence with your family. It's not the same thing, is it? I find the plea to make it all free of charge bad for the solidarity of the Dutch, but also the plea not to make everything free, bad for refugees who have not chosen to do so. I very much support the distinction laid down in the coalition agreement, not only because I signed it, but also on substantive grounds.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u197	It's recognizable. The Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u198	We'd be doing interrupts in two.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u199	Yes. The Minister often goes along with right-wing points. It doesn't matter, but the Minister still owes me an autograph unless he says, "I don't do that, because I'm not that credible." I offered him a statement yesterday. The Minister is asking people to adhere to certain values and I want the Minister to live it up to. So I would like a copy of my statement signed by him back.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u200	I think it is very nice that Mrs Karabulut wants to have a signature from me, which sometimes happens to me with school classes, but I do not go into that. I find it strange that a minister should be asked to sign a statement by Mrs Karabulut. I like that explanation to a large extent. It is also in line with the declaration of participation. In the second part, however, there is the suggestion that we should not talk to other countries and organisations that may be religiously organised. I think that we have just had a debate on this and I do not think it makes sense to repeat it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u201	I would like to continue with regard to the funding of integration courses. Why is it that asylum seekers are not assessed to what extent there is a capacity to contribute to integration, for example, while family migrants, marriage migrants and others do?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u202	That's how the law works now. That distinction is also in the coalition agreement. I understand Mr Van Klaveren's suggestion; I can imagine him bringing it in. I have announced to the Chamber that I would like to amend the Integration Act in order to make participation declarations a part of it. If we present the amended integration law here, I am open to the debate on whether we can further improve it. I think it should be just, but there's nothing wrong with it if it's sober. If so many people need to be taken care of here, we can look at that. I come to the subject of discrimination. Although this is the last topic I'm discussing, it's no less important. Several Members of Parliament have been asked to pay attention to this. Discrimination is an incredibly important part of society. It destroys the dreams of young people, it destroys talent, it prevents people from finding their place in the labour market and makes people feel hurt and excluded. We are firmly committed to tackling all forms of discrimination, Islamic hatred, anti-Semitism and racist behaviour towards people of different ethnic backgrounds. We are committed to better registration. In the conversation I just quoted, I was able to tell the Muslim organizations there that the police can finally register if there is Muslim hatred. At the same time, we are doing something about prevention, because we are not going to be able to do it by simply punishing them. We are doing something about prevention by promoting inclusive employership, through the diversity charter, with which more and more organisations join, and by ensuring that more and more organisations speak out against discrimination. We have an action plan on labour market discrimination in which we implement 42 actions. They see enforcement, knowledge, awareness of prejudices and their approach. The Action Plan is part of the approach to youth unemployment. It was D66 and the PvdA who previously asked to take into account the effects of stereotyping and prejudice, which sometimes deprives young people who deserve a chance on the basis of their commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u203	You're gonna finish your argument about discrimination? Or were you at the end of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u204	I was about to give a capita selecta of the most important measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u205	Okay, how about we finish that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u206	Then what's it about? It is about increasing the willingness to report, the accessibility of facilities, the launch of a multi-annual broad national campaign and a series of meetings on Muslim discrimination in mosques, starting in January in the Hague region. The aim is to strengthen the local approach by providing a database for municipalities and professionals with effective interventions to combat discrimination, knowledge of effective elements in tackling labour market discrimination, a pilot with regional reports on discrimination to better link ADVs and police data, a plea put forward by Ms Nijkerken of the VVD. It is about promoting diversity through funding and joining the diversity charter of the Foundation of Labour, a study of good principles of diversity, development of self-audit tools for municipalities and businesses, an employer approach as part of the youth unemployment programme. In addition, we are talking about actions in education, dialogue and social media, and Mrs Karabulut asked yesterday about this and the implementation of the Action Plan on labour market discrimination.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u207	I see progress with the Minister. He has shown very well and showed what discrimination can do to a human being. He also said that Muslim hatred should be addressed. He mentioned it first and I think it's wonderful that he now also realizes that Muslim hatred harms the Netherlands. We have an anti-Semitism action plan, let us also create an action plan for Muslim hatred. I missed that in the lineup. The second point that the Minister can take into account in his reply is the proposal of his own party, the PvdA, to introduce anonymous applications. That's a painful thing. You shouldn't use your last name Asscher to get a job, that's what your own party says. That's painful. That hurts a lot of young people, deep down. The Prime Minister has already said: you must fight. And now your own party says: apply anonymously. Don't you give all those young people who are on the side, another punch?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u208	We have talked about the first point more often. I don't think there's any misunderstanding about how the Cabinet feels about Muslim hatred. It's unacceptable, and that's why we're taking it wherever we can. That's why I just gave the example of police registration. The second point I find very difficult. Why? Because eventually it's always a defeat to ask people to apply anonymously. After all, you want to get to a situation where people in society have no prejudices and so it doesn't depend on whether they invite someone to a conversation. You want people to be invited on the basis of their resume. At the same time, we see that this discrimination is particularly important when it comes to entering the labour market, so on that first step: whether or not to invite someone to a conversation? Whether or not to give someone a first chance? After that, that also says something positive about our society.You see people growing just as hard in their company or their organization. At the top it will be less, but during the steps to that end the backlog is much less. In that light, I understand why a number of municipalities have conducted experiments with anonymous application. In Britain, David Cameron also argued for it. I did not take the Labour Party's plea as saying: that would be a great final situation. We are now living in the situation that labour market discrimination is a major problem, and then you must have the willingness to test unorthodox means, without taking anything away from Mr Öztürk's point that it can never be a final situation. You should be proud of your last name, no matter how many consonants it contains.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u209	We have submitted a plan for locator applications to deal with an entrepreneur who deliberately discriminates. You can't just ask the migrant youngsters for sacrifices. You also have to ask the entrepreneurs not to discriminate and to deal with one once in a while. Get such an entrepreneur for the camera! Naming-and-shaming, as is happening in other areas. I miss that point. I would like to ask one last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u210	You always ask two or three questions in one part of the interruption. What's your point? I'm looking at the clock, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u211	I have three interruptions and I am entitled to six interruptions. I'm using my second interruption. You're very hard on me, but I'm entitled to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u212	You can have a whole discussion about rights. Should very small parties have as many interruptions as very large ones? I'm not having that discussion with you right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u213	Mr President, we agreed with you at the beginning of the sitting. I assume you'll keep those appointments. You have said that each party is entitled to six interruptions. I'll take advantage of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u214	Sure. As I have asked other parties to keep it brief once in a while, I am now asking you to do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u215	My question about the locator applications.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u216	It was about two things: locator applications and naming-and-shaming. Loc applications are vulnerable to me. Provoking a criminal offence cannot just be done by me, because it must fit within the entire legal framework. Naming-and-shaming, that's what I'm here for. In fact, I have already amended the law so that the inspection can make data public. To this end, I have put forward labour discrimination as one of the first issues. A specific team focuses on labour market discrimination. If they have a case, it can be taken out via naming-and-shaming. That law has already been amended.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u217	A new interruption, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u218	Yeah, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u219	You rightly pointed out freedom of association in the beginning. People are allowed to unite, even in matters of faith. We heard your colleague and fellow party member Marcouch this week. He has got the VVD to table a motion together to forbid Salafism, and that while the AIVD also says that not the whole Salafist movement is a danger, but part of it. Your colleague and fellow party member is shaving all the salafists in the same way. The PVV does that to the Muslims and your partymate does it to a religious community. Do you think, from the freedom of association, from the freedom of faith and from all the freedoms you have spoken so well about today, that we can do so? Do you think that, in view of the Constitution, people who believe in peace are already forbidden in advance?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u220	That's a very difficult question. Why? Firstly, I do not think you are doing Mr Marcouch justice, apart from the question of whose party he is. You're making what he would have said a little too wide. What he has touched on in the debate with Van der Steur, and what he has tabled this motion on, is the question: where does religious freedom of association stop because it is used not for the exercise of your religious freedom but for the exercise of a political agenda? That's a question that's not new. That question is about this. If you actually use one of the freedoms to do something else, there may come a time when democracy must defend itself. That does not mean that people who adhere to a certain form of faith are therefore problematic. It's about running another agenda under the guise of faith. We cannot afford naivety in that. When you see that parts of the Salafist movement behave in such a way that parts of the wahabist doctrine move in such a way and that there are money flows involving a political agenda, it is right that the Minister of Security and Justice should be asked to look at where this is at odds with our legislation and whether the legislation is still equipped to defend democracy with all these freedoms. That was also at the heart of the debate I had with Mr Heerma, Mr Potters, but also Mr Van Dam, when he was a Member of Parliament, about when to ban a party. That's not an easy question. Mr Öztürk is right to say that we must take very good account of the fundamental religious rights of everyone in this country. However, there is also a duty at the time when we live to see where rights could be abused in order to pursue a completely different, non-religious agenda. Van der Steur has indicated that he is going to consider how to deal with this within the limits of the rule of law. I also owe the Chamber an answer to questions about the elaboration of the previous letter on Salafism. It is a difficult issue, but we will have to have the courage to do so. That is in the interests of everyone in this room.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u221	Experts have indicated that this type of measure is a source of extremism. It's food for extremism. Extremists use this to keep young people off the right track. That's what the experts say. Your own partymate called you "naïve" in there. That's what Marcouch said in an interruption to colleague Kuzu. He just called you naive. I say here: if you equate faith communities, where do we end up? The SGP also has a political agenda. Have you read the principle programme of the SGP, with the story of the sword? That is why I say that we cannot make a distinction in any faith. We have an AIVD, we have a Public Prosecutor's Office, we have judges, we have police, we have intelligence. The moment people do things that go against our rule of law, we just tackle them. But now all other peace-loving people can no longer enter the Defense Department, they cannot become military, they can no longer serve our Defense because the CDA has tabled a motion. That's exactly what you're feeding the extremists.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u222	What people call me, I had intended for this debate not to bother me. I've discussed this with the Chamber in various variants. In addition, I fully agree that your religious communities should not be treated in the same way. That is the spirit of my speech and the essence of this legal state. However, Mr Öztürk will have to acknowledge that sometimes people claim a faith abuse it, if you like, and use it as a coat rack to pursue a completely different, non-religious agenda. As soon as that happens, we have the task of assessing whether the rule of law is sufficiently resilient to it. I myself love comparisons with the SGP, but I still believe that the danger from the SGP....................................................................................................................................................................................... If people say that double standards are applied and that this feeds extremism, I would love to see many Dutch rise up and say: no, it is precisely in the interests of the Dutch Muslims to protect the Netherlands from this kind of interference and from the abuse of faith, in order to keep away from the fear that is provoked by it from the Netherlands. That's what this is about. I call on everyone, including Mr Öztürk, to contribute to this. The extremist discourse, where there is always ground to say that there is double standards and that Muslims are not welcome, is simply not true. It is simply not true; in the Netherlands people have incredible freedom and incredible rights. Yeah, there's trouble. We just talked about that. We have to deal with them. But do not ignore a real danger for fear of the extremists' discourse.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u223	Good. We're...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u224	One final comment, Mr President, or I'll forget it. I borrowed a beautiful book from Mr. Heerma. I'll return it to him through the messenger. I want to involve this in the drafting of the Van Dam motion, which deals precisely with this subject: the resilient democracy, not only for people who are coming here, but also for people who are already living here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u225	Mr Heerma has a comment. No, Mr Öztürk. You have now asked four detailed questions on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u226	I'm entitled to six.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u227	Six interruptions have been agreed, but you're planning on using them all six in a row. It really doesn't work that way. I'm not gonna let you do that. You can get very angry about that, but that's not how the agreements were made. It doesn't work like that; then you could stand here for half an hour interrupting. We're just not gonna do that. Mr Heerma, on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u228	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am pleased that the Minister has been able to appreciate the booklet enough to take it with him in the drafting of the Van Dam motion, which has been submitted to the debate on anti-democratic parties. Fine motion. I think we should have an effect on this before the end of the year. Can I interpret the Minister's last remark in such a way that it is taken into account and that the intention is to look at how it can be provided through municipalities?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u229	The latter is a translation that I dare not make now, after yesterday. I do not have to leave things with the municipalities now without having consulted on them. But I've read the book with great pleasure. There are wonderful passages in it. "We must not be weak tinuses, but come true for our beliefs. Through the spark of exchange of opinions, the truth comes out." For example, I found those sentences in that beautiful book. I thought it was a nice and nice suggestion. I don't know exactly how I'm going to get involved in the impact, but I'm gonna say I'm gonna get back to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u230	Then we will continue the debate at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u231	Before the Minister is ready, I have one more question, partly in response to my speech yesterday. At that time I made a comment by Mr Dijsselbloem, a colleague of this Minister. He asked: do we preserve the social welfare state, and I would add "or what is left of it," because it is becoming less and less so of course, or are the borders closing? After all, these two don't go together. What is the Minister's response to his colleague Dijsselbloem?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u232	What Dijsselbloem talked about is at the heart of cabinet policy. The cabinet actually has three objectives in the context of the entire refugee problem at present. The goal is to ensure that people stop making the dangerous crossing, that they are safe without exposing themselves to these kinds of risks. So you have to look at the causes of their departure. Then you'll have to do something in Syria, no matter how difficult. Then you will have to do something in the countries around it, Turkey, Lebanon and Jordan. If there are no food and education there, you shouldn't be surprised that people are going out. But you will also have to agree at European level on the external borders of Europe, the registration of people going there, but also on the distribution of refugees between European countries. I believe that solidarity should always apply to everyone, so that, for example, the countries of Eastern Europe cannot say: it is good that there are so many agricultural subsidies and that the highways are being improved, but we do not feel responsible for refugees. So that still has some feet in the earth. Mr Dijsselbloem is, of course, right when he says that there is always a limit. You can never solve this problem on your own, with one or two countries. That is why we want to eliminate the causes, provide proper care for those who need them and also make binding agreements at European level.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u233	A deal is now being made with Turkey, of which no one knows what the content is, because it is being kept secret and the coalition parties are blocking the possibility of debating this, even though we already know that the UN is saying that 3 million people are coming to Europe next year. Of course, a very large part of this also comes to the Netherlands. People keep coming, so the boundaries have to be closed. If I have listened carefully to the Minister, he says: Dijsselbloem has just made a chat for the often held and tough in the newspaper, but we do not go along as a cabinet; the borders remain open and the social welfare state or what is left of it goes further. Well, that's a nice message, or rather not such a nice message for the people! To the Minister to defend that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u234	Mr De Graaf already takes into account the possibility that he has not listened carefully. He said, if I've listened carefully. Yeah, he didn't. The cabinet is committed to these three objectives for a good reason: to remove the causes of the flow of refugees by doing things there, to make European agreements in this connection and to take care of those who come here and to integrate people who are allowed to stay here quickly. It is certainly not the case that we have no reaction to this, but the Netherlands cannot do it alone. You're gonna have to do that with other countries. Perhaps it is an unpleasant truth that the Netherlands should cooperate with other countries to pursue the goals, but it is true. Both the Prime Minister and Mr Dijsselbloem have indicated that this is our first preference. Politicians are always loved to think about what should happen if it doesn't, but this is our first preference. Mr De Graaf's summary is not correct; I am attached to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u235	You came to the end of your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u236	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u237	Were you planning to deal with the amendments in the first place?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u238	I wasn't actually going to, unless there's an urgent need for that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u239	I'll take a look around. That request came to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u240	If you give me a moment after the Secretary of State, I can prepare myself thoroughly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u241	I'd be happy to. I see that Mr Öztürk has another question. Is that a substantive interruption?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u242	Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u243	Are you going to stick your sixth interruption to that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u244	This is my very last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u245	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u246	The Minister failed to meet the target for unemployment rates. He thinks he can make it to that target in the last year because the economy is getting better now. Discrimination rates have also increased over the last three years rather than down. I will not mention all these points, given the strict President today, but the Minister knows that Amnesty International and the UN are attacking us. All these discrimination rates are rising, despite the Minister's fine new plans. What can we catch him for? What goals does he set for himself? How far do the rates of discrimination go down next year? Can the Minister be more specific rather than putting forward new plans and fine intentions again?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u247	I think we also have a huge task in the Netherlands. Let me give you an example. A few days ago, Humberto Tan gave his opinion on the issue of Black Piet on television. You can think differently about that, but when you see what he got over him on the internet and what a vile aggression this evokes! The makers of that documentary got this over them, but also Humberto Tan, one of the most popular people in our country, was horribly treated. That's a symbol of the fact that there's really something left to do. There are prejudices, there is racism and there is discrimination. We'll take care of that. I would very much like this to end next year, but Mr Öztürk knows as well as I can that this is not possible. It also requires not only something from the government or from the minister, but from society itself. Deepening one another, meeting one another and getting to know the other side is the only way that prejudices disappear. You have criminal discrimination and criminal racism, which requires reporting and prosecution and which we must give priority to, but that is just the tip of an iceberg that includes prejudice, prejudice between groups and people. You can never take it away as a government by decree. You're gonna have to live for it and make it negotiable. You're gonna have to have some very uncomfortable debates about it. It means that you have to take a stand when people are being treated unfairly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u248	The intentions and what you say; it's beautiful. I know the government can't completely eliminate discrimination. Everyone knows that. But you're the minister responsible for that. You're the minister who has all those officials. You're the minister who has all these resources. You are the minister who wants to promote social cohesion, who has all kinds of equipment, who has hired all kinds of people. Where do we get the targets? What does the taxpayer say about: we invested in that minister, why can't he? Why should we still be discriminated against in this country? How is it that Humberto Tan is not brought forward as an example by the Prime Minister and not now by the Minister: we do not accept this as a cabinet, we do not allow what is happening to him? Why can't we bet even harder on statements from the PVV?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u249	A few things that were said outside the microphone, I didn't hear. There's no discussion outside the microphone here. Mr. Asscher. The Minister, excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u250	My name is Asscher, so that's perfectly correct, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u251	It is customary to address you with the ministerial title. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u252	It's kind of weird. If I receive a compliment from Mr Öztürk, there is always a small toxic edge. He says I named it right, but then something comes up. Then he says that I should speak out against that racism against Humberto Tan. I'm assuming that I did exactly that five minutes ago, but he didn't hear it. That makes it very difficult for me to convince Mr Öztürk in such a debate, because then he simply is not satisfied. That's okay; he's also a member of an opposition party. Maybe we can turn the Acts around and see what I just said about it. I didn't think there was any misunderstanding. I find that disgusting, so I take a stand against that. Mr Öztürk invites me to do so, and I am doing so. If he doesn't hear it, then here's what I can do as a minister through this microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u253	In addition, your contribution will end in the first period, although you will be coming back for the amendments later. I propose that the sitting be suspended for three minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u254	Here and there, a single member comes in. However, I am happy to give the floor to the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u255	Mr. Chairman. For my part, too, I would like to thank all those Members who have come in on a successful basis and who have contributed to their first term. As you have asked, Mr President, I will address three separate issues. That is clear for the structure of the debate. These themes are not surprising to you: the Participation Act and the Jobs Agreement and Labour Quota Act, poverty reduction and debt relief, and finally old age provision. I would like to stress in advance that that too will not surprise you. The cabinet is committed to achieving a society in which everyone gets opportunities to participate. To achieve this, extra attention is, of course, needed for people in a vulnerable position. After all, they are often on the sidelines. I, too, will work with your Chamber to offer these people opportunities. I am thinking of people with disabilities who want a job. I am thinking of children who grow up in poverty and who are keen to participate in sports activities and cultural activities. I am also thinking of people who want to get out of debt, but because of the complexity of the unwound foot sometimes fall below the minimum standard of living. These are all examples we, I think, recognize. In all these groups of people, our fellow governments are an important partner. After all, they support the people in those vulnerable positions. Not only with these fellow governments, we are very often in conclave, but also with our social partners. They are also important interlocutors in these matters. I think it is very important to say here once again that the decentralisations, as they took place from 1 January last, offer opportunities to implement the famous integrated approach. You see more and more of this coming to maturity. Municipalities have a wide degree of freedom of policy. I also see in my contacts with municipalities and aldermen that this policy freedom is being used to provide people with the support they need. I'm going to start with the first theme, with your permission, Mr. Chairman. That is the Participation Act and the Jobs Agreement Act and quota labour restrictions. As I said, everyone deserves a chance on the labour market. The aim of the Participation Act and the Jobs Agreement Act and quota labour restrictions is to give people who have few opportunities more opportunities. So those are also the people with disabilities. The Participation Act and the Jobs Agreement and Job Quota Act have entered into force this year, partly thanks to the help of your Chamber and also the Upper Chamber. They offer handles to guide people to the 125,000 jobs agreed upon, if I may say so. Those 125,000 jobs, of course, come from the social agreement. We have agreed on these jobs with the social partners, and the UNG has also played an important role in this. I see that municipalities, the UWV, the employers and the trade union movement, that is, in short, what is called 'the field'. This can be seen both at national and labour market levels. The challenges raised in the implementation process are recognised and addressed jointly, in good consultation. That is very important. We see that the results of an intermediate measurement for the summer were encouraging. However, we also see that regular employers are at the forefront of this and that the public sector can make a difference. This sector is not at the forefront. My colleagues in the cabinet, with Minister Blok and Minister Plasterk in front of the goat, and of course I am all in the process of doing so. Fortunately, I see the willingness of employers, including during the work visits. In the province of Drenthe, for example, six municipalities, the UWV, trade unions and employers have now agreed that 1,700 new jobs will be created for people with disabilities. Of course, that's very pleasant. I have agreed with the Chamber that the results will be reported by the summer of 2016. I realise, of course, that what has been agreed is ambitious and that the challenge for the coming years is great. However, I also notice that employers are very creative, because they divide jobs into tasks that suit the capabilities of these people... in good Dutch jobcarving................................................................................................................................................ In short, you can see beautiful examples of this. Old-fashioned shrimps are already being peeled by people in the Netherlands. So there are all kinds of jobs that are done here again. We are now, as I said, at the stage of implementation, and that is certainly not always easy. We have already improved a number of points. The signals from the implementation are important and we take them in close contact with the parties involved. I see that the Chamber is very much in favour of this. We have already dealt with a number of issues, even by law, in the Chamber. That law is now in the First Chamber of the States General. I noticed that a number of Members asked for attention in the first place. Mrs Schouten referred to the fact that the letter I sent to the Chamber last week contains a number of important changes. The pupils of special secondary education enter the target group register without evaluation. Municipalities can use a flat-rate wage subsidy of 50%, so the wage value measurement takes place only after six months. The wage costs subsidy for young people who are already working can now be added to municipalities, so that they can use labour costs subsidies for school leavers of VSO and Pro who have already started working and are among the target groups of the employment agreement. Of course, that calls for legislative changes. I'd like to come back to the Chamber and bring it all together. There were also questions about the target group criteria for the job appointment. I mentioned in the letter that we also agreed with the partners "We will look very closely at the assessments that the UWV has carried out so far in the spring of 2016. We look at the information resulting from a number of experimental gardens of municipalities and the UWV. The UWV also explores at my request the possibilities to make changes to the criteria for the target group. This information is taken into account in the consideration of how we proceed with the target group criteria for the job appointment. At present, there is still insufficient information to draw conclusions on the target group assessment of the UWV. I've already talked to the partners about that very well. They are of the same opinion. I have, of course, also listened carefully to Mr Heerma and Mr Van Weyenberg on this point. It is just something on the early side to look at how the assessment of the UWV relates to the measurement of wages at the workplace. Following the arrival of the pilots which are now being discussed in a number of municipalities in the Netherlands and which should lead to results in March, I would like to return to the Chamber to see what they have achieved.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u256	Among other things, from Cedris came of the week and disappointed reaction to the fact that the decision to set up that practice route was not taken. The Secretary of State says it's a little early. Does she find this reaction of Cedris premature? Does she expect it to happen on its own? Or do we need more information before we finally open up that practical route?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u257	The latter is the case. Last week I sat at the table with employers, employees, UWV and VNG and we came to this conclusion. Of course I also read Cedris' letter. I also read the nuance that's in it. Cedris argues that it might be a good idea for the measurement of pay at the workplace to become leading. I am not ruling that out, but I would like to have looked at that very closely with all of us first. The expertise of Cedris is, I would almost say, indispensable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u258	Cedris stands for: Dutch trade association for social employment and labour integration. I say that for the people who follow us at a distance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u259	Mr President, thank you very much for this explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u260	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It may be that the Secretary of State and I have interpreted that letter differently, because of course we have a different position in this debate. I believe that the term "missed opportunity" was included in that. Cedris and others do say that the practical route should be opened up, because employers are mentally withdrawing. Aldermen see those concerns, too. In what period could the practical route be opened up?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u261	We have now agreed with all of us, and this is also an intergovernmental agreement: the pilots will produce results at the beginning of March. Then again we sit together very quickly. I therefore expect to be able to return to the Chamber in April, May with the views of the pilots. At the request of municipalities and social partners, we have harmonised the no-riskpolis and the mobility bonus. I told you, it's in the First Chamber now. I hope she can find hers soon. Another point is that it is important that supply and demand are better coordinated in practice. Mrs Nijkerken and Mrs Schouten have drawn attention to this. A deal was made last week to improve the matching, so sticking people together. The Chamber will encourage regional public performers, for example in the form of performance agreements, to make validated job seeker profiles available. That is, of course, important. Municipal and UWV professionals, employers and private mediators will jointly examine work processes in order to learn from practice how these work processes can be organised more efficiently in the region. It is very important that municipalities and UWV know who the people are and what their competences and skills are. Of course, it is also important for employers to have a clear regional point of contact. There are regions where things are already going very well, such as Rijnmond and the Food Valley, the region around Ede. I notice that the UWV is also committed to making more profiles of Wajangers available. By now, there are over 18,000. The agreement is that the UWV of all people who come on call for a re-evaluation immediately creates a profile if it turns out that they can work. However, much remains to be done; so did the Chamber. Municipalities have an important role to play in particular. I've spoken to municipalities about this, and I will continue to do so. If there are signals from individual employers or from the drivers, Mr Van der Gaag and Mr Spigt, it is of course necessary to follow up on this. It is therefore essential for employers to bring this up with the regional Work Company themselves, because that is the place to be. The regional Work Company has already reached full maturity in one region and can be coloured a little more in the other region. It is therefore still important to be in conversation with the implementation. There is also a call for a nationwide information point for the biggest entrepreneurs in our country. We are now working on this with the UWV, the VNG and Locus, an institution that has been doing this for many years with the larger companies in our country. I will report to the Chamber on this too shortly. I would also like to say once again, under the motto 'frappez toujours' or 'keep hammering on', that I think it is very important that sheltered work should come from the ground. Some municipalities have made concrete strides. Leiden, for example, has started work very quickly, but that also applies to Zoetermeer, Breda, Almere, The Hague and Amsterdam. In short, there are already a large number of municipalities that are working on the team. Most municipalities, as I have also informed the Chamber, are willing to set up sheltered work, but still have to make the concrete translation of the actual realization of sheltered work. Therefore, in the early 2016 to 2020 period, the cabinet temporarily provides additional funds to support municipalities: five times 20 million. I also told the Chamber and the congregations that, should that not help, I would not be too bad to amend the law on this point. I'm gonna say that again now. Municipalities also have ideas to experiment with parts of the Participation Act. Mrs Voortman also mentioned hers, as did Mr Klein. I am open to innovative ways to develop the Participation Act and lead people to work. Of course, I think it is important that these experiments fit in with the spirit of the Act of Participation and are in line with the activating nature of that Act. From Social Affairs we actively participate in the development of the proposals. In December I will again speak to the aldermen of the four "precursors." Then we will all consider which AMvB we could prepare to launch the experiments. I am talking about the municipalities of Wageningen, Groningen, Utrecht and Tilburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u262	I think what the Secretary of State is saying now is better than what she indicated in the written reply. That said, the Secretary of State was going to look at whether and, if so, how it would proceed with this process. Now she says very clearly: there must be an AMvB. The motion adopted by me and a number of others in the Chamber also makes it very clear that there must be room for these four municipalities, but possibly also for other municipalities, to be able to experiment. I assume this is still the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u263	Sure. I have always said that a law is not an end in itself but a means. In the case of the Participation Act, the law is an instrument for helping people lead to the labour market. If you can perfect that law by experimenting, then I'm absolutely not wrong about that. Edoch I said that just as again it must of course be in the spirit of the law. I think that's essential. So if there are aldermen who don't see that as leitmotiv, then we can't. I have to make that very clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u264	I have always understood from the cabinet that the spirit of the Participation Act is to get people out of welfare. In my opinion, these aldermen, but also those of several other municipalities, have ideas about this and therefore want to experiment. So I guess we'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u265	That's a cheerful sound. Mr President, I come to my second subject, with your permission.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u266	That's also a cheerful sound.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u267	Well, not quite, because that's about poverty in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u268	No, not that. First, Mr Kerstens of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u269	I don't necessarily come up with a less cheerful sound. All in all, the Secretary of State used the English term "reshoring." For the people at home: this means that work is brought back to the Netherlands. That's one of the ways to create extra work. Often this work is very suitable for people with a distance from the labour market. In my contribution I referred to an experiment, a pilot, which is currently running in Brabant. This is an experiment with a model developed by the University of Tilburg. This model leads more often than not to the conclusion of entrepreneurs: either I get the work back or I don't move it abroad. I've asked the Secretary of State if she's willing to, if that experiment really turns out to be a success, roll it out all over the country, to support such a national rollout.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u270	Sure, even with a lot of pleasure. I see from companies that have already reshored... That's not Dutch at all! I see from companies that have already taken tasks and jobs back to the Netherlands that this really does put things right. Soon I will be speaking with Mr Wilthagen, the professor at Tilburg who has committed himself to this. I have an appointment with him. I shall therefore be very happy to do everything I can to carry this forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u271	There is a question from Mr Klein. I would just say, by the way, getting back to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u272	Yes, very nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u273	I have come a long way in response to the positive words of the Secretary of State about the experiment in Wageningen, Tilburg, Groningen and Utrecht and the follow-up. This is also seen in the municipalities concerned as an incentive for a basic income. Does the Secretary of State see it that way?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u274	No, and this is not seen in the municipalities concerned, at least not by the aldermen sitting at my table. They are talking about making the Law on Participation a ruler. That is a really different angle from what Mr Klein is now putting forward. So if the term "basic income" falls into this context, I say no.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u275	But isn't the intention of a basic income right that people get opportunities and therefore get more work and earn extra money, which is in line with what the Secretary of State is trying to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u276	I know the philosophy of those who love basic income. I also know the philosophy of those who do not find the basic income to be the egg of Columbus. I remain in the spirit of our law. The spirit of our law means that people really need to be led to work, because, of course, we all see that in front of us. That's why I insist that the spirit of the law is essential, even if you are experimenting. My second theme is the fight against poverty and debt relief. It may sound a little strange from my mouth, but it is very nice that the Chamber has said many words on this subject in its first term. I've heard the Chamber correctly, too. There is one thing that says that children should not grow up in poverty in our country. You will not be surprised that the cabinet has also put this issue very high on the agenda. We believe that next year's Dutch Presidency of the European Union will include the fight against poverty, especially among children throughout Europe. We also do this together with the children's ombudsmen in Europe. Member States can learn a lot from each other, and we are very keen to promote that. When I speak to colleagues in Europe, I also notice that everyone is very much in favour of this. We would very much like to highlight good examples from the Netherlands and vice versa. We also organise a peer review on the role of social neighbourhood teams in tackling poverty. In short, we are working very hard on this internationally, but at national level, so just in our country, we are working hard on it. The last poverty signature of the CBS and the SCP, which appeared in December last year, shows that the number of households at risk of poverty increased in 2013. I know that it was said at the time that the estimates could be slightly positive. So we have to wait and see what the 2014 report will bring. He'll be here soon. However, some families are still struggling with the aftermath of the crisis. This is also reflected in the House's report in the red figures, which I sent to the Chamber last week. There is still a risk of problematic debt for many households. The fight against this remains one of the priorities. We've cleared 100 million. I see during my work visits that municipalities do a lot of good things with that. Research also shows that municipal poverty and debt policies really make sense. I also think it is important to reiterate that many civil society organisations make valuable contributions. In addition, the special attention for children is a great asset. The Kinderombudsman has also called attention to the child package. This is a form that is already being grabbed by many municipalities. One in eight municipalities is already doing this. There is a motion for, I believe, Mrs Yücel which also encourages this. I'm in the process of further promoting the child package, because you can see that this is really helping kids. I think that's a great thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u277	Mr Ulenbelt, this is your sixth interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u278	I thought it was the fifth. Everyone talks about growth rates, but the best growth rates are, of course, seen in child poverty, child poverty. Under this cabinet, under the responsibility of this Secretary of State, the number went from 300,000 to 400,000, a growth of 33%. With this example, the Secretary of State wants to do the Presidency of Europe. That seems to me to be a bad example. Why does the Secretary of State sign an extra 800 million for the highest incomes? Why doesn't she spend that money on those 400,000 kids? Poverty can be fought with money for an important part. Why doesn't she? Why is she stuck at $100 million? It's gonna take a lot more, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u279	I did not say for nothing that the cabinet is investing 100 million in the fight against poverty, and not just that. I've been Secretary of State before. In 2009, we had European targets to combat poverty enormously across Europe and significantly reduce the number of people living in poverty. I have to say that this has not been achieved throughout Europe. That's sad. It's the crisis. We all understand that, but we are not going to let it go, because it is essential that we simply help these people. I am sure that Mr Ulenbelt agrees with me very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u280	Now the Secretary of State really underlines that she doesn't make the difference, because it happens everywhere. That makes a lot of sense if you don't put money in it and if you let the cost of care, rent and so on go up. Why has the Secretary of State not succeeded in reducing the growth of 100,000 extra children in poverty? Isn't that because she doesn't put enough money in it? It's simple, isn't it? Will this work before the end of this cabinet term? Do we then half the poverty of children? That is a measurable objective and the VVD also very much wants it. Shall we then meet "halving"?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u281	I wish it were that simple. I think we are all doing everything we can to combat poverty. The municipalities are helping greatly, and so is the Chamber, because it has also voiced a number of things that you can say to. I also see that the child packages and foundations such as the Stichting Leergeld, Youth Sports Fund and Youth Culture Fund are very helpful in this respect. I am thinking here of a few examples. This is how children in the municipality of Leeuwarden themselves think about the child package. The municipality of Opsterland looks very closely with the parents what you can do with the child package. That really saves a lot. So I have good hopes that municipalities will carry this on. Fortunately, our economy is also much better. You always see that this is after-delirium. Not for nothing last year CBS said: it is still complicated, but our estimates look slightly positive. So there is light at the end of the tunnel, but that does not mean that we have to stick to it if I may express myself like this for the best result.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u282	In my contribution, I asked for the reservation made by the Netherlands with regard to Article 26 of the International Convention on the Rights of the Child. In the written reply, the cabinet states that the Netherlands has done so because children can receive assistance through their parents and parents are always entitled to it. However, there are situations in which this is not the case. The Secretary of State states that he wishes to investigate whether an adjustment would not be necessary. Can it look explicitly at the situation of these parents in that study, where the starting point is that children should have the right to assistance if parents do not have it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u283	I received a petition this afternoon from two special parties, Save the Children and Defence for Childeren. I have told them that I will look very closely at the situation. 25 years ago, the Netherlands signed and ratified the treaty referred to by Mrs Voortman. With that, the Netherlands actually accepts the whole treaty. Article 26 lays down the obligation to recognise for each child the right to benefit from the benefits of the social security system. We have made reservations about this, but we have recognised the entire treaty, and it is not the case that children suffer from it. As I have also said to both clubs, I would like to look very closely at the situation with both defenders. For example, should this reservation be maintained for legal reasons? I will take into account the point that Mrs Voortman is right to raise here. Because if parents don't take good care of their children, not only because they don't have the finances, but also because they don't have the money.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u284	I'm glad to hear that. Through the President, I would like to present a number of examples that the Secretary of State can involve in her investigation. When does she intend to inform us about the results of the study?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u285	I can imagine doing that in spring. I want to plan that conversation soon. I can then send the results to the Chamber in the spring.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u286	Mrs Voortman, if you would like to pass on these examples to the Registrar, they can be added to the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u287	It is important to mention that I remain committed to promoting prevention. We've talked about that many times. I have spoken with the banking sector in the footsteps of the telecoms sector. I also notice that he wants to make a contribution to prevent debt. So that's what I'm gonna keep doing. Prevention and integral cooperation is a spearhead. In that context, we have been asked about the under-management. In order to offer the right instrument, it is important that municipalities know the people about who it is, so that they can deliver customization. If municipalities indeed do so, the municipality of Arnhem is an example. Important steps have been taken in addressing debt policy over the past period. I would like to look, together with the VNG, at how we can proceed with the regime. I have sent the Chamber and the VNG a report showing which groups are involved. I would point out to aldermen that they are very keen to get involved in this consultation, because the special assistance pot is being called upon and we need to ensure that it is offered solace. Then, of course, we have a number of milestones, because on 1 January 2016, all bailiffs will be obliged to join the attachment register. This will improve the protection of the foot free from fittings. The Chamber knows that the next step is that we want to simplify the rules around that unhindered foot, because it is, of course, just miserable when people fall below that unhindered foot. They will then have too little money to provide for their livelihood. That is not desirable, of course. This step prepares the cabinet in close cooperation with parties from the field. I intend to send to the Chamber a key note on the simplification of the free-of-wound foot for the Christmas holidays. The necessary legislation will then follow in 2016. I hope that the parliamentary debate will be completed by early 2017, so that the parties can implement the new rules. In this context, Mrs Schouten asked what I could do to further strengthen the tax administration's respect for the unwound footage. It is good to report that the Tax Administration, like all other seizure agents, is facing the same problem, namely that the unwound foot is incredibly complicated. So the Tax Administration also thinks very much about how to simplify it. I note that my colleague, the Secretary of State for Finance, is committed to bringing to the attention of his staff the respect for this unwound foot. Mr Krol asked about the role of the government. According to the Association for Debt Assistance, the government should no longer be the first to take its turn if debts are to be recovered. In itself, I understand that cry of hearts, but it is about community money, about public resources. The abolition of all preferences for public organisations is neither desirable nor necessary in order to achieve a better manageable unhindered foothold. In the context of that batter-free foot, we are now also looking very closely at the debt collection ways, because these debt collection instruments vary. It's frightening when you see how fines can sometimes pile up. So we are in the process of looking at how to decorate the collection instruments, including from the government, that this accumulation does not have to be dealt with in this way anymore. I can see that the government's idea of debt collection, because that is what it is all about, is that colleagues in the cabinet can really count on their support. So I'm glad to hear that. The Chamber will, of course, be informed of this. Mrs Schouten asked me if I am prepared to examine the possibility of secondary preference. That means you're trying to give housing corporations a preference, as it were. I am not in favour of this, because then we will have new preferences and new specific creditors. Nor does this contribute to a structural solution to debt problems. So I see more in better protection of the batter-free foot. If you are really working preventively, then home expulsions can often be prevented. I have seen a very good example of this in Amsterdam. There's the phenomenon of Early Edge. If corporations have to deal with rent delays, they contact the municipality and are really actively stepped off on tenants and acted preventively. We are in the process of providing the Chamber with the necessary legislation for the broad legal moratorium in 2016. This also applies to the evaluation of the Municipal Debt Assistance Act. This evaluation was launched last June. Mrs Yücel asked whether it would be possible to focus more on tailor-made work for people in debt relief, for example through personal contact between debtor and creditor. She asked if the district teams could play a role in this. The answer to that is yes. Debt relief is not a standard service. Partly due to the crisis, a larger and significantly more diverse group has come into contact with debt problems. This has also had an impact on the provision of services, in which I see increasingly diverse products emerging. Examples of this are different types of service, e.g. Switch!, a very nice initiative that will enable people who have been in trouble through mortgage debts with municipalities and banks to get back to business together. For the sake of clarity, I would like to say a few words in two sentences about what we are doing in the BES Islands. The Chamber is always closely involved. Partly thanks to the Chamber, we are in the process of introducing child benefit. The First Chamber handled that as a hammer piece this week. That's very funny. On 1 January, the child benefit can take shape there. I see that Mr Mulder is very pleased with that. That's nice. The increase in the statutory minimum wage and benefits is now also being discussed. I see that Mr Mulder likes that, too. That's good, too. However, the level of provision on the islands is a serious issue of attention. The Spies Committee has put a number of things on paper that we really need to give answers to. I'm sure I intend to. These are very nice steps when it comes to giving those answers. The Chamber has adopted a Van Laar motion calling for attention to be paid to maternity leave in the Caribbean Netherlands. I am sympathetic to that. I will talk to interested parties there about combining work and care, and I will see whether we can provide this motion with resources in the spring note. Then the...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u288	...pensions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u289	You have a good feeling about the issues, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u290	We keep the momentum a little. That's what everyone wants.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u291	I have noticed that in the first term the Chamber did not give all the attention in the world to the issue of pensions. I understand that, because we often have debates on the provision of old age. It should be clear that there is broad attention to the financial situation of pension funds. I should also like to look at Mr Krol, who has drawn attention to this. I keep saying that it is a great good thing that we in the Netherlands have the AOW, because with that everyone can count on a good basis for his or her old age. It is also important that in recent years we have secured our pension system, our second pillar, by adjusting supplementary pensions. Of course, the financial review framework helps to calm down in these turbulent times, because because interest rates are low, it is extremely complicated for pension funds. For self-employed persons it is settled that they do not have to eat their pension under the Participation Act. In doing so, they have the assurance that the pension for which they have worked hard can actually be used for old age. It is good that the Chamber has also agreed to this. Furthermore, governance has improved and information for the participants has become more understandable and insightful with the Pension Communication Act. These are all steps forward. I see Mr Krol wants to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u292	We thought, "Where the hell is he?" But there he is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u293	Now that the Secretary of State is talking about retirement communication, I note the following. A motion tabled by Mrs Lodders and signed by several Members of Parliament was adopted on 25 February this year. It seems as if the Secretary of State has forgotten that motion, because we have read nothing about it in the written reply. When will the Secretary of State keep her promise that she will give further information to the Chamber on this subject this year? The year's almost over.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u294	Mr Krol should not make me think that I do not have any clarity as to what that motion was about. Could he tell me that? It is a motion by Mrs Lodders, but she has tabled more motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u295	The motion was tabled on 25 February 2015. The motion calls on the government to add third pillar products, such as annuities, to the pension register as soon as possible, to allow access for pensioners and to inform the Chamber of progress by the end of the year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u296	It's February 2nd now, so I have some time for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u297	December 2nd.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u298	Sorry, I mean December 2nd; the motion was tabled in February. I'll see if I can let the Chamber know about this before Christmas.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u299	In this context, I would like to draw the Secretary of State's attention to the proposal that we made to see whether it is not nice to link this type of information to banking apps. I'd really like to show you how easy that would be. Of course, there are wonderful other methods, but people don't look at them every day. You look at a bank statement a few times a month anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u300	In my written reply, I shared this with the Chamber. I can't wait to see you. I think Mr Krol understood that correctly. That does not alter the fact that I will be sending a few things to the Chamber before Christmas, but not on this part. Recently, together with the Netherlands Bank and the CPB, and also with the involvement of the Pension Federation and the Foundation of Labour, we have conducted a study on the state of play of funds. I am well aware that it is difficult for social partners to make agreements, but I think it is all the more important that we look closely at the way in which we deal with our pension system in the future. Let me stress once again that we have a really good system here in our country, precisely because we can rely on three pillars. We are currently considering what the pension system of the 21st century could look like. I am also doing this in close consultation with the Chamber. I understand that the Chamber held a hearing last week, that there will be a hearing next week and that on 20 January we will conclave on the new style of pension system. A future-proof pension system is essential, and I see that the Court is very much in agreement with me. It's an extensive and complex operation, and you don't do it in the afternoon. That is why it is very important that we take time together. Mr Van Weyenberg asked me in that context what follow-up steps I am going to take. I intend to forward to the Chamber for the general consultation on 20 January a detailed work programme, which also addresses the questions of impact on the abolition of the average system. That was the real question that was raised here. Mr President, I think I have come to the end of my speech. There are two amendments that I should like to respond to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u301	A lot of people feel betrayed by the statements made by the Secretary of State in October 2009. Then she said, "People, that AOW age should be raised, otherwise we will have no more teachers and masters for the classroom and no more hands on the bed." So there should be a huge shortage of people now, but there is not at all. Did the Secretary of State cross the line on the Labour Party's members' council with absolutely wrong information? If so, does she admit that she should not have done so?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u302	I have always said, and I keep saying, that it is very logical and thoughtful to work with all of them longer than when the AOW was introduced at the time of Drees, because people are now getting a lot older. I remember very well how we began to think carefully in 2009 about increasing the age of AOW. That was really a new phenomenon at the time. I have to say now that the average fellow man also realizes that it is almost logical to keep working a little longer when everyone gets so much older than at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u303	The Secretary of State gave up on that member council and then as her main argument that otherwise there would be no teachers in the classroom and that there would be no caregivers and bakers anymore. The Netherlands would be clogged by a shortage of people, due to a shortage of hands. Does the Secretary of State agree that the argument she used at the time is not valid now because we have an unemployment rate of more than 600,000 people?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u304	The most important argument is, of course, that we all live longer. In addition, the prognosis at the time was that the labour market would become tight. So that was in time before the crisis struck. But the crisis then struck and that is, of course, a fact. Mr Ulenbelt has a point there, but that does not mean that the most important argument is and remains that we all live longer and that we therefore need to work a little longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u305	After this passion, I am very prosaic in switching to the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u306	That is indeed very prosaic. I shall begin with the amendment to item No. 19 members of Van Dekken and Yücel who reserve an additional €2.5 million for the Youth Sport Fund. The applicants also want to do so in the 2017 budget. I'll take note of that. I can leave the opinion on this amendment to the House. The second amendment that I...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u307	We are talking about the amendment to item No. 17. You said 19.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u308	I said 17.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u309	So we are talking about the amendment to item No. 17.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u310	I have a question about the coverage of that amendment. Where did that money come from?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u311	These funds are intended for poverty and debt relief, promoting entrepreneurship, promoting participation in the labour market and implementing and supporting the implementation of the Participation Act. Some of the funds are legally required. I expect that, within that total budget, 2.5 million can be released for this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u312	Is that part of the 100 million or is it a different game?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u313	That last one. I come to the second amendment, the amendment to item No. 18 members Koser Kaya and Van Weyenberg. The aim of this amendment is to help children with much less opportunities to develop themselves with projects that transcend the local domain and are not regionalised. The financing is covered by the item nominal and unforeseen. In itself this is a sympathetic amendment, but unfortunately I cannot agree with the coverage from the post nominal and unforeseen. I cannot therefore leave this amendment to the House's discretion either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u314	You say, "Don't leave judgment room." So that's, uh, dissuade?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u315	Dissuade, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u316	You do have to make explicit judgments. Otherwise, it's gonna get a little clumsy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u317	Excuse me. I don't recommend it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u318	This is something I never understand so well. That item is nominal and unforeseen, so we don't know. It turns out that there are already a lot of plans for this kind of money, such as childcare. I get that. But there is just 40 million left which has nothing in the budget to do with it. Does the Secretary of State want to admit that it is perfectly possible, in itself, to withdraw that money, but that she does not seem to want to do so? I'd really like to hear why she doesn't want to. I believe that this coverage complies with all the budgetary rules. What, then, is the substantive objection to freeing up a modest but important amount of money for the aid of children in poverty in a jar that has no record of what is going to happen to them?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u319	That is a fair question from Mr Van Weyenberg. He will receive the following answer. I notice that the post nominally and unexpectedly is once again really needed every year to provide a solution to matters that are manifesting themselves in the course of the year. This means that we are not already using this item in this way before the new financial year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u320	That is a clear answer, or would you like to ask another question, Mr Van Weyenberg?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u321	I think we are also asking these questions in two, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u322	Only if it makes sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u323	Otherwise, I won't be standing here. This was called a debate, I believe, the last time I looked. What I do not understand is that during the whole year I am also looking at the past year, with great regularity, all plans come from the cabinet for which money has always been found suddenly. How can it be that, for a year or so, resources are often found in favour of the cabinet's initiative, but that on the day when the Chamber wants to use the right of amendment, it does not seem to be a penny in one way or another?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u324	I think I'm gonna tell you a little bit of the familiarity when I say that the Chamber has budget rights and that I'm supposed to give an opinion from the Cabinet on an amendment that has been tabled. Of course, the Chamber is always free to use that budget right, but the opinion of the Cabinet is that this amendment is not recommended because the coverage is not accepted by us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u325	This brings us to the end of the intervention of the Secretary of State. We still have the Minister's advice on the amendments. Minister, if you can do it with that microphone, you're gonna have to hold it. Otherwise, we're gonna have to do a change.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u326	Okay, that might be practical. Mr. Chairman. I have one more amendment here. I understand that there are more; I have to look at that. This is Mr Van Weyenberg's amendment on inspection. I find that very sympathetic in itself. I just think I should discourage it in this form. He adds 3 million to the 2016 budget, while much less is needed in that year. Perhaps this will be looked at for a moment on the way to the second term. I understand the goal of not phasing out the 35 inspectors. However, this is not the way to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u327	It is about the amendment to item No. 14, let me add.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u328	The goal is, of course, to do something on top of it. For many years now, I have tabled an amendment which seems to me, as the Minister knows, to strengthen the inspection. What, according to the Minister, would be a reasonable amount? I am happy to meet him if that increases the chance of the amendment being adopted.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u329	I understand that praise and bidding has already begun.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u330	Let me wait until the second term before I say anything about it. I would just like to point out that it would be undesirable. With that amount, you're gonna hire a lot of people you're gonna have to fire the year after that. That is not convenient, because the phase-out in 2016 is very limited, I think only 2 fte. I must therefore discourage the amendment in this form. I'm not in the foliage-and-offer stand yet, I want to do that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u331	The aim is to add 35 fte to it structurally. If you accept all 35 in the following year, this amendment also regulates money for the following years. I look forward to the praise and the bidding, because my goal is more inspectors.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u332	Does the Minister have any other amendments that he can give an opinion on? I see that this is not the case at the moment. I suggest the Chamber proceed immediately with the second term. I noticed that there was already drifting back and forth due to possible motions. Mrs Voortman, do you have a point of order?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u333	I would like to have a reply from the Minister to the amendment to item No. 22. I had just saved my last interruption for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u334	The amendment in part No. 22.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u335	My suggestion would be that Mrs Voortman should keep her interruption for a while. This is one of the amendments that came in during the debate. I don't have a reaction to it yet. I'm going to study them and in the second term I'll give my advice on them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u336	But then I'm gonna take a nag. I believe that the question was raised earlier as to whether at the end of the State Secretary's contribution you could give your opinion on the amendments. So that didn't work out?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u337	We could have done that for the other amendment. I could also have advised on the amendments that the Secretary of State has just discussed, but I cannot do so on this one. And I really want to do justice to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u338	Okay. Then that comes in the second term. I see there's no need for a suspension. We'll continue with the second term as soon as possible. I would like to give the floor to Mr Ulenbelt, on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u339	Mr. Chairman. I have a number of motions. Let's start with a momentary motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the situation in Calais is completely out of control and that the safety of drivers is at risk;]] [[calls on employers in the transport sector to avoid the route via Calais for the time being in the interests of safety, pending a solution,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ulenbelt and Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XV-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u340	My next motion will be tabled together with Mr Van Weyenberg of D66. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the adaptation of the Daily Wage Decision as of July 2015 leads to a significantly lower WW benefit in a number of situations;]] [[noting that the government claims that this constitutes unintentional savings;]] [[considers that the adjustment of the Daily Wage Decision as proposed by the Government does not fully solve the problem;]] [[calls on the Government to amend the Daily Wage Decision in accordance with the opinion of the Labour Foundation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ulenbelt and Mr Van Weyenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XV-24]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u341	Then a motion with Van Weyenberg, Voortman and Siderius. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that it is impossible to apply for childcare allowance if one of the payment partners is unable to work or take care of the children because of illness or disability;]] [[noting that, in such a situation, families are financially disadvantaged because they do not receive childcare allowances;]] [[calls on the Government to make an exception to the childcare allowance scheme, so that families where one of the payment partners is unable to take care of the children for a long time or at all due to illness or disability and to participate in the labour market can still receive childcare allowance, and inform the Chamber thereof before the summer of 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ulenbelt, Mr Van Weyenberg, Mr Voortman and Mr Siderius. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XV-25]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u342	Yeah, I'm trying my stinking ass! I will table the next motion together with Mrs Voortman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, on the basis of Article 26 of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, children are entitled to social security;]] [[noting that risky and potentially poignant situations arise in which young children are starving or are likely to be expelled from their homes;]] [[Calls on the Government to withdraw the reservation on Article 26 of the International Convention on the Rights of the Child;]] [[calls on the Government to develop policies to incorporate this "right to" into the social security system,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a poll showed that 69% of the Dutch population are opposed to further raising the AOW age;]] [[calls on the government to send a proposal to the Chamber as soon as possible to reverse the increase in the AOW age in 2016 and thus to meet the wish of two thirds of the Dutch population,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas more than half of the recipients of assistance receive assistance for more than three years and that the risk of outflow decreases as a person receives assistance for a longer period of time;]] [[Whereas the low income benefit (LIV) will become available from 2017 onwards;]] [[Calls on the Government to prepare for the provision of EUR 440 million from the LIV funds for municipalities that create new jobs for long-term welfare recipients, provided that the remuneration takes place in accordance with the minimum wage or above, and concerning jobs are achieved within the municipal organisation or organisations with which the municipality concerned has a grant relationship;]] [[calls on the Government to decide that the resulting outflow has no impact on the BUIG budget of the municipalities concerned,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the bridging regime (OBR) now offers a solution for a small group;]] [[noting that due to under-exhaustment of the OBR resources are over;]] [[calls on the Government to send to the Court a proposal using unspent funds to increase the maximum level of benefit of the OBR,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas unemployment among older people is high;]] [[calls on the Government to suspend the application requirement for people aged 60 and over,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ulenbelt and Mr Voortman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XV-26]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ulenbelt and Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XV-27]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ulenbelt and Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XV-28]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ulenbelt and Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XV-29]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ulenbelt and Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XV-30]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u343	I didn't know I could do it that fast. I've got two more! [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the fact that there is a growing shortage of social employment services and that this has an impact on the management of social work companies and on the remuneration of workers in the social employment sector;]] [[noting that part of the budget for the sector plans has been unused and can therefore be invested in the social employment services for its employees;]] [[calls on the government to use EUR 57 million from the sector plans to compensate for the expected deterioration in the operating performance of social services and the lower wage costs of SW employees in 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ulenbelt and Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XV-31]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u344	Last one! [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that one in eight municipalities has a child package and that it depends on the municipality in which the child lives or a child in poverty is adequately supported for social participation;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that all municipalities offer families with an income up to a minimum of 120% of the social minimum a child package that meets the basic needs and participation of the child,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ulenbelt and Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XV-32]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u345	I'm gonna call it a day!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u346	Mr. Chairman. I take over with nine motions, two motions from me and Mr Ulenbelt. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas segregation is increasing and 80% of migrant children in large cities do not have access to mixed primary education;]] [[noting that rent liberalisation and the sale of social housing strengthen the segregation;]] [[calls on the Government to come up with plans for living together in neighbourhoods and neighbourhoods, to make agreements with schools and municipal authorities on mixed education and to support parental initiatives for mixed schools,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas discrimination in the labour market is a persistent problem;]] [[calls on the Government to start trials on anonymous applications with one or more municipalities and to set up the use of mystery guests in applications,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Karabulut and Mr Ulenbelt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XV-33]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Karabulut and Mr Ulenbelt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XV-34]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u347	Of course, tonight's biggest disappointment is that I have no signature under a declaration of credibility from the Minister, but that can still come. Night's not over yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u348	Mr. Chairman. Yesterday I said that the results are still insufficient and that it is sometimes difficult to determine what the Minister can be paid for. I have heard that many of my colleagues in the Chamber are also critical and urge the Minister to do more. I note today that the Minister has listened carefully, that he shares our ambition to raise the bar and set more concrete goals. He too is not satisfied. The Minister has been given homework. About the seasonal workers, he said there would be a scout to show the problems. That will happen before 1 May. In the meantime, we have heard that there are sectors where this may have to be speeded up. I'm counting on the scout to do the same faster in those cases. Concrete and manageable ambitions in the area of older people's unemployment will come to our attention this spring. With regard to the removal of polder in the area of the supra-legal collective agreement provisions, the Minister also has ambition. I think that is a positive development. The minister's on the move. In the spring we see his homework.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u349	The big question is, what is the figure?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u350	I think it is a positive development today that the Minister is moving. He's gonna do homework. In the course of the summer we will see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u351	Has it now become an insufficient one?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u352	I notice the Minister's moving. We believe that this is a positive development.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u353	Oh, dear, Mr. Mulder seems to have rehearsed a sentence. I ask the question in different terms. During today's debate, Mr Mulder was not a caustic bulldog. He has placed a few interruptions and on a number of points the Minister has been somewhat sympathetic, but he cannot claim that the judgment after today has changed from what he was standing here last night. I repeat Mr Dijkgraaf's question. Does Mr Mulder consider this Minister's policy to be inadequate? On the basis of today, he cannot say that the Minister has turned the wheel. If he does, I am very curious to hear the Minister's answer in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u354	Yesterday I said that the results are still insufficient. I note today that the Minister has listened and will inform us about his ambitions in the course of the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u355	So there are two sentences. This is one sentence; the other is the sentence that is repeated over and over again. To be honest, I find this a weakness offer. I address Mr Mulder as a respected colleague. He's put on a really big pair of pants about this minister's performance. The Minister has made a number of commitments today to Mr Mulder and many other colleagues, but Mr Mulder cannot honestly claim that this minister has moved. I repeat my question and I hope that Mr Mulder has the courage to answer it. He didn't think it was enough yesterday. What does he think today?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u356	I said it and I keep saying it: today I think the Minister has listened very carefully. He's going to work on some of the important issues I've raised, and he's coming to the Chamber with this, towards the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u357	Would it not be an idea for the VVD to indicate more clearly what is the homework that this minister should do? For example, I would like to table a motion myself later to examine the possibility of having a second temporary contract for a longer period of time. That is something the VVD advocated in the first term. Could that count on the support of the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u358	I said what we asked of the Minister. That's what he's gonna do. I await the motion of GroenLinks. I also said that we need to see how the law works first. Where he doesn't work out well, we need to adjust. We did. Now there's a scout coming and we're gonna see how that law goes. If there's a reason, maybe we can do something else. But for now, we will continue with this law, the Work and Security Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u359	But yesterday the VVD also indicated in the first term that it would like to know within three months what the bottlenecks are and if necessary to make adjustments to them. So it's going to be five or six months. The VVD also finds this an important bottleneck. Wouldn't it make sense for you to say from such an important bottleneck that it needs to be investigated?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u360	If there's any real bottlenecks, we're gonna take a look at that. That's what we did to this law. That's what the Minister's doing today. That's the order of things.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u361	In the debate yesterday I mentioned Mr Mulder the polderjihadist. I have noticed that the Minister has disassembled it quite nicely today and that he will not come back to it any further either. At least, so far, he doesn't. I was full of admiration for all of Mr Mulder's beautiful pirouets, but yes, he has gone a bit along with it. Next time, would he use the style of numbers again in this parliament?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u362	I say it again: we have been well listened to, the Minister is going to work and he is going to do so in the coming weeks and months, in the spring.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u363	Mr Mulder repeats it very often. I will ask the question in a different way. Suppose he hadn't put in that "insufficient" story and hadn't given the minister a few miserable days, on which he had to go to Pauw, explain all kinds of plans here and sleep badly. Wouldn't the minister have listened to him? Wouldn't the minister have moved? Didn't he make those promises?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u364	I can't say, because that's what happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u365	I think that's really weak. I believe that Mr Mulder's ability to lend himself to this type of practice is even weaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u366	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u367	I get the game...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u368	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u369	Why are you being so hard on me?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u370	Because time is progressing. What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u371	We have had Mr Bosma here. I think we should ask Mr Bosma to take back the President's hammer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u372	If you'd like to put forward an order proposal to send me out of here tonight, you should do it. I'm just trying to provide an objective direction here. If you don't accept that, sit down. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u373	I'm trying to tell you that you must treat everyone equally, including small parties. Even though you're the biggest party.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u374	Can you ask your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u375	Yes. I have a question for the biggest party. They've made a fool of themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u376	I take note of that and also of Mr Öztürk's remark that he understands the game.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u377	I think you've already interrupted, Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u378	Sure, but I have one last question. My intention is that you will not see me again here, except when the amendments are discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u379	It's gonna be a sport for me to say the same thing again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u380	We'll see. I have a question. Mr Mulder is talking about homework. I've heard him say that sentence five times now. He says the minister has to do homework now and then he'll judge. Has he actually put the Minister under curatel as far as he is concerned?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u381	The minister's gonna do homework. That's what he brings to the Chamber and then we give a judgment about it, just like always.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u382	I think we are repeating ourselves very much, Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u383	I'm just trying to get an answer to my question. Mr Mulder has given the same answer for the fifth time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u384	You will receive an answer, only it is the answer you do not want to hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u385	I'll try for the last time. The answer has already been given five times, but I will then rephrase the question. Has the Minister been put under curately by the VVD, after the insufficient, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u386	The Minister has received homework and we're going to judge it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u387	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister and the Secretary of State for their first-term replies. I would like to make a number of motions on behalf of the VVD, starting with a motion requesting the release of 10 million for the delays at UWV. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the WGA is intended to be a scheme aimed at the resumption of work;]] [[Whereas the UWV is lagging behind in the professional re-evaluations of persons for whom a recovery forecast has been provided by insurance doctors;]] [[noting that research carried out by the UWV shows that due to the professional re-evaluations, the degree of incapacity for work changes in 62% of cases;]] [[Whereas the Minister indicated that, partly due to budgetary considerations, the UWV has been able to carry out fewer re-evaluations;]] [[calls on the government, EUR 10 million, to make available to the UWV as a public contribution to address the gaps in the UWV in 2016, to finance from reintegration tools disability,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Nijkerken-de Haan and Mr Vermeij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XV-35]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u388	I see a motion. I actually have one question for Mrs Nijkerken: why did you not do it in the form of an amendment? After all, that is the royal route in this house when we deal with a budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u389	We had a little talk about it. I understand there was a motion to do this. Perhaps Mrs Vermeij should answer this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u390	The co-signator Vermeij gets the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u391	Allow me to be somewhat helpful to Mrs Nijkerken. We have had a discussion with the General Court about budget law, about what exactly we have budget law about. In this case it is precisely the issue that we discussed at the time and will therefore have to be dealt with by means of a motion, because it has a different route. In fact, as a Chamber, I think we have decided to have another discussion about the whole of budget law. Hence this route, which is indeed unusual.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u392	Like this answer via the band.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u393	Thank you, Mrs Vermeij, for your support. Then I come to the pay for success contracts. As I pointed out yesterday, the issue of reintegration lends itself well to projects with full private implementation where the role of the government is limited to providing motivated candidates. That's why I'm filing a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that several billion euros are spent annually on reintegration;]] [[having noted that the rapporteurs in the 2016 SZW budget, as well as the rapporteurs in the 2015 SZW accounting documents, pointed to the lack of understanding of the effectiveness of reintegration and its relationship with the costs incurred;]] [[Whereas more people may be given a chance to enter the labour market through the involvement of private parties that make an investment through a pay for success contract, that investment and any return on investment only if actual outflow is realised and thereby enhances the effectiveness of reintegration;]] [[Whereas projects such as Workshop Rotterdam Zuid have already started working on this principle;]] [[calls on the Government to closely monitor developments in these reintegration projects on the basis of pay for success, in particular in view of the effectiveness of the approach, to identify and, if necessary, to remove any legal obstacles and to regularly inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Member Nijkerken-de Haan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XV-36]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u394	My final motion concerns making money available to enable Pentasz's concrete approach to cross-border work in more border municipalities. This motion was co-signed by Mr Kerstens. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are many vacancies across the German and Belgian borders;]] [[noting that there is an initiative for a joint sectoral plan of border regions with the intention to make the most of effective existing municipal initiatives;]] [[having noted that the Pentasz social service in South Limburg has developed a very simple method by which a worker who knows the labour market well across the border connects employees and employers and guides people in their application process;]] [[whereas this approach is successful because many people are now at work;]] [[calls on the Government to provide this Pentasz approach for both the German and Belgian labour markets as a condition for implementation in the allocation of funding for the cross-border sector plan and to mobilise EUR 2 million for municipalities wishing to adopt such an approach,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Nijkerken-de-Haan and Mr Kerstens. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XV-37]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u395	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank both directors for their first-term replies and specifically the Minister for his commitment to redirect to the ESC the suggestions on sickness pay and basic insurance so that they can work on a new deal, in the words of the Minister. I am very curious to see what we can expect for the summer. I very much look forward to the debates on this. I am also pleased that the Minister voted in favour of the booklet I lent him yesterday. I was looking forward to the letter we will receive following the motion by former colleague Van Dam on shared values. Following that letter and what is in the booklet, we will continue the debate. With regard to the debate on seasonal work and the consequences of WWW, I am pleased that the Minister has taken a step in this debate; that is also a good thing. However, I still have concerns about the time limit set. That is just what I indicated in the first-term debate on the interruption. Mr Mulder mentioned a three-month deadline yesterday. I have also received the signal from several sectors over the last few weeks that this would be the deadline within which necessary steps will be taken. In support of the steps already taken by the Minister in the first term, I would like to table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the full implementation of the chain regime within the WWS could lead to a significant loss of jobs in sectors in which one is dependent on seasonal work;]] [[whereas collective agreement parties have the possibility to make different agreements, thereby preventing job losses;]] [[Whereas, in the agricultural and horticultural sector, constructive discussions are now being held by workers' and employers' organizations on different arrangements and a solution for maintaining seasonal work seems to be in sight;]] [[considers that it is important that other sectors, in which there is a high level of seasonal work, follow this example;]] [[calls on the Government to take the initiative to reach a solution in consultation with these sectors in order to avoid job losses in seasonal work and to inform the Chamber of its results before 15 March 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Pieter Heerma and Mr Van Weyenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XV-38]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u396	My second motion concerns the protection regime. I asked questions about this in the first place. Mr Schouten has devoted a fairly large part of her contribution to this. This is a discussion we have been having for a long time. Divosa and several municipalities have also expressed concerns about this. The Secretary of State has said a number of things about this, in connection with, among other things, the consultation she is conducting with municipalities. Together with Mr Schouten, I will table the next motion to ask for a number of specific cases from the Secretary of State. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the number of people in protection management is increasing significantly, that the outflow remains low and that municipalities therefore pay the bill through the special assistance;]] [[Considering that local poverty policies and municipal debt relief are under threat due to an increasing impact on the poverty budget from the cost of protection management;]] [[calls on the Government to consult municipalities and courts to:]] [[to amend the Law on Curatel, Protection Board and mentoring to ensure that, in the event of a request for protection, the judge asks for the opinion of municipalities or for a less extensive provision;]] [[examine the possibility of more temporary forms of protection management in the event of problematic debt;]] [[to assess the capacity of municipalities to cope with the cost of protection management,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Pieter Heerma and Mr Schouten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XV-39]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u397	Mr. Chairman. I had two motions prepared. I had prepared one of them together with Mr Schouten. The motion was about the request that the Minister had promised to pass on to the ESC, following the motion in the First Chamber on the approach to structural unemployment and Mr Heerma's idea of pay transfer. In fact, the Minister has already added so much to that in his reply that we have decided not to table that motion. Here's what I'd like to say. There is a deadline attached to it: for the summer. Advice requests always last a while. So there must be some haste. I ask the rulers to involve us well and keep us well, otherwise we will lose sight of the deadline. I see that Mr Mulder agrees with me. There has been a lot of discussion in the last few days. We have our concerns about employment and, in particular, unemployment and its structural aspects. However, we also have concerns about finding a job, about young people struggling to find a job, if they can finish their studies, and about labour market discrimination. On this last subject, I shall table a motion for a resolution. It is a little along the lines of what Mrs Karabulut has already argued. The motion reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in the Netherlands everyone counts fully and is fully part of society;]] [[noting that the unequal treatment, disadvantage or exclusion of people on the basis of (personal) characteristics that are irrelevant hampers the equivalence of people;]] [[noting that discrimination in the labour market is still far too often experienced and prevented;]] [[Whereas anonymous application may in some cases counteract prejudices in the application process;]] [[Whereas anonymous application may be one of the means of combating labour market discrimination;]] [[Whereas, on the basis of experience elsewhere in Europe, local initiatives have also been launched or set up in the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the Government to actively promote and monitor local tests with anonymous application and to send the results and follow-up steps to the Chamber before the summer recess and, of course, to continue to fight discrimination,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Vermeij and Mr Van Weyenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XV-40]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u398	I would like to add one more sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u399	Would you like to add another sentence to the motion? You state: no, but you indicate the subsequent considerations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u400	I would like to point out that it also feels a bit like a capitulation we have exchanged that word among ourselves because we really hope that it does not have to be and because this is a means that also has hooks and eyes on it. However, our concerns are so great that we want to see if it works. I think we have given together not only a busy agenda to the government, but also to ourselves. In this respect, I also look forward to working hard in the coming year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u401	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by thanking the Minister and the Secretary of State for the answers and explanations they have given. I've got four motions, which I'm about to read out in a hurry. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it has been agreed that the public authorities and private employers will jointly provide 125,000 job guarantees for people with disabilities;]] [[noting that the first mid-term measurement of the employment agreement has shown that, for its part, the government is lagging behind in setting up these guarantee jobs so far;]] [[believes that the government should set a good example in fulfilling guarantee jobs;]] [[invites the Government, in the short term, to inform the Chamber of the actions undertaken by the directors concerned in order to achieve the desired number of government guarantee jobs, the consequences of this and the possible improvements,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is an increasing abuse of internships after obtaining a diploma and of work experience spots as cheap ways of working;]] [[Whereas in such cases there is underpayment of data subjects and repression of others;]] [[calls on the Government, by 1 April next, to develop a plan to combat the abuse of traineeships and work experience spots as referred to above,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Christmas. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XV-41]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Christmas. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XV-42]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u402	My last two motions are co-productions. The first is from Mrs. Nijkerken-de Haan and myself. It reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas people dependent on benefits are entitled to fair, respectful treatment taking into account their personal circumstances;]] [[Whereas one of the reasons for granting a so-called "directive role" to municipalities under the Participation Act is that they know their residents best and should therefore be able to provide the customised work envisaged by law;]] [[noting that practice shows too often that these tailor-made measures, for example in the context of reintegration activities, are (still) insufficient;]] [[calls on the Government to encourage municipalities to draw up an individual approach plan with beneficiaries,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kerstens and Mr Nijkerken-de Haan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XV-43]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u403	Under my last motion is not only my name, but also that of Mr Van Weyenberg. It reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that it is of great importance for a decent labour market to ensure effective enforcement of the legislation adopted in that context, e.g. the Fake Structures Act;]] [[calls on the Government to extend the temporary extension of the SZW inspection agreed under the social agreement;]] [[calls on the Government to make available a total of EUR 5 million for this purpose from the policy budget for enforcement (Article 98) over the period 2016-2018,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kerstens and Mr Van Weyenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XV-44]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u404	Mr. Chairman. It is the Social Affairs budget, hence! I have three motions, but before reading them I would like to thank the Minister and the Secretary of State for all the answers given during the debate and also in writing this afternoon. My first motion concerns Kindcentra 2020. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that Child Centres 2020 has presented a broadly supported proposal for the legal anchoring of child centres where one provision could be created by a merger between care and education supported by both parties with one educational programme, one team and one location;]] [[noting that the Yücel/Tellegen motion has not yet produced concrete proposals on this issue;]] [[considers that the freedom of choice of parents, educational organisations and childcare organisations should remain a guiding principle and that different forms of organisation may co-exist;]] [[calls on the Government to put forward concrete proposals within six months on what is needed to enable childcare and education to be offered from a single organisation (such as an integrated child centre);]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibilities (im) for the legal anchoring of child centres,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Yücel, Mr Voortman and Mr Van Weyenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XV-45]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u405	My second motion concerns a social cost-benefit analysis. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that debt relief has fragmented national and municipal policies and that different procedures and exclusion grounds are used to access debt relief or debt restructuring;]] [[Whereas a social cost-benefit analysis (SMBA) can contribute to better social and financial outcomes of the ways in which governments deal with people with debt;]] [[calls on the government, an SMEA, to implement an expert team on the various ways in which governments deal with people with debt, including debt relief, the debt collection policy of all creditors and the use of the herd register, and to develop and weigh alternatives in these SMEA,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Yücel, Mr Koser Kaya, Mr Voortman and Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XV-46]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u406	Now I come to my final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that in 2014 and 2015, the government for civil society organisations has an amount of around EUR 3.5 million per year through a subsidy scheme to stimulate activities that contribute sustainably to combating poverty and debt;]] [[Whereas there is a strong need for a follow-up option for the submission of grant applications for national projects in this field;]] [[calls on the Government, including in 2016 and 2017, to make this amount possible from national earmarked poverty funds, in particular to promote projects targeting children in poverty, on the prevention of debt among vulnerable groups, on palpable debt relief projects, on the prevention of debt through budget education among young people and on more tailor-made work for young people in debt,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Yücel, Mr Schouten and Mr Koser Kaya. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XV-47]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u407	Thank you very much. May I give the floor to Mr De Graaf of the PVV Group?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u408	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank both directors for the first-term replies. Yet there is a feeling that our party is lagging behind. We believe that there is no justice for those who have fallen behind during this cabinet period. Who works for who? That's still the question. The answers of the Minister and the Secretary of State breathe a lot of positivism, cheerfulness and even jubilation, while the situation is very different. The answers do not correspond to the problems of the common man. They still experience: fewer pensions, a shorter WW, rising long-term unemployment, high burdens, immigration and Islamisation, asylum seekers' centres throughout the Netherlands, alienation, decay, impoverishment and more insecurity. Again, people are wondering: who am I doing it for? Who works for who in the Netherlands? The common man experiences demotivation thanks to this cabinet. The common man wants to keep the boundaries closed and the fruit of his labor as much as possible himself. That's normal in a healthy society. He also wants to be helped if he needs help. But at open borders, this remains under pressure. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Minister Dijsselbloem stated that open borders and the maintenance of a social welfare state do not go hand in hand;]] [[Whereas open borders will continue to lead to an influx of migrants from Islamic countries;]] [[Whereas the past and present experience shows that up to 68% of migrants from these countries are receiving assistance;]] [[calls on the Government not to allow any more asylum seekers and to use an immigration stop from Islamic countries for other migrants and thereby to protect the social welfare state,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Graaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XV-48]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u409	There are still two motions left. I've also talked about the integration. Indeed, the Minister chooses to give away that piece and not to demand things from the outset and to make high demands on asylum seekers. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that asylum seekers who pass their integration examination within the prescribed time limit do not have to pay back the costs;]] [[Whereas integration sends out all the signals that the Netherlands is giving away everything free of charge;]] [[calls on the government not to advance or pay for integration for anyone at all,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Graaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XV-49]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u410	In addition, I have tabled a final motion to resolve a part of the social problem and to prevent more misery. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the influx of migrants places and will continue to put enormous pressure on social security;]] [[Whereas migrants must either work or leave;]] [[Whereas it is logical that migrants should build social rights through work and good behaviour;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that migrants can only become Dutch citizens and be entitled to social security after 10 years of working here and having not committed a crime for 10 years,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Graaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XV-50]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u411	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the directors for their reply, as well as the staff of the Ministry for the hard work associated with budgetary treatment. Without them, this wouldn't work. This also applies to all employees of the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u412	You worked in the department yourself, didn't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u413	Yes, and with that, the compliment was even more heartfelt. I'll file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that people with a WW benefit who have already found a job still have a job application obligation;]] [[Whereas this leads, in particular, to fruitless applications and additional bureaucracy;]] [[requests the Government to terminate the application obligation if there is evidence of a contract of employment starting within three months,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Ulenbelt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XV-51]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u414	I'm not reassured about the payroll employees. In fact, I have heard that they heard today from the Food and Consumer Authority that they can empty out their desks. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that payroll workers on an indefinite contract of employment are recruited by the Empire;]] [[noting that the Dutch Food and Service Authority does not wish to employ six payroll employees on an indefinite contract of employment;]] [[Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, and in particular to the Treaty establishing the European Atomic Energy Community, and in particular to the Treaty establishing the European Atomic Energy Community, and in particular to the Treaty ……]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that all payroll workers on an indefinite contract of employment are effectively employed;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Minister is working with the social partners on an action plan to tackle long-term unemployment among older people;]] [[calls on the Minister, in this action plan, to at least pay attention to training and guidance and agreements in collective agreements that make the employment of older people more attractive,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Court had already asked the government in 2011 to seek more opportunities to use R&D funds for intersectoral training;]] [[Considering that only 13% of R & D funds still explicitly focus on intersectoral training;]] [[calls on the Government to engage with social partners urgently in order to put an end to the lack of intersectoral training opportunities and to inform the Chamber of the outcome of this discussion in spring 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Weyenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XV-52]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XV-53]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Weyenberg and Pieter Heerma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XV-54]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u415	Mrs Voortman will be tabling another motion to allow long-term temporary contracts. I have tabled the motion on the extra enforcers with Mr Kerstens, but I would like to go a little further in structural terms, as my group has always done in the past. My offer was $3 million. I'd like to hear what the Minister thinks is possible. I am and will continue to be disappointed by the result of the fight against unemployment. I hope that the Minister will get to grips with some of the ramifications of the Work and Security Act, in particular, but also of the Participation Act, as I say to the Secretary of State. Above all, I hope that we will continue to work on the necessary renewal and reform over the next 18 months, and that there will be no standstill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u416	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank both directors for the first-term response. I have another question for the Minister. Is he prepared to ask his legal service for a legal opinion on the conformity of the participation contract with the Constitution and to forward that opinion to the Chamber? I'm also filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas municipalities are endeavouring to ensure the integration of the large number of asylum seekers;]] [[whereas Minister Asscher states that creativity is needed to meet this challenge;]] [[whereas the municipality of Amsterdam explicitly asks the Reich for experimental space to work on the integration of asylum seekers beyond the existing framework conditions;]] [[calls on the Government to provide municipalities with this experimental space,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Sjoerdsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XV-55]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u417	Mr. Chairman. I'm filing four motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas flex workers now have relatively few participation rights under the current Works Council Act;]] [[Whereas people with temporary contracts and temporary employment contracts also have an interest in good participation;]] [[calls on the Government to consider how to increase the participation of flex workers and to inform the Court of Justice of this before 1 July 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that many employees with temporary contracts lose their jobs because the chain determination in the Work and Security Act is limited to two years;]] [[noting that multi-annual contracts are already possible, but only as a first contract;]] [[Whereas, although a longer temporary contract does not provide the certainty of a fixed contract, it offers greater freedom of choice and job security for flex workers and a bridge between fixed and flex work;]] [[Whereas the social partners indicate that thinking about other forms of contract does not have to stand still;]] [[calls on the Government to include the possibility and desirability of introducing a second multi-annual contract in the next report on WWW,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment intends to tackle youth unemployment by identifying "invisible young people" up to 27 years of age and actively guiding them to work or training;]] [[Whereas more and more young people opt out from their parents, for example in order to avoid the cost sharing standard and thus become "ghost youngsters";]] [[Considering that these young people are completely out of sight and are still much more difficult to trace by municipalities, and that no explicit attention has yet been paid to this in the Minister's plans;]] [[calls on the government to include the detection of "ghost young people" in the youth unemployment approach and to inform the Chamber of 1 July of the results,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas people without jobs also need to be treated decently and often know best how to increase their chances in the labour market;]] [[Whereas the UWV will provide more personal services to WW'ers;]] [[calls on the Government to set up the service at UWV in such a way that the opinion of WW'ers takes into account the choice of appropriate services and that they can opt for additional personal services at their own request,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Voortman and Mr Tanamal. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XV-56]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Voortman, Mr Pieter Heerma and Mr Van Weyenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XV-57]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Voortman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XV-58]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Voortman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XV-59]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u418	Mr. Chairman. I've got plenty of time. As you can see, this is a very important budget for us too. 50PLUS thanks the directors for the comprehensive and careful response, both in writing and just orally. I am pleased that the position of older people in the labour market has received attention, including from most other groups. I'm very happy about that. It is good that the Minister shows ambition to take on a strengthened approach to long-term ageing unemployment. With the next motion, which is in line with the ambition and ideas of the round table meeting in this Chamber, I would like to make suggestions to the Minister for the action plan to be drawn up. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the share of older people in long-term unemployment in the Netherlands is higher than in other countries and the policy to tackle long-term ageing unemployment is not yet sufficiently strong and effective;]] [[calls on the Government to focus a substantial part of the financial under-utilisation of sector plans on combating long-term ageing unemployment;]] [[Furthermore, in consultation with all concerned, including the Ambassador (the figurehead), the Government invites to draw up and present a Long-term Older Unemployment Agenda next spring, covering at least the following topics:]] [[combating age discrimination and prejudice in the labour market;]] [[embedding the 50+ self-organisations and promoting constructive uniform cooperation with the UWV;]] [[personal guidance for job seekers, and "jobhunting";]] [[keeping training, continuous development and up-to-date competences;]] [[development of an individual career budget;]] [[redistribution of existing work;]] [[mobility bonus, working bonus and age limit-no-riskpolis sickness benefit;]] [[traineeships, volunteering and training on job application;]] [[regular labour market experiments;]] [[research demotion and sustainable participation;]] [[exemplary role of employment policy in the government,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XV-60]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u419	Can we come up with anything for job hunting? Or shall we let that go?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u420	Let's go with that. Since the increase in the AOW age according to 50PLUS is bad in a period of long-term high unemployment, I shall table the following two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas increasing the age of AOW puts pressure on the labour market and promotes unemployment;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate the effects of a temporary reduction in the AOW age to 63 years and to inform the Court in the spring,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the accelerated increase in the AOW age in the period 2016-2019 could not continue to create 73,000 jobs for jobseekers in other age groups;]] [[calls on the Government to refrain from accelerating the increase in the AOW age,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XV-61]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XV-62]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u421	With regard to the AOW bridging arrangement, I submit two motions: the first about the holders with a younger non-working partner and the second about the low use of the bridging arrangement. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the proposed adjustments to the AOW (OBR) bridging scheme do not yet provide a solution for beneficiaries with younger partners with no income because the bridging allowance is deducted (fullly) from the supplementary pension;]] [[calls on the Government, as promised, to provide an appropriate solution for the group of rightholders concerned,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas according to the ANBO of the bridging scheme (OBR) for seniors whose retirement pension or pre-pension is discontinued at the age of 65 is much less used than expected;]] [[Considering that this may also affect potential beneficiaries financially as a result of the accelerated increase in the age of AOW;]] [[calls on the Government to further examine why only 14,700 out of 66,000 rightholders applied for the bridging scheme in 2013 and 2014,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XV-63]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XV-64]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u422	50PLUS welcomes the Minister's wish to find a constructive solution in the written response to the problem of the job application obligation around the age of 64. We believe that, from 60 years onwards, it is necessary to look at the relevance of the application. That's why the next two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas according to the CPB, the high employment rate of older people is not accompanied by a corresponding increase in employment for this group and the labour market for older people is not working properly;]] [[Whereas many 60-plusers have a very difficult distance to bridge from the labour market;]] [[calls on the Government to remove the application requirement for persons who are 64 years of age during their unemployment;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas according to the CPB, the higher employment rate of older people is not accompanied by a corresponding increase in employment for this group and the labour market for older people is not working properly;]] [[Whereas many 60-plusers have a very difficult distance to bridge from the labour market;]] [[calls on the government, utility and need for a job application beyond the 60th year of life to identify and report back to the Chamber next spring,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XV-65]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XV-66]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u423	Unlike the Minister, I am still not convinced that a stacking monitor can no longer provide an insight into the purchasing power development of caregivers, including many elderly people. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that no stacking monitor has been included in the SZW budget for the year 2016;]] [[Whereas this is reflected in a less complete picture of purchasing power and does not take into account the effects of measures which are not included in the overall purchasing power picture, such as changes in WMO and AWBZ facilities and decentralisation of care for the elderly;]] [[Whereas, in particular, this makes the purchasing power picture less complete for people in great need of care, including many elderly and disabled people;]] [[calls on the government to return the stacking monitor to the next budget SZW,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XV-67]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u424	Because we are still firmly of the opinion that pensioners are not being properly compensated for the purchasing power repair that is contained in the Tax Plan, as is currently the case with the First Chamber. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, according to SZW calculations, the cumulative purchasing power development over the period 2010-2016 ( 2016 stock budget) is +3% for employed persons and -6.4% for pensioners;]] [[Whereas the purchasing power repair in the Pensioners' Tax Plan is low compared to that of employed persons and is not sufficiently structural;]] [[calls on the government to achieve additional and structural purchasing power repair for pensioners,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XV-68]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u425	50PLUS has called for attention to be paid to thezzp'ers who have to deal with sometimes difficult-solving debt problems. Access to regular debt relief often poses problems. Rotterdam has found a very nice approach, because thosezzp'ers can help solve their debt problems. This can reduce social costs. The Minister supports this. In order to encourage this useful initiative, I would like to table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas national research shows that around 25% of the more than 700,000zzp's (partly difficult to solve) are in debt;]] [[Considering that traditional debt relief pathways are often less accessible tozzp's from a cost point of view and that municipalities differ in the extent to which and how debt relief is provided tozzp's;]] [[whereas in the event of money problems, Rotterdam-basedzzp'ers can call on the municipality for conditional financing of debt relief and, if necessary, provide orderly assistance to bankruptcy;]] [[Furthermore, considering that the Rotterdam approach reduces the high social costs of debt issues amongzzp'ers, and offers their prospects for a start-up or a fresh start;]] [[calls on the government to make every effort to ensure that the Rotterdam approach forzzp's in money problems is applied as nationally as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XV-69]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u426	Mr President, I have two further motions for resolutions. That's not so bad, is it? The new calculation rate for pension funds, combined with the persistently low market interest rates and the strict new financial review framework, has a negative impact on the position of pension funds, coverage levels and the ability to index. This increases the tension between premium, investment risk and retirement ambition. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the new accounting rate (UFR) for pension funds leads to a decrease in the coverage rate of 5% on average and forces pension funds to take into account higher future pension liabilities of EUR 60 billion;]] [[Whereas the low market interest rate combined with the UFR decision in the long term results in an upward pressure on pension contributions of around 4.3 billion;]] [[Whereas low market interest rates, combined with the UFR decision, are at the expense of pension building, increase the chances of a reduction in pensions, and further reduce the risk of indexation of pensions;]] [[Furthermore, considering that the new lower interest rate reinforces the negative effect of the already very low market rate and that the chosen UFR reduces interest sensitivity in the pension contract;]] [[calls on the Government to promote, as far as possible, that the Dutch Bank (DNB) takes into account the negative effects of the exceptionally low market interest rates in its accounting policy;]] [[calls on the Government to limit to its utmost adverse effects on pension funds and their members,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-70]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u427	Mr. Chairman. Our concerns about the Dutch elders of Surinamese origin and the discount on their AOW are shared by the Kuzu/Öztürk group. Mr Öztürk is about to table a joint motion. Finally, we need to improve pension communication wherever possible. Pension is income for later. That should interest us, as should the balance of our bank account, which we also follow monthly. The Secretary of State wants to improve communication, but does not yet see the potential added value of linking with mobile banking. I therefore propose the next motion for a resolution to encourage it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas pension communication needs to be improved and simplified and pension brought closer to people;]] [[calls on the Government to explore the possibility of linking information from Mypension overview with the digital telebanking environment on a voluntary basis in the further broadening of pension communication,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XV-71]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u428	You're not so bad for another ten minutes, Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u429	Thank you very much. Then I can give the floor to Mr Öztürk. He has two minutes' speaking time. It's been tracked. If you want to speak longer, you can do so, Mr Öztürk, but that goes from the next budget. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u430	Mr. Chairman. DENK stands for equality, justice and the fight against double standards. Yet we see that there is injustice, even among the elderly of Surinamese origin. Mr Krol of 50PLUS has rightly drawn attention to this, and we have tabled a motion together, which I am now tabling. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the change in the resident requirement of the AOW in 1990 resulted in a reduction in their AOW among many elderly people of Surinamese descent;]] [[noting that they had already resided within the Kingdom of the Netherlands before 25 November 1975 and were a Dutch citizen;]] [[considers that it is unfair for groups of Dutch people to be treated differently and that they are therefore dependent on the AIO subject to strict requirements;]] [[calls on the Government to give clear treatment to all persons residing within the Kingdom before 25 November 1975 and to meet these people without obligations and requirements in their old age provision,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Öztürk and Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XV-72]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u431	The Ministry is the Ministry of Employment, but the Minister is the Minister of Unemployment. The sector plans and all other initiatives have not yielded much, but DENK sees opportunities in business transfers and in matching jobseekers and people who want to transfer their business. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that research shows that 80,000 jobs are lost every year in the case of failed business transfers and unjustified collections;]] [[Whereas commercial aid for business transfers is often too expensive for small businesses;]] [[calls on the Government to use funds to match jobseekers and persons wishing to transfer their business,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Öztürk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XV-73]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u432	Several colleagues have spoken about labour discrimination. The Labour Party and the SP came up with a motion to allow anonymous application. That is, in our view, acceptance of discrimination. We have therefore asked for a different solution to be found. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that research shows that older people and people with a migrant background are discriminated against in the labour market;]] [[believes that this is fundamentally unfair and leads to a loss of talent for the labour market;]] [[calls on the Government to have the Employment Discrimination Team at the SZW Inspectorate carry out locator applications in companies, which can be checked for discrimination in recruitment and selection,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Öztürk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XV-74]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u433	Then there's the final and most important motion. We have seen that the VVD has swallowed the insufficient for Minister Asscher. There were harsh words in the paper. Unfortunately, Mr Mulder had to go back into his loft. The VVD continues to support this Minister's disastrous policy. DENK, however, is not satisfied with 600,000 unemployed, with more elderly than ever in the WW and with one in five hugely indebted households. At Pauw, the minister mentioned his application letter. He doesn't have to write it in our opinion. We will ask the government to accompany him from work to work through his own sector plans. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that under the responsibility of the Minister, unemployment has risen to more than 600,000;]] [[whereas he has failed;]] [[calls on the Government to use resources from the sectoral plans to guide the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment from work to work, preferably to a position in the research world,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Öztürk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XV-75]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u434	I always support Members' right to make motions. For the record, I do not always agree with that motion. Then my question. Given what Mr Öztürk has just done, should he simply table a motion of censure?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u435	We deliberately did not vote for a motion of censure. In accordance with the law put forward by the Minister himself and in accordance with the sectoral plans, we have deliberately chosen to guide work to work. This means that the Cabinet gives the Minister the opportunity to think in peace during Christmas, as Mr Hilhorst did, about whether he is the best person in the best place.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u436	If you believe this, Dutch state law says that you have to file a motion of censure. I don't think it's appropriate to play around with this either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u437	It has nothing to do with jokes. 600,000 people are unemployed. They have to apply every week. They have to think every week and feel the misery every week. I've asked this minister enough questions. I said: think about it; look in the mirror; look at what Hilhorst has said and come to the conclusion that this is not where you belong.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u438	Does this Minister still have the honourable Member's confidence?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u439	I have deliberately said that we have not tabled a motion of censure. If we hadn't had that confidence, we would have tabled a motion of censure. We'll leave it to the Minister. That is also a parliamentary moment to allow the Minister himself to take the decision to take that step.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u440	The issue is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u441	So you have confidence; this is how our state law works.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u442	The issue is clear. I note that the Chamber is about whether a motion can be tabled. The Chamber has just decided to allow that. It is up to the author to choose his own words. It's as simple as that. Then I should like to give the floor to Mr Van Klaveren.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u443	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the directors for their reply. In the first term, I referred to the words of Professor Huntington, who pointed out in the 1990s the clash of civilisations which, due to the enormous immigration flows of recent decades, would take place mainly in our own Western societies. Unfortunately. Because culturally-relativist politics did not dare to make demands on immigrants, an integration drama took place that we have to this day. If we want to stop this tragedy, then a number of measures are urgently needed. First of all, enter a strict, Australian immigration model. Catch asylum seekers only in their own region, in order to avoid new integration dramas. Education all youth the added value and achievements of the free West. Deport people who do not want to be here or call for violence and extremism. Re-enter military service. The whole thing, however, begins with language. Every citizen must master the language at such a level that he or she can actually make himself or herself useful to our society. However, the existing requirements do not provide for this. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the citizen must have acquired oral and written skills in the Dutch language at least A2 within three years;]] [[Whereas it may be expected that citizens will be able to contribute to our society after the examination, including on the labour market;]] [[whereas A2 is below the language level associated with the minimum starting qualification for the Dutch labour market, namely B1;]] [[calls on the government to increase the language level of the integration examination from A2 to B1,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Klaveren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XV-76]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u444	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister and the Secretary of State for their reply, including the written answers I have received. The question of integration and the state advance we were talking about was not entirely clear. That is why I have tabled a motion on this matter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the refugee problem is such that this influx of newcomers will not decrease in the coming months or years;]] [[Whereas conventions do not explicitly prohibit the public authorities from applying for reasonable remuneration for new entrants;]] [[Whereas the reimbursement of costs to be incurred by society for newcomers will increase popular acceptance and encourage newcomers to invest in their own future;]] [[whereas the Netherlands has a system for a refund scheme for maintenance contributions, namely the study advance;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibilities for a status advance for newcomers similar to the existing student loan system,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Klein. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XV-77]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u445	We have also had a whole discussion about the WWZ. I shall table the next motion for a resolution on this matter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that since 1 July 2015, the supply chain provision for temporary workers has changed, where temporary contracts are regarded as successive if they succeed each other with an intermediate period of six months or less instead of three months;]] [[Whereas this already appears to have significant adverse consequences for people working in many different sectors such as seasonal work, recreation, amateur sport, education, etc.;]] [[Whereas this results in a large number of collective agreements and artificial constructions for non-cao sectors;]] [[Calls on the Government, in anticipation of the announced 1 May review of the WWS, to prepare legislation to restore the time limit for successive contracts to three months as of 1-7-2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Klein. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XV-78]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u446	I had seven motions left, but I'm starting with number three first. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a rigid cost sharing standard is still too often used to prevent young people's free choice of accommodation and the provision of help and care;]] [[calls on the Government to adopt the recommendations in the VNG letter "Result demand-out practice experiences and cost-sharing standard," to give municipalities more room for customisation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Klein. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XV-79]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u447	I notice that I have left my other motions elsewhere. I'll leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u448	That sounds like a great end to me. That brings us to the end of the second term on the part of the Chamber. I note that it has pleased your Chamber to table 57 motions in this budget debate. This also has consequences for the preparation time of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u449	I'll reopen the meeting and I'll be happy to give the Minister the floor right away. I would suggest to him that we start with the amendments, unless he had otherwise structured them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u450	I would have structured it differently, but it's gonna be okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u451	It'll be okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u452	Mr. Chairman. There was one question from Mr Sjoerdsma on the legal analysis of the declaration of participation. This was done on 19 December 2013 by letter of Parliament. I'm deceiving the motion in part No. 23 by Mr Ulenbelt. Authorities on the ground have to assess it first. I'm deceiving the motion in part No. 24 by Mr Ulenbelt. I have already dealt with this in my letter of 27 November. I'm not gonna repeat it. I'm deceiving the motion in part No. 25 by Mr Ulenbelt and others. The SMI instrument is available for this purpose. I'm getting to the motion on part No. 26 by Mr Ulenbelt and Mrs Voortman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u453	If that SMI instrument were to work fantastic, Mr Siderius and the other colleagues would always come across examples in which it doesn't work, for example people with a coma partner who do not get a child care allowance. What would be wrong with the proposal that lies here or with a hardness clause to provide a little bit more legal certainty for these vulnerable people?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u454	I see that more and more municipalities are experiencing a development in which SMI is portrayed in social neighbourhood teams. That seems to me to be a good thing. In this way, the request for help from a family can be taken as far as possible within the social domain of municipalities. In the coming period, however, I will focus on increasing the awareness of the SMI instrument. In 2016 I assess how to proceed with SMI. Only if it turns out that citizens who may belong to the SMI target group have no or insufficient access to the scheme will I use the legislative instrument. I haven't gotten to that point yet. I started the motion in part no. 26, but he treats the Secretary of State, just like the one in item No. 27, 28 and 29. I'm deceiving the motion in part No. 30 by Mr Ulenbelt and Mrs Karabulut. I have already dealt with this in detail in the written reply. The Secretary of State deals with the motions in part No. 31 and 32. I would advise the Karabulut motion in part No. 33. The cabinet considers social connection to be important. In a neighbourhood where people are in contact with each other with space and respect for different ways of life, everyone can feel at home. Then the Karabulut motion in part No. 34.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u455	It's the Karabulut/Ulenbelt motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u456	Excuse me. Indeed, the motion also belongs to Mr Ulenbelt. Nevertheless, I advise against the motion because of the deployment of mystery guests. I shall leave the judgment on the motion in part No. 35 of the members Nijkerken-de Haan and Vermeij to the Chamber. If I take the Nijkerken-de Haan/Kerstens motion in part no. In such a way as to enable me, within the rules of the sectoral plans, to discuss with the applicants of the sector plan the use of the Pentasz approach, on which I have become enthusiastic with the input of Mrs Nijkerken, I can leave the opinion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u457	Can the proposers live with that condition? I see a nod in agreement. Mr Ulenbelt has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u458	In no way has we been explained what that approach means. Could the Minister please let us know what this approach means before the vote? Someone listened and during the debate we got a text message: I am in this Pentasz approach. I won't repeat the words, but it wasn't positive.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u459	It's okay to quote others.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u460	I have heard Mrs Nijkerken explain very eloquently what the Pentasz approach is about. I have heard her talk about the results obtained in South Limburg. South Limburg, one of the seven border provinces applying for this sector plan, has made 5 million available for this purpose and is asking for 5 million co-financing. In my first term, I indicated that I can imagine that addressing Mrs Nijkerken, given her plea for frontier work. I am now explaining this motion in such a way that, within the limits and the rules that apply to it, I am talking about whether this Pentasz approach can be a substantial part of it. If that's okay, I'll leave it to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u461	Mr Ulenbelt says: in order to be able to assess the motion, I would like to have a letter from the Minister for the vote so that I understand what it is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u462	And the results that have been achieved with this. Then we can assess on the basis of indicators whether it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u463	I think Mr Ulenbelt should simply judge whether he knows enough to be able to vote for it. I find it difficult to write a letter now on a motion from a Member of Parliament on which I give this opinion to the Chamber. It is not a proposal from the Minister; it is an opinion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u464	We Socialists are thrifty. So they're asking for money for something we don't know what it is. I think you can ask the selling party what's known about the results in the past. That's not an unnecessary question, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u465	It is precisely because we are thrifty that I have referred to the rules on the allocation of funds for the sector plans. We've talked about it before today. I have looked at Mrs Nijkerken and asked if she would agree that we should just apply the rules, because we are taking care of public money. She nodded. That's what's gonna end up in the Acts now. That is where Mr Ulenbelt can rest assured.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u466	Then you're at the motion in part No. 38.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u467	Mr Heerma and Mr Van Weyenberg want to shorten the time limit for the scout. I'm deceiving that motion. I didn't take that deadline until May 1st for nothing. However, in his second term, Mr Mulder asked whether, where necessary and urgent, I would ask the scout to come earlier. So I say I'll ask him that. I understand that intention very well. So I say this to Mr Mulder through this negative pre-opinion on the motion for a resolution. 38. I come to the Vermeij/Van Weyenberg motion on part No. 40. This motion is about applying anonymously. Given the conditions surrounding it, I'll leave it to the Chamber to decide. It's possible. I'm getting to the motion on part No. 42 by Mr Kerstens. "A plan," that sounds like I could do it myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u468	The Minister advises against a motion on anonymous application to the same extent as the SP. He leaves the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. May I know the reason for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u469	This concerns the assessment of local initiatives and their cooperation. Mrs Karabulut's motion involved the deployment of mystery guests. I think that's something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u470	It was also about anonymous application, with municipalities together, and about trials. So it's no different at all. Another extra element is the mystery guest.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u471	Exactly. I also said that because of that extra element, I did not recommend the motion, not because of the other elements. They're fine. We were at the motion in part No. 42.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u472	Just a little longer, then. What does the Minister think is so wrong about mystery guests?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u473	It depends on the answer I just gave to Mr Öztürk's question. It needs to be better embedded and framed. This could lead to the inciting of a criminal offence. You can't just do this through this, in itself, noble pursuit. I am at Mr Kerstens' motion. If I may read this motion in such a way that...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u474	What's the number? Now we're at the motion in part No. 43?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u475	No, we're still at the motion at piece number. 42. I hadn't gotten to the judgment yet. If I may explain this motion in such a way that I am sending a letter on how we can help the parties who report abuse of internship themselves, then I can leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. But I can't make a plan for that myself, because I'm dependent on reports that something isn't going well with the internships.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u476	I understand. I also referred in my explanatory statement to the FNV Jong campaign in the first term. That campaign's still going on. I therefore assume that, if that campaign reveals some very shocking things, the Minister is prepared to take these results and see what role he sees for himself in tackling possible abuses.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u477	That's it. Sure. Then I maintain the advice to leave the verdict to the Chamber. The judgment on the Kerstens/Van Weyenberg motion in part No. Forty-four I leave to the Chamber. It's the purpose I talked to Van Weyenberg about. The judgment on the motion in part No. 45 on the children's centers I leave to the Chamber. The De Graaf motion in part No. Forty-eight, I'm not sure. The De Graaf motion in part No. 49, I'm not sure. The De Graaf motion in part No. Fifty, I'm telling you. The Van Weyenberg/Ulenbelt motion in part No. 51, I advise. That's also explained in the written stuff. I should like to ask whether Mr Van Weyenberg has tabled the motion for a resolution on item No. 52 on the payroll staff wants to stay. Perhaps he could even withdraw the motion and retable it tomorrow at the conclusion of the Economic Affairs budget, where this subject belongs. It doesn't take much time. It's actually tomorrow. Then the motion has been submitted to the proper budget. Otherwise, I'm gonna have to dissuade the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u478	I filed a motion with exactly the same operativeity on DUO. At DUO the judge was the Chamber and the Minister, in consultation with the parties concerned, finally settled the matter for which I thank him for doing so. The only thing this motion aims to do is to deliver on the cabinet's promise. I do not think the Minister disagrees with that either. I'm just asking him to make sure this goes well. I can go to another budget now, but I find that very cumbersome. The Minister did this. I am quite prepared to hold on to this motion, but I would ask the Minister to ensure with his colleague from EZ that we will soon get an answer to the question as to whether this worked out. Maybe that's a middle ground?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u479	I certainly want to make that commitment. I knew a lot more about the DUO case at the time. It played longer then and I had already looked at it. At that time I dared to give that 'judgement chamber', even though it was a colleague's budget. I am not sure that everyone appreciated that equally, because it is always tricky to give such advice about other people's budget. In this case, I have made a commitment to record it with EZ and to notify the Chamber accordingly. Those budgets are all around each other. I have spent my time with Mr Van Weyenberg, so he has that commitment. If he's filing the motion here, however, I'm gonna have to dissuade her. My request is to hold her and submit her tomorrow if necessary. Perhaps the Secretary of State will be able to give an answer in his reply tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u480	I'm holding my motion. I'll ask for a letter, as the Minister has promised. I will not put the motion to the vote tomorrow either. I would be pleased if the Minister and the colleague concerned could ensure that the Chamber receives an answer at the beginning of next week. I'm asking because otherwise these people will just be out on the street in two weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u481	That's a promise I make.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u482	That commitment has been made.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u483	The judgment on the Van Weyenberg/Krol motion on item No. 53 I leave to the Chamber. It's policy support. The Van Weyenberg/Heerma motion in part No. 54 is policy support, so judge Chamber. The Sjoerdsma motion in part No. 55, I'm not sure. It must fit within the framework of the law. The judgment on the motion in part No. I leave Mrs Voortman's 56 to the Chamber, which is policy support.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u484	It's the Voortman/Tanamal motion in part No. 56.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u485	Excuse me, indeed. The judgment on the motion in part No. I also leave 57 Members of the House to Voortman, Heerma and Van Weyenberg. It fits within the agreements that are there to get back to that. The motion in part No. 58 by Mrs Voortman, I advise. The motion in part No. 59 by Mrs Voortman I advise. The motion in part No. I advise 60 of Mr Krol. The motion in part No. I advise 65 of Mr Krol. The motion in part No. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). The motion in part No. 67 by Mr Krol, I advise you. The motion in part No. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). The motion in part No. 73 of Mr Öztürk I advise, because of inadequate coverage. The motion in part No. 74 by Mr Öztürk, I recommend. The motion in part No. 75 of Mr Öztürk I advise. The motion in part No. 76 by Mr Van Klaveren, I do not recommend. The motion in part No. Mr Klein (S). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. 78. The other motions will be given an opinion by the State Secretary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u486	Mr Sjoerdsma has another question. After that, you will have to discuss the amendments. Those amendments don't really want to be good today, do they?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u487	I asked the Minister if he was prepared to give a legal opinion to the Chamber on how his declaration of participation relates to the Constitution. He referred me to a letter from 2013. I reread it again and it's not in there. So I would ask the Minister to send that advice anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u488	It was about a legal analysis. If it is legally sound, it means that it fits within the framework of the Constitution. There is no comprehensive passage on the Constitution. That's what the Chamber itself is testing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u489	I ask the Minister to put forward the quote from the letter he is referring to here. In my opinion, the letter states that the instrument that is still to be developed must fit within the national frameworks, but it does not contain a legal analysis of whether the instrument that has been developed fits within those frameworks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u490	Yeah, it says you can't make it mandatory for people who aren't entitled to integration. Read: EU migrants and people from Turkey because of the Association Treaty. De facto, it is legally binding through the Integration Act and that is also what we are going to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u491	The Minister is now hiding behind EU directives prohibiting it from becoming mandatory. My question was whether this fits in with the Dutch Constitution. The Minister then refers to a letter. That letter does not say that, so I repeat my request if he can give a legal opinion on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u492	Then I'll stick to my negative answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u493	Mr Sjoerdsma, it will be a repeat of moves. I'm afraid in an AO or something like that, you're gonna have to sharpen the knives extensively over here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u494	I had tabled a motion to make the detection of ghost youth part of the approach to youth unemployment. The motion for a resolution has been dissuaded by the Minister. I'd like to know why.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u495	Because it is already part of the youth unemployment approach and because the recitals refer to a link with the cost sharing standard.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u496	So what happens to the Minister's judgment if I take that out?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u497	Then it is superfluous, because, as I have written to you, it is already part of the approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u498	Let us now turn to the amendments at issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u499	Which I advise all four, where the numbers keep changing. Ah, Mr Van Weyenberg comes for praise and bidding and will ask why I do not agree with his suggestion of structural regulation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u500	I would just like to read out the numbers of those four amendments. It is the amendments to item No. 19, 20, 21 and 22.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u501	The Minister wanted to wait for the second term. There is now a motion by Mr Kerstens and myself which provides temporary funding for these inspectors. I like that. This will keep the number of inspectors available. That's good news. I am therefore pleased to have co-signed this motion. But I've tried to add one more tooth before. $3 million is a lot of money. I'd like to take a look at what's possible with the Minister. I think it's nicely covered. If it has to be a little less, I'd like to hear it, too, but we agree on the goal. What does the Minister want? He was talking about praise and bidding. The chairman has begun to do so. Does the Minister disagree, does he think the amount is too high, does the coverage not work? Why would he betray it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u502	It is late, but in order to avoid misunderstandings: this is about the amendment on item No. 14.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u503	I must confess that I was quite concerned about the dismantling of inspection capacity. If the House adopts Mr Van Weyenberg's motion and Mr Kerstens's motion, that problem will not be raised in the coming years. You'll always have more wishes, but I don't want to ask any more questions, so it's wise not to extend this further. So I insist and advise against this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u504	With the motion, the inspection capacity remains the same. That's nice, but we did see a decreasing number of inspections. I've talked to the Minister about that a lot. I will amend the amendment a little while while we are also dealing with the motion. I will table an amended amendment and put it to the vote. I think it is important that this happens. Of course, I will do so in the short term with a view to voting.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u505	You therefore intend to make the amendment before the vote available to the honourable Members.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u506	I have a question about dissuading the motion on item 60. We thought we'd just handed in a horrible list of subjects. What did we do wrong? On the contrary, we thought we could help the Minister terribly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u507	I very much appreciate Mr Krol's helpful attitude, but he knows that last Monday I sent a letter to the Chamber containing my plans for tackling older people's unemployment. So he knows that this subject has my full attention. I must advise against the motion because Mr Krol makes a large number of requests in the motion at the same time. Some I can agree to, such as research into sustainable participation, combating age discrimination and personal guidance. I certainly can't accept others. In addition, I have already promised Mr Mulder that I will also see the plans we are making for enforceable targets. For this reason, without giving anything away from the agreement on the objective or the appreciation of auxiliary skills, I would advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u508	Then we'll go to the Secretary of State. We're gonna keep track here or whatever you're saying will eventually cover everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u509	That's gonna be quite a challenge.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u510	But that's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u511	I'm also trying to do it as staccato as possible. I'll start with the motion in part No. 26, which I would like to point out as follows. This motion asks me to enter into consultation. I already promised. In that case, I would like to leave the motion for a resolution to Chamber. If, however, the motion seeks to withdraw the reservation immediately, it is too soon and I must advise against the motion. So let me look at the author, Mrs Voortman van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u512	It is Mr Ulenbelt, along with Mrs Voortman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u513	Oh, yes, Mr Ulenbelt and Mrs Voortman. Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u514	That sounds good, so we'll hold her.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u515	At the request of Mr Ulenbelt, I propose his motion (34300-XV, No. 26). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u516	No, no, no. Excuse me. I would have said that if I could explain the motion in such a way that I was asked to enter into consultation with Save the Children and Defence for Children, I would very much like to leave it to the Chamber. If, however, the motion seeks to delete this reservation now, I must advise against it. So the question is, what is the purpose of the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u517	Consultation is always good. We're gonna see what comes out of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u518	Fine. I'll be in touch. The motion in part No. Twenty-seven, I'm not sure. Same for the motion in part No. 28. Unfortunately, that also applies to the motion on item No. 29. The motion in part No. 31, I also advise against it. The motion in part No. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, So far, so good, huh? The judgment on the motion in part No. 36 I leave to the Chamber. The same applies to the motion in part No. 39, which is about the protection regime. It calls for an investigation. I would like to inform the Chamber before the summer about the outcome of that investigation and the conclusions I draw. I read the motion in such a way that the parts mentioned in it are taken away by me. I'll tell the Chamber what does and what doesn't belong to the possibilities. I shall therefore leave the judgment on this motion to the House's discretion. The judgment on the motion in part No. 41 I leave to the Chamber, too. The judgment on the motion in part No. I'll leave you to the room, too. The judgment on the motion in part No. I'll leave you to the room, too. The same applies to the motion in part No. 47. I'm getting to the motion on part No. 61. I hope I don't miss one right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u519	I'm fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u520	I'm deceiving that motion. The motion in part No.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u521	Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, We were at the motion in part no. 61. All motions to that motion have now been dealt with.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u522	Exactly. I often call the Secretary of State to more haste, but not today for once. The Secretary of State has a set with only her motions, but the rest is powerless to browse all those motions. I see a lot of colleagues looking at their pieces in despair. Maybe the Secretary of State can do it in a little less haste.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u523	I'll tell you what...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u524	Well, the rest of you can follow perfectly, that's how I see it. So...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u525	Oh, my gosh!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u526	But for Mr Van Weyenberg we are going to slow down a bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u527	I'll tell you what the point of the motion is. I'm at the motion in part No. 61. I advise against this motion, because it asks whether the AOW age...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u528	So far you're with us, Mr Van Weyenberg?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u529	Me too. The motion in part No. 62 I do not recommend, because it calls for the accelerated increase in the age of AOW to be waived. The motion in part No. 63 is about the younger partner and the bridging arrangement. I'd advise against that motion, because she's not covered. In the motion in part No. 64 is requested to investigate why so few people applied. I've already told the Chamber. That's why I advise against this motion. I'll come to the motion in part No. 69. It's about thezzp'ers and the debt relief. I have already said a few things about this in the written reply. If I may read this motion in such a way that I go into the Rotterdam approach and then consider whether I would like to recommend it in a country more than I can do, I will leave the judgment on this motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u530	I see a sign of approval from the back benches. So that's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u531	All right. The motion in part No. 70, on the interest rate, I'm not sure. The motion in part No. 71 is about pension communication and the banks. If I may read it in such a way that I ask the Pension Register Foundation to explore this, I can leave the judgment on the motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u532	Mr Krol also agreed non-verbally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u533	Fine. The Öztürk/Krol motion in part No. Seventy-two, I'm gonna have to dissuade you. The Klein motion in part No. 79 is the last one. It is unnecessary, because municipalities already have a lot of customization. There's no need for more room for customization. So I'm going to advise against this motion, too. I'm at the end of the pile of motions. I had already dealt with the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u534	But in order to support Mr Van Weyenberg a little bit, I have to say, for the sake of fairness, that we are still here to make an explicit assessment of the motions on the items Nos. 27 and 31 want to hear. We suspect they've both been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u535	The Ulenbelt/Karabulut motion in part No. 27 is about undoing raising the AOW age in 2016. I'd advise against it. The Karabulut/Ulenbelt motion in part No. 31 is about social work provision. He's got some weird cover. Dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u536	That brings us to the end of the second term on the part of the cabinet. No, Mrs. Voortman has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u537	I still do not think I have had any reaction to my amendment to item No. 22.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u538	The pre-opinion on the amendments to Parts Nos. 19 to 22 from the Minister was: dissuade. However, this was not yet accompanied by an argument. That is what you want to hear about the amendment to item No. 22. In separating the market, the Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u539	I need to look.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u540	Does anyone have it handy?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u541	Now we stay until the end, Mr Ulenbelt. Don't run away now. Let's finish this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u542	Then let me take some space for this. I fully understand the thinking behind this amendment. I also see that the Chamber would like to resume the debate on refugees, particularly when it comes to the integration of young refugees. I know that this subject is not only of concern to Mrs Voortman, but actually everyone in this Chamber. However, this amendment intervenes in the budgetary framework given to it, while the letter of last Friday from the Cabinet made it clear that there are sufficient resources to do what is necessary, not only for the COA but also for the municipalities. I also refer to the intensification of social guidance and language courses. This amendment adds something to that. That makes the amendment superfluous on the one hand. On the other hand, on the basis of that coverage, I would also advise against it. I am particularly sorry that this pre-advisation has been delayed for so long. I promise Mrs. Voortman better for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u543	At least that's good to hear. However, in his reply, the Minister said that the Cabinet would examine whether and how additional language lessons should be given, within the existing frameworks. Then you already know that if there is no extra budget for this, the chance is quite real that the cabinet will come back and say: this is not going to work. Well, then it's good to book that budget in advance, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u544	No, I really refer to the previous letter from Secretary of State Dijkhoff on this matter. That's what I did in Friday's letter. He wrote that, precisely because of the previously adopted Klever motion, he is prepared to exercise a dual-track policy on this issue. That's what I'm talking about. Volunteers are already allowed to teach language to people who are still in procedure. However, the Secretary of State wishes to examine, together with the COA, whether this should lead to language courses previously given by professionals for that group for which the permit is very likely to be actually granted. In doing so, resources will not be the reason for not doing so. The criterion we are testing here is what it does for the effectiveness of the Dutch asylum policy. The concern felt is two-fold. On the one hand, there is the concern shared with the Chamber that we should start integrating people who are allowed to stay here as soon as possible. On the other hand, the effectiveness of the asylum policy requires that you do not give professional language courses to people you find should leave the country again. This whole reasoning lies under the letter of Secretary of State Dijkhoff. I very much appreciate the fact that Mrs Voortman has wanted to use this amendment to provide resources in the event that, as a result of the implementation of the commitment made in the letter from Secretary of State Dijkhoff, there is still more professionals who are going to give the language courses through the COA to young asylum seekers who are likely to remain. However, the resources are not the problem there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u545	Thank you very much. This brings us to the end of this budget debate. I thank the rulers very much for their presence and for the answers given.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-14.u546	The motions and amendments tabled will be put to the vote tomorrow. I would like to make that very clear, because of course it is also short notice for the processing of voting opinions.
