ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u1	I would like to welcome all those present in the Chamber, in particular the Minister for Housing and National Service, who has today's birthday. We are very pleased that he is prepared to spend this day in Parliament and to celebrate with us. Ten speakers have spoken for this debate. Speaking time is four minutes per group. We interrupt in two as usual: a question and a possible follow-up question. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Ronnes of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u2	Mr. Chairman. The Binnenhof is the heart of Dutch parliamentary democracy and the administration. The symbolic value of the complex is large and factually undisputed. A decision on renovation is therefore at the heart of our democracy. We as House of Representatives are not the only users. It also houses the First Chamber, the Council of State, the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of General Affairs. The House of Representatives is an important player in this debate, because the House of Representatives is a main user and also a player in the game. The Binnenhof is both an iconic national monument and an intensive workplace for a large number of people and groups, visitors, the environment of the Binnenhof and the press, which brings the event to this beautiful place at home to viewers and readers. Various variants have been examined, including at the request of the Eerste Kamer and the Bouwbevoorzorgcommissie van de Tweede Kamer. The round table has also provided new insights. Our arguments lie in the areas of construction costs, construction time and nuisance. The need for complete renovation has also been clearly demonstrated on the basis of external reports. The crucial discussion on the CDA is not whether to renovate it, but how to do it. There are basically two thoughts about this: stay here for a long time with construction nuisance or leave this beautiful building for five and a half years and continue our work elsewhere. It seems that the construction periods are going to lead their own lives, but we think there is some nuance to it when we read the answers to the questions asked, for example about the building for the First Chamber, the Council of State and General Affairs. Does the Minister really consider it possible for these parts to be delivered earlier? The answer will include two and a half years. The scenario chosen by the cabinet is considerably cheaper than the scenario in which the renovation takes place while the complex remains in use. According to the Cabinet, the Binnenhof must be completely renovated as soon as possible in order to maintain the complex. It's mainly about maintenance. A large number of significant and diverse shortcomings of the Binnenhof require far-reaching work. The CDA shares the view that the renovation is needed and therefore asks to take into account the following. We want a planning whereby as many parts of the Binnenhof complex as possible can be put into use earlier, once the work is completed for that part. The cooperation with entrepreneurs and residents in the vicinity of the Binnenhof deserves the necessary attention in the process. Appropriate facilities must be provided for the press so that it can do its work after the renovation has taken place. Finally, we call for attention to be paid to the accessibility of visitors during construction. People interested in this building, our temporary accommodation or the parliamentary process should always have a good welcome. We would like to hear from the Minister whether he can and will take account of these four points and will take them into account in the implementation. All this does not alter the fact that we will have to leave these historic grounds, where the administration has been established since 1587, for a number of years.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u3	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate the Minister on his birthday. I forgot about that this morning. But we're not discussing his birthday present here. That would be an out of control gift, because the cabinet's remodeling plan looks like megalomaniac money bounces. And that at a time when the elderly are barely able to make ends meet and when the increase in the burden of recent years has led to a huge recession, with enormous unemployment. This cabinet has made every Dutchman poorer. If these same politicians want to grow their own house at the expense of the taxpayer, then the citizen must be vigilant. The cabinet and the government parties now seem to find it a good time to transform the centuries-old buildings around the Binnenhof into a kind of sustainability palace, with even an unnecessary underground cold-heat storage system. The politics that builds a palace for itself, at the expense of the taxpayer. It will cost as much as 475 million, almost half a billion. That's more than twice as much as the renovation of Buckingham Palace. That has 775 rooms, is also centuries old and is actually in much worse condition than the Binnenhof. The cost of this renovation is estimated at 208 million, not even half. It's apples and pears compare, but I still wonder why this has to cost more than twice as much. Then the cabinet also dares to talk about a sober renovation. Everyone out, for five and a half years, and the latest energy and sustainability requirements must be met. That while most of the Binnenhof, the House of Representatives, was completely renovated and renewed less than 25 years ago. Take a look around you, at this room, the group quarters and the offices, which are really not collapsing. Of course, installations must be replaced, but above all maintenance must be carried out, which has not happened for years. Regular maintenance stopped a few years ago, which is absolutely unacceptable. There's talk of roof leaks. Look at the painting: the moss stands in a number of places on the windowsills, tiles fall off the façade. That's all delayed maintenance that should've happened a long time ago. That's not how you treat a monumental building, is it? What kind of management is that, I ask the Minister responsible for management. It is as if you completely neglect your old, fine car from the store, hoping that the car will break down quickly, after which you can quickly buy another one at the expense of the taxpayer. The National Real Estate Service was recently created by a merger. That service doesn't look right yet. The Court of Auditors recently sent a report to the Court of Auditors on this matter. There should be savings, but we do not yet see how that can be achieved. How are these savings from the National Real Estate Service compatible with an issue of nearly half a billion? At whose request should a high-end geothermal grid be built? The Binnenhof is not only on historical grounds, it may also be the last resting place of a number of historical figures, such as Jacoba of Bavaria. In Oostvoorne, where I come from, a Jacoba-van-Bavaria Day is celebrated every year. It can't be that these graves might be Van Oldenbarnevelt in this place, who's to say they're going to be part of an underground geothermal and cold storage system? The Chamber has received a huge stack of investigations. But why are all the sums blacked out in that? Is there enough competition among the contractors? Do smaller contractors and maintenance companies get the chance to compete? What does the Minister think of the comments made at the hearing by the contractor who did the renovation here in 1992, namely that the lifetime of this majority of the Binnenhof is much longer than 25 years and that at most there are installations in need of replacement? The Chamber wants a future-proof Binnenhof, but what does that future actually look like? Because there are parties who want to reduce the number of MPs to 100 and even abolish the Upper House. Nowadays you can also work wirelessly. What about Prince's Day? The PVV doesn't want this renovation. Is the Minister prepared, instead of the expensive renovation plans, simply to draw up a proper maintenance plan and submit it to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u4	Mr. Chairman. The Binnenhof, the beating heart of democracy, is threatening to close for the first time for a very long time. Yes, also the fraction of D66 sees that there is a need for large maintenance of the Binnenhof. Of course, the Binnenhof must comply with the laws and regulations. Of course, it must be fireproof and safe, the buildings must be sustainable and energy efficient and the historic buildings must also be well maintained. My group also recognises that it is necessary. And, of course, it costs money. We do have serious doubts about the variants presented by the Minister. The cabinet has laid down two variants based on an impressive number of reports, analyses, architectural analyses, cross lists and financial pictures. The cabinet prefers the short variant. That is the five-and-a-half-year closure of the Binnenhof, which costs EUR 475 million. At the same time, the cabinet suggests that opponents of this plan were in favour of a more expensive plan. A handsome piece of framing from the cabinet. Because D66 does not share the choice of the cabinet, precisely because we believe it can be faster, cheaper and better and also without the entire Binnenhof having to lock for five and a half years. My group has been strengthened in this opinion following the hearing we have held here recently. The invited architects all indicated that the renovation should take place in stages well within the budget and the duration. According to these architects, the crux was in a project approach. Instead of seeing the renovation of the Binnenhof as a major project, the building for the building should be done precisely because the buildings here are so different. I'm sure I'd like to present two specific variants to the Minister. Firstly, why does the Minister not distinguish between this side of the Binnenhof and the other side? So first General Affairs, the Council of State and the First Chamber, then when that renovation is completed the Second Chamber. As a result, the Binnenhof remains partially open, the Lower House can sit for longer and the Upper House can for example meet in our old room. Can the Minister comment on this variant? Secondly, D66 would also like the renovation of the Lower House to take place in stages. It is possible and perhaps wise to cut the conversion of the Lower House into several parts. If the Ministry of Colonies is being rebuilt, Hotel, Justice and the plenary room can simply keep running. They're far enough apart. Can the Minister respond to this and is he prepared to examine this variant as well? I still have a few specific questions. What is the scope of the whole project? According to the Minister, 86% of the costs will be in the necessary renovations and maintenance and only 14% of the costs will be in functional improvements, while the architects indicated that the costs for the renovation alone could never be 475 million. Can the Minister clarify this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u5	Mr Koolmees has already moved on to the next block, but I still have a question about the hearing. He indicated that during the hearing it was requested that a committee of experts should be appointed in particular, which could look gradually at the construction plans and remodel them piece by piece. Mr Koolmees says that it could be done much faster. I didn't take that out, except for one architect who signed himself up. In particular, I have said that this would prevent any slippage. Does Mr Koolmees agree with me that it was not a question of profit, but rather of maintaining the short period of five and a half years?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u6	I have explicitly asked the architects whether a phased approach can take place within five and a half years if you actually deal with it all by one. Two of the three architects indicated that this should be possible. It is important that in this variant the Binnenhof can partly remain open. That is an additional argument. A third important argument is that you maintain the control of the project. If you lock the entire complex of Tweede Kamer, Eerste Kamer and Binnenhof for five and a half years, about 2200 construction workers are active here every day. I think that's asking for an extension of the project.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u7	Mr Koolmees actually gives the answer in his first sentence. He asked whether it would be possible to do it within five and a half years. Within these five and a half years, I shall have a period of five and a half years and not much shorter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u8	The crucial distinction is that in this variant the Binnenhof remains largely open during those five and a half years. And that is a gain, also for the neighbors and the entrepreneurs at the Square and also for the cultural historical value. The cabinet's original proposal has been locked for five and a half years. That is not the case in this variant. That's why I'm talking about "faster."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u9	I note that Mr Koolmees is selectively shopping in the records of the hearing. In my opinion, we have asked the architects whether "building part for building part" could be possible. At least two of the architects were convinced that this is not possible, because our work here at the Binnenhof is so incredibly interwoven. The example was: one minute is a Member of Parliament in one room, the next minute in the plenary room, the next moment in a committee meeting and then he crosses across the street. It is precisely because of the nature of parliamentary work that it would not be possible to deal with the building per part of the building. That's one. In addition, the builders were unanimous, all without exception, that you cannot stay here if this renovation took place here. Will Mr Koolmees respond to that? Did we go to another hearing? What's the deal with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u10	No, we sat at the same hearing, but I think Mrs Wolbert listened selectively. I acknowledge that it has been stated that the Second Chamber process has a great deal of connection. The people who sit here in the Lower House and all the buildings around this have a lot to do with each other. One minute you will be in the State Passage, then in the plenary and then in the committee rooms. So I agree with that point, but the very first variant was about a split between the Lower House and the other buildings, that is the Council of State, General Affairs and the Upper Chamber. I have been here for five years and I can say that I am really not in the Upper Chamber every day; the President looks surprised. In fact, I'm not even there every month. Those are really separate trajectories. I've never been to the Council of State myself, across the courtyard. So that can be cut separately. As far as the House of Representatives itself is concerned, I entirely agree with Mrs Wolbert that the question is whether you can unravel the whole primary process, but that is why I ask for a variant in which this is done step by step. If, for example, the Council of State has been rebuilt, you also have capacity available as a sliding space in the Logement on the other side of the Square. That is why I asked this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u11	As far as you're concerned, the cut would be between the Lower House and the Upper House, but wouldn't with such a cut the build-up burden really get the upper hand? That's one. In addition, this has, in my opinion, started from the need to build new ring lines for electricity, communication and all kinds of other technical installations. I don't think we should all be construction workers or contractors, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u12	Let's not do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u13	Let's stay out of that, but how do you intend to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u14	One of the questions I asked myself in the hearing is whether it should all be tied together. The answer to that was no. I sincerely believe that you can separate the Council of State, the First Chamber and General Affairs and remodel separately. There, moreover, the urgency is greatest; in terms of fire safety and delayed maintenance, the problem is the greatest on that side of the Binnenhof. We have no problem with that here in the House of Representatives; there is still a whole row of buildings in between. I agree with Mrs Wolbert that is something else, and I think that is a fair consideration, or it can be done within the House of Representatives, but I am now asking the Minister the same question through the second variant I have asked. I also asked about the scope of the project. According to the Minister, 86% of the costs are in the necessary renovations and improvements required under the laws and regulations. The architects who were at the hearing said that they could not imagine that that was so much and that a greater proportion of the costs should consist of functional improvements. I've reread the charges. These functional improvements are actually limited. Even the Minister says they cover only 14% of the costs. I would like to clarify this a little bit. My group also has the impression that there is no agreement with the users on the functional adjustments. Yeah, there's a cross list, but there's never been any final agreement. Is this true? If so, when will this consultation and agreement take place? The same applies to residents and entrepreneurs. We receive letters stating that they are not at all involved in the plans. Can the Minister promise that consultations will be held with these parties? Let us be clear that D66 is not in favour of the cabinet's proposal. The Binnenhof is not one complex. It is ideally suited to be grown in stages. This is good for entrepreneurs, good for those who are interested and good for politics. I hope the Minister is prepared to work out the variants requested by D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u15	Mr. Chairman. The Bundestag in Berlin, the House of Commons in London and even the Chamber of Representatives in Brussels are imposing buildings, palaces of power. However, when I show foreign guests around the Binnenhof, they find it small and friendly, messy but also cozy. I think the grandeur of the Binnenhof is therefore mainly in his tradition. The House of Representatives has been sitting here for two centuries, in the place where for centuries before, in the time of the Republic of the Netherlands and in the time of the graves of Holland, power was established. The Binnenhof also symbolizes our politics: a multitude of buildings from different times and in different styles forms an sometimes inimitable unity here. From 1815 to 1992, the House of Representatives was established in the old ballroom of the former town hall. There was always too little space here and there was overdue maintenance. After the inauguration of the new building in 1992, this discussion actually continued. Once again, there is a lack of space and delayed maintenance. According to the Minister, this late maintenance has become so large that the entire Binnenhof has to go and the House of Representatives will have to leave this place for five and a half years from 2020. That will cost EUR 475 million. With the move, it's over 500 million. The new construction in 1992 cost about EUR 100 million: one fifth of the amount involved. Why the difference? Why has this delay of maintenance been incurred in recent years? Why have the costs become so high? Why is there no major maintenance until 2020? We cannot escape the impression that this renovation is being directed in a particular direction, namely towards one major, comprehensive renovation in the distant future. From a structural point of view, we can imagine something. If we leave the Binnenhof, it will cause a great deal of nuisance and it will also give a great deal of attention to security and, most likely, cost. But it's a big deal. The Labour Party and the VVD are already out. I do have a number of questions for the Minister. The renovation is about many and different things. It is about things that are really needed, especially in view of the working conditions and the safety of the people who work here. Other issues include improvements in ICT or accessibility. Other things are of aesthetic nature, such as restoration of classical halls and old ornaments. However, I also read about a new relaxation room, a new store for business gifts, digitisation of the name tags, pest-freeing the buildings and the removal of gulls from the roof. I can't believe all this is equally necessary. Nor are we convinced that all these plans must be implemented at the same time. Many experts say that many projects can also be carried out separately. Part of the Binnenhof could be dealt with at any time. Of course, work can also be done during recesses and weekends. It may take more than five and a half years, but we can start earlier: already instead of by 2020. Ms Spies, from the committee that drafted the Advice Renovation Binnenhof, said it was a political choice. I ask the Minister to make that political choice possible, by presenting several options. Is it strictly necessary to take the Binnenhof at once? What possibilities are there for carrying out projects in parts? In some cases, can we start now? Finally, I would like to draw attention to the following. As this liberal minister knows, in 1619 Johan van Oldenbarnevelt was beheaded at the Binnenhof at the request of Prince Maurits of Orange, after which the body miraculously disappeared. Probably his remains are still in the crypts underneath the First Chamber. The restoration of the Binnenhof would be a good time to bury the remains of this Father of the Fatherland in a dignified manner. Does the Minister share that view? Is this liberal prepared to commit itself to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u16	Mr. Chairman. I know that my congratulations sometimes land wrongly, but in this case I will convey a sincere heartfelt message to the Minister. As the youngest elected party in this house, we regularly lead new members around. To this day, they are impressed by this building and by the entire Binnenhof. It looks great at first glance. We always have a lot to explain to people at home about the fact that a major renovation is necessary. However, anyone who reads the pieces and takes the trouble to look behind the scenes can only conclude that a major renovation is indeed necessary. 50PLUS has been in favour of choosing the cheapest and most efficient solution from the outset. 50PLUS thus supports the cabinet's position to opt for the third variant, whereby the entire Binnenhof is evacuated, the parliamentary process during the renovation is guaranteed and the execution can take place safely. We do have an additional proposal, for which I would like to draw the attention of the President and his colleagues. Many of you will rarely come into the part of the building that is referred to as Hotel. You are very welcome there, especially on the fourth floor. This building part is the least efficient of the entire complex. There is a large unusable courtyard. The building is not a monument. On the inside, it's downright ugly. On the outside it still looks reasonable, but much has to be done in this building to keep it liveable and workable in the coming years. We would therefore like to propose that the Hotel be demolished and that an efficient new office building be created in this place, with the same height as the mediators if necessary. This would mean that extra space would be available for staff and groups who might be housed in this Chamber in the future. Additional good news is that experts assure us that this does not involve any additional costs. Let everyone realise that this is a once-and-never-again option. I hope that the Cabinet and the Chamber will take a serious look at this proposal. I'm very curious about the Minister's response. Also during the renovation 50PLUS regularly wants to continue to show visitors. Do some special elements go with you to temporary accommodation? I am thinking, for example, of the King's Gallery and the List of Honor of Fallen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u17	I am surprised at the contribution of 50PLUS. We live in a time when many elderly people have been caught tremendously in their pensions and with increases in their burdens. We all know that. Now Mr Krol has come up with a plea to spend half a billion. He also puts a shovel on top of it, because the Hotel needs to be demolished, because it's not beautiful. I don't know what kind of house Mr. Krol lives in. It must have golden cranes, but we can do this with a little less. Especially at a time when old people are so hard to get by.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u18	The fact that older people are difficult to live by, we are acutely in agreement. We don't need to discuss that further. Just because we want to be sober, we choose the cheapest variant that has been proposed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u19	That's the problem. There were only two variants: one far too expensive and one still too expensive. Mr Krol chooses the cheapest of two expensive ones, but there are also other variants conceivable. With a lot less money, you can just do maintenance. Mr Krol called for the expansion of space, while many parties wanted to reduce the number of politicians. You can build networks much smarter by making them wireless instead of with all those wires. Don't come up with "I choose the cheapest variant" because Mr Krol is just doing a little bit more on top of it. You know who's paying for it, Mr Krol. It's the taxpayers of this country who can pay for your expensive plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u20	That's why we want it as cheap as possible. And as far as that spade on top of it is concerned, you have really misunderstood that. I explained it to you. We now have once and for all the possibility of being there in a while no longer any longer to demolish the Hotel and to build new buildings there. The experts tell us that it doesn't cost a penny anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u21	Mr. Chairman. From the moment I was elected to the House of Representatives and I did my work here, I felt privileged to be in such historically loaded rooms and halls every day, here in the beating heart of democracy with so many debates, laws, decisions, stories and anecdotes, so much drive and passion. That feeling has remained with me to this day and I am sure that there are many parliamentarians who have similar thoughts and emotions when working in these special buildings. Nevertheless, the PvdA supports the Minister's proposal to opt for the necessary renovation of the Binnenhof for the short version that will take five and a half years and that will lead to Parliament moving temporarily. We have no further questions about the technical details at this stage as a group. In the development of the next phase, the Minister will of course be aware of the range of laws and regulations. The PvdA believes that the renovation of the Binnenhof should be developed in the awareness and conviction that it has an exemplary role for many other projects in the Netherlands, not only because it has to be completed within the time and budget available, but also because there must be an impeccable implementation of laws and regulations that have been made or adopted in this house. "Practice what you preach" must be the adadium for everything. For the PvdA there are some important points of interest that I am now passing by. First of all, the PvdA considers that the calls for tenders should be clear from the outset that work should take place for people with disabilities. This should be taken into account as early as possible in the process so that consideration can be given throughout the planning period to how this can be best designed and the people concerned can remain at work not only project-wise but also more sustainable. The 5% standard can serve as a stick behind the door, but that should not be necessary. I would like to get the Minister's promise that he will focus on this. Furthermore, the PvdA believes that after the renovation all construction parts should be easily accessible to people with disabilities of any kind. This week we are discussing in this Chamber the UN rights of disabled people. This House of Democracy should also be an example in terms of accessibility. In fact, that should be so obvious that we should not have to talk about it anymore. I would like to hear the Minister's response to this. In addition, the PvdA considers it extremely important that the Minister ensures in the execution that the tenders are carried out impeccably. Of course, the specifications must be correct, as must the tendering procedure, and no mistakes must be made in the award procedure. But it is also about exemplary commissioning, so that underpayment in the contracts must be avoided by enforcing the right collective agreement and regular consultation with the unions and the client himself takes action in the event of abuses. Will the Minister respond to that? The PvdA notes that investments are being made in the sustainability of energy supply, heat-cold storage, solar panels and energy-efficient lighting. The PvdA wonders whether the Minister proposes here to do what is legally required or to invest more. Can he say anything about this at this stage of the plan? Furthermore, the PvdA considers it important that the public function is maintained and if possible expanded, obviously at the new location but also here during the work. It feels like a threat to entrepreneurs now, but it can of course also be a huge opportunity. In the written reply it appears that the Minister is consulting with the city of The Hague, entrepreneurs, Marketing The Hague and other parties about maintaining and even expanding the flow of visitors and tourists, but in the hearing I did not get the impression that the business associations were so satisfied with the way they were involved. I would like to hear the Minister's response on this point. Can entrepreneurs and the tourist market be reassured? I'm rounding up. A great deal of work has been done in the run-up to this debate to achieve a balanced judgment on the need for the renovation of the Binnenhof and the choice of how it could best be done. Much more and quite different work will have to be done in order to feel the beating heart of democracy again. But I only have to think back to the past few years to make sure that also during the renovation time will fly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u22	The Labour Party has already indicated before the debate that it is in favour of the cabinet's proposal. That surprised me, to be honest, because at the hearing we held, the architects did indeed say that we should not see it as one big project, but as a collection of all kinds of smaller projects. Then it is manageable and costs can be better controlled. In my contribution I asked the Minister for the variant of this side of the Binnenhof versus the other side of the Binnenhof. Is the Labour Party prepared to have that variant sorted out?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u23	There's always a way to figure it out. I would only regret that this would result in a delay. The longer we keep figuring things out, the longer it takes for the shovel to get into the ground. I would therefore say that the next five-year planning period, which I have been able to find for a very long time, also requires haste. We have just both noticed that we have been listening selectively. I have interpreted the statement by one of the architects that we should see it as a collection of buildings, precisely as something that would help to keep it within five and a half years and to minimise the risk of running off.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u24	Indeed, we have five years before the spade goes into the ground; that is not until 2020. Will the Labour Party keep open the variant I have submitted to the Minister? If it turns out that it is wise to do first General Affairs, the Council of State and the First Chamber and then the Second Chamber, does the Labour Party keep that variant open?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u25	I actually heard the opposite of what Mr Koolmees heard in that hearing. My conclusion was that it is advisable not to do so and to tackle the whole complex at once. That's the first thing. Secondly: leaving all the way was warmly recommended by the builders and the former dg of a ministry, a ministry that did stay in office and spent twelve years in misery.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u26	It's amazing, isn't it? I've been in the same hearing, but I hear a whole different story here. I wonder how that's possible, but okay. We know the passion of the Labour Party for very expensive buildings, preferably paid by taxpayers. I refer to the party office of the Labour Party. We are talking here, however, about the House of Representatives. Does Mrs Wolbert think it appropriate at this time when the PvdA, supported by the PvdA, spent all these increases on taxpayers, in which people can barely make ends meet and sometimes become unemployed through that policy, to spend 0.5 billion including geothermal energy and sustainability requirements? Does Mrs. Wolbert think that's appropriate?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u27	It's not a matter of being appropriate or not. But the alternative, staying without the fire department's user license at risk to the people who work here, I find unacceptable. I also believe that the House of Representatives as an organisation has responsibility for the people who work here, to make them work in a safe and healthy environment. For that reason alone, this building needs to be renovated. You shouldn't stick your head in the sand and look away. After the first best accident that happens here, I'd like to hear what's being said again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u28	I don't remember the fire department saying we have to install expensive geothermal systems here. Those are really your words, Madame of the PvdA. This is about throwing taxpayers' money. If fire safety is at stake, fire doors must of course be fitted, but that does not have to cost 0.5 billion. You are making a plea here to throw away 0.5 billion of all kinds of sustainability requirements. The PvdA might think that's a good idea, but the PVV doesn't. We find it really scandalous that, at this time of austerity, a plea is being made, by the Labour Party at all events, to stomp just as expensive buildings from the ground up here. I think that's really inappropriate. Once again, I would like to ask you how you feel about advocating that we spend half a billion dollars on solar panels and sustainability requirements.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u29	I stick to my point that if buildings are no longer approved by the fire department, at least I find it irresponsible to pretend that this is not the case. By the way, I would advise Mr Madlener to read the documents properly. There is no question of new buildings being demolished from the ground, but it is a matter of necessary repair work. As far as sustainability is concerned, this is 1.2% of the total amount of construction. If you're gonna put on sustainable lighting, every Dutchman who screws LED lights in his house knows that, then I think it's a good thing that the House of Representatives is doing the same. You know that better than anyone, Mr Madlener. That's not an investment, that's just very sensible use of taxpayers' money.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u30	Mrs. Wolbert wants to speed up. That's what I want. Only the Labour Party already opts for a variant that starts in 2020. That's a long way away. When I read about all these 300 projects, there are really all kinds of different things in there. I mentioned a new relaxation room, a store for business gifts, digitization of the name tags, or making sure that there are no gulls on the roof anymore. I cannot escape the impression that this is not all great maintenance. Nor do I see why we should wait until 2020. Why can't we just start now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u31	Two things. As one of the reasons I have read in the documents that the building we should be going to is not yet empty and should also be made suitable. Time goes over that. Sometimes it can be that simple. You can't just be all in a building if it's not made functionally appropriate. The second is what I heard in a hearing, that it is also very important to use precisely the planning period well and to apply virtual models, the latest technology on the calculation of such a construction, properly. Everything you invest in the pre-phase results in the removal period and the renovation period being kept as short as possible. I don't have an idea about business gifts shops. That's the kind of shop we have now. I am very happy about that, because every time the permanent Chambers go to work, they shop in that shop, as you know. You're always there. I assume that you occasionally go to work visits and that you see what is then distributed by the Dutch House of Representatives to CDs of the Residentieorkest (Residency Orchestra). I have no further idea. I think it's about four meters or something, a very small, tiny shop. What are we all talking about? It is about very essential repair and renovation work. I can imagine that such a shop is also very relevant to the huge flows of visitors. At least I always see people shopping there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u32	Unfortunately, I've never been to the corporate gift shop before. I didn't know it existed until recently. I find that remarkable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u33	You walk past it every day. It's in the State Passage, next to the restaurant.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u34	I am very much in favour of models, like Mrs Wolbert, and also in favour of digital models, but I do not see why we need to study models for five years to get the gulls off the roof. I don't like that. With these 300 projects we do not have to wait until 2020. We can start with that tomorrow. This also means that we do not all have to do these projects at the same time. It also means that we can start in separate buildings at a separate moment. I would simply ask Mrs Wolbert to join me in asking the Minister to make sure that, in addition to the one variant we now have, we have something to choose. Let the Minister develop a variant in which these 300 projects should not all take place at the same time in 2020 but where we can start with the gulls on the roof and see if we can do these projects on a building basis, so that we as the Second Chamber can simply make a fair choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u35	I suggest that the SP just stays focused on the gulls on the roof. I think it is extremely important that we in the Chamber avoid 150 contractors who all think that they have more knowledge of cultivation than all the experts who have been consulted in recent years. They say unanimously, all of them, that it is necessary and that you can take either 5.5 years or 12 years, but that the 12-year variant will cost 125 million more. I think it's important to jump with the tax money and choose the variant that a. takes as short as possible and b. costs the least money. I am glad that my group has chosen to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u36	So the answer is no.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u37	I think it is unnecessary to make this correction, but the unanimity Mrs Wolbert is referring to is not there. There are also architects who indicate that it is possible for a much lower amount and that maintenance is possible without having to leave. However, that is not what my question is about. The essence, of course, is that the amount earmarked for it, namely EUR 0.5 billion, is a substantial amount at a time when we see that the queues for food banks are increasing enormously and unemployment is sky high. I wonder whether the PvdA Group believes that the amount currently reserved for renovation is proportionate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u38	Of course we watched that. I would almost say that there is no party more aware of the fact that we are just climbing out of the valley of a very deep crisis. I believe that all members of the cabinet are currently working incredibly hard to ensure that everyone in the Netherlands can benefit from it. That does not alter the fact that you cannot simply postpone investments that are all identified as necessary by the experts. People who work here are at risk and at risk when it comes to roofs that are collapsing, to asbestos and to pipes that pose a fire hazard. I think you should deal with that and not leave it to a next generation of politicians.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u39	Mrs Wolbert has spoken a lot of words. I congratulate her on that, but she lacks the essence of my question. In my view, we agree on the need for maintenance and renovation. However, this amounts to EUR 0.5 billion. The question is whether Mrs Wolbert finds the plans that are now in place outweighs all those things she has just mentioned. So I ask the question again. Does it consider the amount of EUR 0.5 billion to be proportionate for a renovation? Madlener already gave the example of Buckingham Palace. We also had the Council of Europe building: EUR 301 million.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u40	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u41	That was a cost explosion. Again, is an amount of EUR 0.5 billion proportional, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u42	I only note, on the basis of the facts and the documents we receive, that almost 75%, that is to say three quarters of all investments are necessary repairs. Mr Kuzu may ask if I think that is proportionate, but if it is necessary to be able to stay at work and guarantee the safety of people, then I say: it is no different. I don't like it. I would have preferred this to be a self entertaining, free building, but they don't exist. If we are going to have a choice, then we would rather be good, thorough and as cheap as possible. That is better than running away from our responsibility and burdening a next generation of politicians with a lack of maintenance, which has actually happened for far too long.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u43	Mr. Chairman. Democracy is not very cost-effective. We have 225 representatives of the people who talk a lot to each other, and I would like to mention just one example: just come up with a tax plan with great difficulty. This is not effective at all, not to mention local representatives in municipal councils and states. Yet we have a democratic rule of law, which limits power and gives room for difference. The value of that cannot be expressed in money. That value is priceless. Why am I saying this? Because this affects the feeling with which this debate has come on the table. I have difficulty with the way in which the conversion of the Binnenhof, the symbol of democracy, has flown. Everything has been reduced to one, apparently simple, choice: what option costs the least money? Is that everybody out at the same time? Well, then we'll choose it. The Binnenhof must be rebuilt. We accept that. The technical reports and structural justifications are, as far as I can judge as a layman, clear. In the way in which a choice is not possible or hardly possible, because from the start a scenario in which the sale continues has not been given a serious role. I am speaking after Mr Van Raak, who sighed that it could not all be much more sober. Do we really have to do it this way? The house of democracy is more than a term. It is a place with its own meaning, for which the inhabitants provide the house with meaning, the members of today, but also our predecessors who have been here before. We're in a tradition. If a parliament moves, for more than five years, it becomes a different parliament for that reason alone. The same applies to the public. The Binnenhof as a recognizable centre of democracy closes for five and a half years. All this time, it will be less easy to find the house of democracy. We must expect that the number of visitors will be much less. Think of the work of ProDemos, think of all those students who will find an empty house. The problem with all this is: determine the price. The discussion about this renovation has thus ended up in a rather unsavoury discourse, as if it is all about whether it is justified to spend some 125 million extra on the variant of the staged renovation. Why, I ask the Minister, has not phased renovation been taken as a starting point in advance? The central station in Amsterdam also stays open during the renovation? The trains have always kept going there. It is clear that we have a strong preference for phased conversion and therefore a brief closure of our plenary, the First Chamber and the Knight's Room, even if this means that the work will last longer in total. We have also heard that people who may know at the hearing have made different sounds. At least that doesn't make any sense. As the President of the First Chamber has said, it has been built and rebuilt for 800 years. Even with the new construction in 1992 everything went on. It took place in phases. During the renovation of the various buildings everything remained open. I'll come to a decision. Phased or not, the renovation will have to take place at some point. In that case: cheap is expensive. As far as our group is concerned, we will have to give serious consideration to which Chamber we leave behind and which Chamber we will be able to re-involve in due course. That thought has not yet been given. So what are we thinking? We are thinking, for example, of a different layout of the Chamber, much more of the speakers to the Cabinet. Can the Room become more accessible to visitors? Is it sufficiently clear at the entrances, Square 2 and Long Pots, that you are entering a parliament? How do we see the relationship between accessibility and security? I stress the need for the building to become energy efficient, energy neutral or energy deliverable. Finally, under the floor of the Ministry of General Affairs and the First Chamber are the remains of the broken-down Court chapel. The tomb of Jacoba of Bavaria would be there. It's been remembered before. I would like to propose the option of organising the cultivation in such a way that the remains of the Hofkapel become permanently visible again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u44	Mr. Chairman. The house of democracy is in need of renovation. The renovation was postponed for many years, but shortly after the summer, the cabinet made the decision. The choice is for a sober, short variant of a renovation in which the entire Binnenhof closes for five and a half years. And the latter keeps the moods in the Chamber busy. After all, it's about our own workplace and that evokes a little more emotion than all the other state buildings. The VVD wants as efficient and as short a renovation as possible at the lowest cost. The information provided on the various options was, in the first instance, too brief for a proper balance to be made. The Chamber asked for more information and also obtained it in the form of documents, letters, briefings and a guided tour. The Chamber has also been able to consult various external experts. The VVD thanks the Minister for this cooperation. On the basis of the information obtained, the thirteen-year variant for the VVD falls off. Of course, we do not welcome the idea of leaving the Binnenhof for a number of years, but if we remain in place, this will lead to considerable additional costs, a great risk of a further extension of several years and years of disruption for residents and entrepreneurs in the vicinity of the Binnenhof. The VVD has decided to follow the Minister's choice. The VVD will also not hand in an additional wish list for the renovation, as it only increases the costs and the renovation time, but I still have a few questions. The Minister has indicated that within the chosen variant, the General Affairs/First Chamber/Council of State section may move back earlier, but this is still uncertain. Is the Minister prepared to examine this possibility further in the run-up to the renovation? What consequences does this have for the time when the Lower House still has to stay away from the Binnenhof? If the First Chamber goes back earlier, the Second Chamber will go back later. What influence does an earlier return of parts of the Binnenhof have on the duration of the renovation of the rest of it? For example, when the Prime Minister of Poland or Belgium comes to the Tower, is the construction quiet, while General Affairs is back again? Keeping the Knight's Room in use for Princess Day has an impact on construction time. It takes a total of a few months of renovation time. Can we not hold Prinsjesdag elsewhere, for example in the Grote Kerk in The Hague, and win a few months? Perhaps we can put that aside against the extra time it takes to house the House of Representatives elsewhere when the First Chamber comes back early. It is very important that the renovation does not go off the rails in terms of time and money. There's a margin in the plans. How is the Minister going to ensure that it is not exceeded? How does he keep his finger on the wrist all the time? Is the Minister going to use the public-law open standard VISI for real-time monitoring of large construction projects? I'm rounding up. The VVD calls on the Minister to ensure that the renovation does not become a prayer without end and the costs do not rise. Furthermore, we are opposed to putting up a whole Christmas tree with all kinds of extra wishes and demands, and certainly against all kinds of super-statutory sustainability requirements. The legal requirements are already strict and ambitious enough. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u45	No extra demands and no time to waste, says the VVD. I will mention some new examples instead of mentioning the same 300 projects: cleaning paintings, marble walls in the Lairessézaal, replacing chandeliers and meeting tables, reviewing reference to the old Hofgracht and returning the vaulted ceiling in the Mary Stuart cabinet. Those are all wonderful projects. It also says: the attic floor has to be partially raised. These are all projects we don't have to wait five years for, right? Why can't we just start tomorrow? Mrs De Caluwe says: we should stop sitting in the Knight's Room with Prince's Day, because it saves months.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u46	Your question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u47	However, this saves years.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u48	I am very pleased with this question from Mr Van Raak. I had hoped for his question about the gulls, because I had an answer to that, but this is even more fun. These are just renovations that are not going to take place because the execution needs to be very sober. These are tasks and renovations that are not going to take place right now. I think Mr Van Raak should read that very carefully. This list contains exactly what is not going to happen, to keep the sobriety in it. So I am very pleased with this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u49	I find it quite remarkable that the paintings in the Lairessezaal are not cleaned. I feel like this was taken out of the list because it's done before. That is very positive, because that applies to a lot of things. I don't want to talk about the gulls on the roof again, but a lot of things can be done much earlier. If Mrs De Caluwe now says "we have to review Princess's Day for a few months," I say: can we not just start tomorrow and do the renovation in parts?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u50	I went to that hearing like Mr Van Raak. It says: If you want to do it right and stay within the time, take enough time to take a good look with a number of experts and do that preparation well. Many experts have said: take sufficient time to prepare. They didn't think it was a luxury at all to go out for a few years.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u51	I wonder if the VVD spokesperson has ever looked around to see where we actually work here. There was a major renovation here less than 25 years ago. The building is largely in beautiful condition. There has been late maintenance due to the lack of maintenance by the State Real Estate Service. That still has to be done. Large-scale conversion is, however, totally exaggerated, especially at this time, when the VVD has increased the burden so much. Why does the VVD think that this major renovation is necessary? Why can't the VVD just keep it here the way it is and postpone the renovation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u52	Construction of the Binnenhof started around 1248. That's when they started building the first buildings here. The building we're in is 25 years old. The innovation has not stopped. This building must also be equipped with all kinds of installations and facilities. In 1992 there was no internet here and there were actually few computers. We did everything back then with big piles of paper. That's where the building needs to be adapted. Every building needs thorough maintenance every so much time and a building of 800 years old for sure. Around the turn of the century it has already been indicated that a renovation was needed. Then they said that we are not going to do that now. With padding and wetting, cutting and sticking, some maintenance was done. The crisis then broke out in 2008. At that time, the cabinet said that we are not going to spend that tax money, because we already have so many cuts to make. Eventually, however, this renovation will have to take shape. It is now very necessary to do so. I think previous Cabinets have handled the pennies very carefully, but at some point you have to start remodeling.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u53	In 1992, most of the Binnenhof, which is the part where we are now, was extensively rebuilt and put into a beautiful state. This renovation, as the builder said in the hearing, is of course intended for a much longer period, not to remodel after 25 years. That's what you do when you have money left, but we don't. The spokesperson of the VVD comes up with the example of the internet. The Internet can be wireless these days. You don't need a remodel for that at all. Why does the VVD remain so persistent in wanting to spend all that money? It can be much cheaper if we just carry out the maintenance, keep the building in place and nothing else?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u54	Like Mr Madlener, I have heard the architect of this beautiful building. He has said that the building should not be "rebuilt," but needs a lot of maintenance. He also said that this kind of building needs great maintenance within 30 years. That's what's happening now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u55	As far as I am concerned, Mrs De Caluwe is right to say that the greatest risk is that this will be completely out of control in time and budget. If you do everything in one go, one complete renovation and five and a half years everything closed, that risk is of course very high. We also have this experience with other projects. Mrs De Caluwe now says that the First Chamber, General Affairs and the Council of State may be able to return sooner. In my own contribution, I suggested that General Affairs, the First Chamber and the Council of State should first be handed over and only then to work with the House of Representatives. Is that negotiable for the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u56	The whole renovation would take more time. Installations are connected, even between those buildings and this building. During the hearing it was indicated: cut it up in several sub-projects. This was meant: bring together the most handsome heads of the Netherlands, each expert on a particular piece, and see how best to look at these different renovations in conjunction. Then you're gonna have to do it in conjunction. That is why the VVD is in favour of looking at it in conjunction, because then the period is the shortest. If you extend it over a longer period of time, the risk of run-off is much greater. I am in favour of bringing these good-looking heads together and looking at how to look at these different sub-projects in conjunction. I think we disagree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u57	I don't think so, because I'm also in favour of bringing the good-looking heads together and looking at it in conjunction. That can still mean you do one part first and when that's finished another part. This could mean, for example, that the First Chamber will temporarily sit in our old room if there is a renovation across the street. In those five and a half years, you can do anything. The Binnenhof remains partly open, which is also good for the neighborhood residents and the entrepreneurs in the neighborhood. It can be within the budget and time. It's also more manageable. That seems to me to be a very good variant which Mrs De Caluwe cannot say no to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u58	It is precisely the VVD that asked the Minister to find out whether the five-building flows variant................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... This proved to be more expensive and to last longer, precisely because these installations are interconnected. If you take an integral approach to the renovation, you can do a certain type of renovation for all buildings in one go. That saves a lot of money and time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u59	The spokesperson of the VVD states that the costs should not rise. Doesn't she think that's already happened?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u60	I've listened to a lot of experts. The Chamber has asked if it can be shorter and cheaper. It has been stated that these amounts are very plausible and that this is a sober variant. I also sometimes remodel my own bathroom at home, but with these kinds of constructions you really depend on all kinds of experts. We have spoken to many different people and I have only heard one dissenting opinion. I can follow that this is the amount you're going to have to spend for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u61	It is true that we heard one different noise during the hearing, but there are even more different noises in society, which I am sure Mrs De Caluwe will have heard. I wonder if Mrs De Caluwé can give other examples of similar buildings where such amounts are placed every 30 years. Mrs De Caluwé has just said that this kind of building takes every 30 years to renovate or refurbished. • to be maintained. • to be maintained. • to be maintained. • to be maintained. • to be maintained. • to be maintained. • to be maintained. • to be maintained. • to be maintained. • to be maintained. • to be maintained. • to be maintained. • to be
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u62	Big maintenance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u63	Big maintenance, good. According to Mrs De Caluwe, should we spend another half a billion on such maintenance somewhere in 2045?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u64	I wouldn't want to look that far in the future. We are dealing with this building now and with these costs. Every building is very different. We listened very carefully to all the different experts. We have had them looked at, including all the plans that have been made. They've been reading through it. They've been burrowing it. These are people who have experience with many different buildings, large buildings and complex buildings. They indicate that this is a very plausible amount.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u65	I now give the floor to Mr Kuzu, who is replacing his colleague. After all, no one can be in two places at once.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u66	Mr. Chairman. That's right. Mr Öztürk would actually do this debate. However, he is now involved in a general discussion on preventing radicalisation, which is also a very important issue. I congratulate the Minister on his birthday. Minister Blok, this minister, says in a NOS article that we know him as a minister who is thrifty with tax money. However, if an architect, during a round table conversation and a lot of architects in society, indicate that it can be cheaper and faster, he gets his nose in the know. As far as we are concerned, the process of renovation is a perfect example of a waste of money. It actually looks a bit like a charade with a fixed script. The tree was already planned for the process and the fruits were already divided. An architect who has projects like the Olympic Stadium and Groot Handelsgebouw on his resume says it is possible to maintain in a much shorter period without having to leave. This architect is framed by the PvdA and the VVD in a scandalous way as fishing, applying for a beautiful assignment. Of course you can't. We have to give room to those who think differently. We need to give space to people who have new, innovative and pragmatic ideas and do not give space to people who already want and find all kinds of things following the beaten stream. We are talking about a minimum period of five and a half years, with the emphasis on minimum. After all, we all know that government projects, this kind of megalomaniac projects, somehow run out of time and money over and over again. No school trips for at least five and a half years to narrow the gap between our young people and politics. At least five and a half years no tourist flow to the political heart of the Netherlands. At least five and a half years the heart of parliamentary democracy is turning into an ugly building pit. Mr Madlener mentioned the example of Buckingham Palace. I added the example of the Council of Europe, which was called a cost explosion. Let me give you another example. All political parties here in the House of Representatives found the waste of money when the Ak Saray Palace was built in Ankara, with 1,000 rooms, a laboratory and underground bunkers. I can tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that this project cost EUR 340 million, new construction. Here we are talking about EUR 500 million for a large-scale renovation. That means scratching behind the ears and wondering what we're doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u67	Mr. Chairman. This year we celebrated our 200th anniversary by, in an appropriate way of course, taking out the flowers in the place that is the symbol for this, namely the Binnenhof. If we use the term States-General, we even add several hundred years of Binnenhof. In all these centuries, the Binnenhof has almost continuously been rebuilt. In all the interventions that were there, even the most profound, never even considered leaving the Binnenhof. And now, in 2015, now that we have more options at our disposal than ever, it seems that for the first time in history we should temporarily leave the Binnenhof. Usefulness and necessity of the renovation are virtually undisputed. Some backrooms show rotting symptoms. To avoid misunderstandings, I say this literally. By the way, you might ask yourself whether this is not simply due to lack of maintenance, but I will not enter into that discussion. The key question is how to organise this renovation process. The documents set out two extremes, which are always highlighted in the discussion. The first is a phased renovation in thirteen years, and the second is a renovation in which everything is emptied and the work takes five and a half years. It's up to us to weigh those variants. I can say in advance that my group does not feel at home with any of the options and extremes mentioned. Two factors play a central role in the SGP. In the first place, the renovation must be as short as possible. That certainly applies to the oldest part of the Binnenhof. Secondly, there must be a sound financial framework. On the short variant, the cabinet notes the following. "The Binnenhof is completely abandoned and the political process is being moved. That touches the heart of democracy." Well, that's a pretty strong phrase, but anyone who has a sense of history will recognize that. The magnet of The Hague was and is the Binnenhof, with as showpiece the Ridderzaal, which by the way remains out of sight during the renovation. The SGP considers it important that the buildings around them are as short as possible out of use. Well, that's pretty much possible. With limited additional costs, we can ensure that the oldest part of the Binnenhof can be opened again after two and a half years. As far as we are concerned, therefore, this option should be put to the maximum. The phased variants are all more expensive. According to the cost table, the "cheap' departure variant, which is therefore the cheapest variant, is 475 million. The longest variant costs no less than 125 million more. It is therefore not on the agenda as far as we are concerned. The starting point for my group is in the shortest variant. However, partial variants in which the House of Representatives and the old Binnenhof are quickly delivered result in only limited additional costs of around 8 million. The SGP would like to see a variant in which the two partial deliveries, i.e. of the oldest part of the Binnenhof and the part of the House of Representatives, are combined. The conclusion of the SGP is therefore that a rapid partial delivery of the oldest part of the Binnenhof is highly desirable. It also takes into account that the Senate is unanimous against the rigorous departure variant and that the Ridderzaal, the symbol of politics The Hague, is not being rebuilt. The additional costs are limited, the time involved is to be seen, the nuisance is acceptable and a centuries-long history is being done justice. The hearing, which has already been mentioned here several times, called for tight management of the project. They are urged to invest in a project team of the best specialists available. I would like to hear the Minister's views on this. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u68	Thank you. This brings to an end the first term of office. The Minister wants to be able to prepare his answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u69	I give the floor to the Minister for Housing and National Service for his response to the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u70	Mr. Chairman. All the speakers rightly pointed out how special it is to be able to work out day in and day out here. Mrs Wolbert was most explicit about this and I recognize the feeling she had described when she first came here. She thought: how incredibly beautiful to be able to work here! Every time I go in here, I try to realize how wonderful it is to be able to do our job here. That Binnenhof is actually a lot at once. Indeed, every day, and often night, it is the beating heart of our democracy, a democracy that we should be proud of every day. This is also a historic place. Here, for example, democracy was fought. This is where the constitutional changes were made. Very far-reaching decisions were taken here. Think of universal suffrage, social security. Sometimes it was painful measures, sometimes it was beautiful. That's all happened here in this place. Before that, too, this was the heart of our country. In the Golden Age it was decided here on the independence and the birth of the Netherlands as a country. I was pleased that Mr Van Raak was asking for attention to Mr Van Oldenbarnevelt. As Mr Van Raak knows, this is an important founder of capitalism. He has here, in this building, laid the foundation for the United East India Company, the first stock company. That was just one of his many works. It is quite right that the Socialist Party should also draw attention to this. Even before that time, when there was no democracy or capitalism...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u71	Normally I would rather not interrupt a minister during his introduction, but this was a very explicit invitation, Mr Van Raak. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u72	Thank you for the support of the Minister, in his own words. The Minister says: I support Mr Van Raak's initiative to track down Johan van Oldenbarnevelt and give a decent grave to this father of the patriot. What does the Minister's support mean? Are we actually going to do this in the coming years?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u73	Among the traditions here at the Binnenhof you should also pay close attention to how words are spoken. I expressed great appreciation for Mr Van Raak's great attention to the role of Johan van Oldenbarnevelt. Mr Van Raak's specific question is, of course, ready to be answered, but I would also like to do so immediately. Actually, there's a fixed rule among archaeologists: if you don't have to disturb, you shouldn't disturb. For the generations after us, who may have better techniques than we do, you have to leave behind what you can leave behind. There will therefore be no specific search. Only when it is inevitable in connection with the construction work to go digging in a place where archaeological finds can be found, can we escape this. Then this will also be handled carefully. Looking specifically would actually mean dealing with heritage carelessly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u74	Then my question is, of course, whether renovation work is being done around the old crypts of the old Hofkapel. In other countries, for example in France, important politicians, we are talking here about a father of the patriarchy, a decent cemetery. It's being handled properly. In 1619 Johan van Oldenbarnevelt was beheaded here in the middle of the Binnenhof. After that, his body disappeared. We suspect that he is housed in the old crypts under the Hofkapel, the present catacombs under the Senate. That's a serious suspicion. I have the idea that the renovation work will also cover this, and I think it would be good to agree that, if we come across cases there, we will see if there are any remains to be found and if we can find out who they belong to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u75	The entire Binnenhof complex is part of the large-scale renovation, including the site where the Hofkapel used to be. Now, however, it comes back to the wording very precisely, because if it is inevitable in the context of the renovation to disturb that substrate and the possible remains of a crypt, we will not escape that. Then we'll have to wait and see what we find there. The pure way of dealing with archaeological heritage is to prevent this as much as possible. The stakes will therefore be right to prevent this. I realize that I may have aroused Mr Van Raak with my historically correct remarks about Johan van Oldenbarnevelt, but those remarks were part of the speech in which I outlined the historical value of this complex. This historical value goes back even further: the first graves of Holland had their court here. In addition to that role as the heart of democracy and in addition to that enormous historical value, this is simply a workplace for a lot of people, all those employees who are literally here day and night waiting for us and across the street for the First Chamber, the Ministry of General Affairs and the Council of State. These people have the right to a safe and modern working environment. Of course, this is also an environment where incredibly many visitors come, with lots of pleasure. It was rightly pointed out that there are also a lot of school classes here that we want to teach how important the democratic process that is taking place here is. It also has just a tourist value. For entrepreneurs in this environment, it is indeed of great value that this complex is well placed, accessible and attractive. You and I are ultimately guardians of the public interest, not just users of the building. All these aspects must be considered here as guardians of the general interest. That is, I believe, the task we are facing here. As far as I am concerned, that actually makes this an apolitical task. This building is so important and we all agree so much about the value of democracy and these buildings that we have to ensure. Along this line, I will answer the specific questions in the order in which they were asked to me. Mr Ronnes asked whether there was any possibility of having the First Chamber and possibly any other chamber so I would call it just disrespectful, Binnenhof residents on the other side to return earlier than in the five-and-a-half-year variant, the shortest and cheapest variant, for which I chose in my letter to the Chamber. That possibility has been examined; that is variant 9 in the packages sent to the Chamber. This variant is possible, but has a number of consequences, which are also outlined in it. One of these consequences is that the expected lead time becomes a little longer, because the entire Binnenhof cannot be used as a construction site. It is of course tight work here, both for the machines needed and for the storage of equipment. Only part of the Binnenhof can therefore be used as a construction site. Of course, you have to take additional security measures, because the combination of construction work and working people is vulnerable anyway. There is, of course, heavy equipment and there is more fire risk than in normal circumstances. Unfortunately, at this time, you should always take into account any terrorists who think they can get in between the vans with their van. So that calls for extra attention. Because there is less space, the overall construction process is expected to take a little longer. While the "overside" then somewhat earlier could be housed in our estimates is that after a little more than two and a half years, this side could be housed in a bit later. According to our estimates, this would cost an additional 7 million. In short: it is possible, but with a number of comments. Mr Ronnes asked to take specific account of a number of aspects, such as user-by-user planning. In the variant that the cabinet submits to the Chamber, everyone moves simultaneously in 2020.As far as both chambers are concerned, to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and as regards General Affairs and the Council of State, to the Lange Voorhout............................................................................ In variant 9 it will go as I have just described, with the consequent consequences. Mr Ronnes asked how we deal with the press services. That is, of course, crucial: democracy must always be done openly. Also when moving to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, there will be room for the press, even as regards alcohol, if necessary, because Nieuwspoort will probably also be able to have a space there. Mr Ronnes also asked how we deal with the entrepreneurs and the residents. Everyone else asked about that, too. Consultations with the association of undertakings took place in November. Afterwards, a meeting of the association of entrepreneurs was attended by employees of the Rijksvaastgoedbedrijf. The Chamber itself has also invited the entrepreneurs. The intention is to continue to involve them. This applies equally to the residents and, of course, to the municipality of The Hague, which has also shown its preference for a short conversion variant, especially from the perspective of reducing nuisance for the environment. I come now to Mr Madlener's statement that the Binnenhof is closing. I would like to emphasise that this is not the case. It's a major renovation all users will have to leave, but part of the plans is very explicit that during the renovation there are also opportunities for tourists and visitors through a visitor center, probably in the current Nieuwspoort complex. We are also looking very seriously at the possibility of, for example, a wooden walkway. For the Rotterdammers among us: there is already one in Rotterdam. A similar construction is probably possible. In fact, this would allow you to walk across the Binnenhof and thus enjoy the buildings without disrupting the construction work. In this way, we want to do justice not only to the concerns of entrepreneurs, but also to the unanimously shared desire to ensure that at any time the Binnenhof retains its symbolic function and its real function as the heart of the democratic Netherlands. Mr Madlener also asked whether a heat-cold storage is not yet part of the cost estimate. It's one of the options. A building like this needs to be heated inevitably in winter but also in summer cooled. I think, quite frankly, that for the part where Mr Madlener himself works, this will still be the most palpable. At least I have been there a number of times in the summer. There are a number of techniques for that. This will, of course, also include cost-efficiency and sustainability. Heat-cold storage is not an unusual method. However, no hard choice has yet been made for this. Mr Madlener asked why sums were blacked out. Mr Madlener belongs to the small category of people in the Netherlands for whom the amounts have not been blacked out. The figures are confidentially available to MPs. However, since offers will be requested from the market in due course, it is important that we do not indicate in detail what our own estimate is. Of course, we give the amount of total costs, because otherwise the Chamber and I will not be able to judge the consequences for the state budget. However, the breakdown can be viewed confidentially by the Court. Mr Madlener asked whether there was sufficient competition among construction companies. One of the reasons, or rather the main reason, why the figures are kept secret, is to ensure that competition is actually there. Of course we will look for the best price-quality ratio. Mr Madlener also asked whether intensive maintenance could not be a substitute for renovation. He said quite clearly: there is a lack of maintenance. There is no delay in maintenance. I think that no building in the Netherlands is being used more intensively than the House of Representatives; I do not think that there is so much work done from morning to night as here. It is inevitable that installations will be used very intensively in such an intensively used building. Of course, the pure concrete or stone parts will generally be fine, although not so long ago also stones fell from the façade of the Hotel, just like above the counter. It is precisely the machines that stand here that are inevitably subject to wear and ageing. I call the escalators, the elevators, the ventilation, the heating, the kitchen appliances and everything that has to do with security. In my view, the hearing held by the Chamber never contested the need for such a major renovation, simply because equipment wears and spare parts disappear after a while. There was even a factual finding that there are parts for which only two mechanics are still running around in the Netherlands, which are not that far from retirement. This is inevitable in all large, intensively used buildings. That is also why already in 2010, in the time of my predecessor, the users agreed with each other that they could not continue with only maintenance. Of course, the necessary maintenance was done in the meantime, but large-scale renovation is needed. That is indeed because in 1992 there was hardly any computer work. Mrs De Caluwe rightly said that. I remember when I went to work in this building in 1998, I was stunned that I didn't have to go through an access trail. It was fantastic. The house of democracy was open. Unfortunately, we now have access trails everywhere, and they wear out anyway. The cable gutters are packed, for a large part with unused cables, because generations were placed next to each other, over each other and mixed up. This gives you natural heat development. It is a building with a history for the most part centuries-old, in which fortunately modern times are applied. However, that modern time has entered step by step. That means that, at the moment when there is really large-scale maintenance, like now, you can't escape working behind ceilings and walls. Part of it contains asbestos, because it was very common for a while. As long as asbestos is still in there, it's not dangerous, but if you have to break it will be. For this large-scale maintenance you do not escape very much intervention. Mr Madlener asked about the organisation of Princess Day in the Knight's Room. Our estimate is that the nuisance for the construction work is manageable. It is precisely in the context of the great value we all feel of the Binnenhof as the core of our democracy that this little bit of nuisance should weigh less heavily for the rest of the construction process than the fantastic holiday that is Prince's Day. I always enjoy walking through the city to the Binnenhof and seeing all those people coming here from all over the country. We should just let that happen, also because fortunately the Knight's Hall doesn't need to be renovated.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u76	The minister says it's a minor disturbance. In the plans we read that it may take a month to get the Knight's Room ready and probably get all the crap off the Binnenhof. The Binnenhof is very important to all of us. Can we not buy time if we keep Prinsjesdag in another very suitable location in The Hague? There you can also have that beautiful riding tour and the ceremony. Then you'll gain time by temporarily leaving here on Prince's Day.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u77	As far as the month delay in the report is concerned, I am a little more optimistic that we should be able to do it with less. But even if it was a month's delay, I think it's a trade-off. Do you want Princess' Day, for which school classes sit in front of the TV? That used to be with me at least: it's Princess' Day again! Keep it in a different place for a possible time savings? My consideration, and my proposal to the Chamber, is: no, let's keep that special day in the Knight's Room, just because it's possible. The sepulchre halls behind it are in somewhat less condition, but the Knight's Hall itself is in good condition. That would be very much my preference.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u78	I think that these school classes will certainly be sitting in front of the tube and that people will also go along the route if the glass carriage is going to take place, no, by that time the golden carriage will again be driving towards the Great Church or something like that. I don't really see the problem there. My question is whether this will not save time. Then we can let the First Chamber go back earlier and the Second Chamber does not have to stay on the Apenrots for eleven or twelve months longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u79	The quality of the ladies' clothes will be no different and neither will the quality of the throne speech. Still, you're talking about a generation of kids in primary school when there's a bang in the former State Department. It is precisely by keeping the annual highlight of democracy here that they have the retina that it really happens here all these centuries, but that it has moved for a while. So I'm committed to keeping Prince's Day in the Knight's Room. Mr Madlener asked why the renovation of the Binnenhof costs double that of Buckingham Palace. Buckingham Palace has fewer residents and visitors as far as I know. I think there is a more accurate comparison to be made with the English Parliament. There is also a renovation planned, for the sum of £4.5 billion. When it comes to Dutch economy, the British can't match us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u80	I've done my best to compare some apples with apples, but this comparison is really limp. The British Parliament is, of course, much larger than the Dutch Parliament. The comparison with Buckingham Palace is not perfect, but it does say something about the greatness of the Minister's plans. However, in order to avoid all these details, I would like to put the main question to the Minister. We have heard that there is no delay in maintenance and that a lift and installations need to be replaced. I would like to see a detailed plan drawn up by the Minister, in which he assumes a minimum replacement of installations and proper maintenance, and no more than that. Why hasn't the Chamber been presented with such a scenario? Why can we only choose between two very expensive options with huge moves? Why can't we choose to pull the building apart for a minimal maintenance variant? Why doesn't the Minister want that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u81	Here is a bit of a suggestion that I have wiped options off the table or excluded them in advance. I think it's good to take a look at the process from the beginning. In 2010 the users of the Lower House, the other side, General Affairs and the Council of State said together with the then responsible minister: major renovation is inevitable. In the following years, this has not come to a clear conclusion because of a combination of tight finances and the same discussion that is taking place today, which was also held at those tables. At that time, it was concluded that there is indeed a need for a major renovation. I asked Mrs Spies to come up with an opinion with users and experts on what really needs to be done, what real options are and what the expected costs are. I did not say in advance that it had to be done at once or in stages. I just said that everyone agrees on the need for renovation. I can see that, too. I have asked to inform me of real options and costs with the involvement of all possible experts. This resulted in a process in which eleven variants were on the table. A number of them have lost weight for several reasons. In fact, two of them are the most real ones. I have shared both extensively with the Chamber, because in a democratic process all the information should be on the table. The short variant is executable. That is indeed an impressive amount of 475 million. A phased variant is also technically feasible, with an estimated 600 million and greater risks in implementation. On the basis of all this information, the cabinet wanted to opt for the short variant, because both the risks and the amount of tax money are the most limited. And that's what I'm defending here. That is the outcome of a very careful consideration. What we should not do to each other is make such a far-reaching decision based on wishful thinking, in the vein of: Minister, come up with an even more beautiful, even cheaper and even faster variant. Then we'll definitely create a debacle.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u82	An "even cheaper"? We're talking about half a billion dollars, like it's cheap. The SP has already said: that is five times more expensive than the major renovation in 1992. And look around you. We're in a beautiful building. Of course there must be maintenance. I also oppose the remark that there would be no late maintenance, because we have just seen that there are roof leaks. Of course, that cannot be done, something like this must be repaired immediately. So that's what we're agreed on. But to replace an elevator or renew a heating system, you don't have to clear an entire building for five and a half years, which is less than 25 years old. Is the Minister prepared to work out a minimum maintenance scenario, phased out by component, and submit it to the Chamber? The two variants that are now on the table are simply both inadequate and far too far-reaching.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u83	The maintenance of the roofs is a good example of why large-scale maintenance is needed. In order to replace a few pans, you need to be able to safely access those high and steep roofs. That's why there's a trap guard there, with hooks you can see for yourself. That trap security itself must be safe again. It consists of metal hooks that are in wooden beams. Over time, this fall protection has become unsafe, which is inevitable with metal and wood. The only way to get to the roof now is to build a scaffolding around it. That is exactly an illustration of the fact that you can continue with small-scale maintenance for a while, but as with any large building, it is inevitable that once in a while there will be real renovation, so that such a building can last a while. All variants are absolutely taken into account. They were also shared with the Chamber. The Chamber has been able to track that whole funnel from eleven to one. However, it is an illusion to think that large-scale maintenance, whether on rooftops, asbestos or fire safety, can be done with small-scale interventions. These buildings are really too big and too special for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u84	I have one more question about the costs. Firstly, 20% of the budget is a buffer. I think that's a good idea, too. A small 100 million of the cost is a buffer for unforeseen setbacks. The minister says short versus long. That is also the framing of the cabinet: the short variant is 125 million cheaper than the long variant. But if I read the pieces correctly, I can see that 85 million out of the 125 million is for the maintenance costs of the buildings during the renovation. I was wondering if that's not a double count, because normally those maintenance costs would just be in the renovation costs, right? In other words, has the Minister not made the difference a little bigger than is strictly necessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u85	Behind Mr Koolmees' question is also something from a minister who would like to go somewhere. I'm not used to that from Mr Koolmees. This minister wants to go to a well-maintained, safe heart of Dutch democracy. He asked Ms Spies and all the experts and users she had invited to come forward with a thorough opinion on how best to do so. Many alternatives have been considered. That has nothing to do with framing. This has to do with careful decisions and full information with the Chamber. You should simply know what costs belong to which variant. Of course, the Room can find a more expensive version more beautiful, weighing everything. It's part of her democratic right. However, the cabinet chooses, weighing everything, for the variant with the least cost. Is it logical that in a phased variant there is also a post for maintenance, for maintenance during that period? Yeah, that makes sense. The period of the staged variant is thirteen years and that is really long. This means that you will have to maintain the escalators, elevators and ventilation that have already been worn out much more intensively than in recent years, because they are already worn out. The longer the renovation process takes, the higher the cost of maintaining that part that cannot yet be renewed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u86	Of course, I would never dare accuse this minister of framing and wanting to go anywhere. I note, however, that it has been suggested that people who were for the longer variant had to explain why this had to cost more money. That's a certain direction. I find the Minister's answer striking. So the 125 million is $85 million for maintenance. No matter how you turn it or turn it, you always have maintenance. If you replace an escalator next year, it'll last another 20 years and you'll have maintenance again. The plan is to renovate everything at once. Then everything is renovated and maintained at once and you get new installations. Then you're gonna write it off again. It is therefore not a question of extra costs, but of phasing out the costs over time. That's all it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u87	Mr Koolmees does not go into my point of aging. So if you're going to spend 13 years in 2020, we're going to be far away in the future in a large part of the building even further with the installations that are already dated, you're really going to be in a stage of very intensive, complicated and therefore relatively expensive maintenance. Then I am not surprised that the experts who have made this judgment say that you must take a strong position on it. Mr Koolmees may expect me to show that in all the variants I submit to the Chamber. We are none of the specific experts in the field of buildings. I don't think I'm missing an engineer right now. The argument that it is more expensive to go a long way with old, often moving parts than to replace them in the short term seems to me to be very plausible. I come to the answer to Mr Koolmees' questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u88	But Mr Van Raak has a question first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u89	The minister says there's no late maintenance right now. He also says, however, that you can't go on the roof properly anymore. According to the Minister, the discussion on the renovation started in 2010. In 2010, if I count correctly, we spent 18 years in this building. If we start the renovation in 2020, we'll be there for 28 years. Then why is so little done between 2010 and now? Why have all kinds of necessary matters not been negotiated? Doesn't the Minister find it remarkable that we're still waiting five years? Why don't we start with some necessary things already? We've received a list of about 300 projects. I believe that we can identify a number of projects with which we can already start work.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u90	The necessary things are done and continue to be done. I found the example of the roof very striking. You can only do that well if you do it on a large scale. If you really replace lifts and escalators, you will of course be able to go farther than if you have to keep them on parts again and again. If you can really build new pipes, electricity and IT cabling, you can do it smarter and better. That is therefore also cheaper in maintenance. In recent years there has been regular maintenance. This will also be the case in the coming period. If that period is longer, the maintenance will be more intensive. That is just what the debate with Mr Koolmees was about. It is not real to think that such a large-scale operation is cut into small pieces, while all the work goes on here. In the hearing that you have held as a Chamber understandably, no one has said either: you can cut it into very small pieces and you will not notice it in the work process.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u91	No, it was said in advance by experts, who do not always agree, I agree with the Minister: it is an amalgamation of projects, very different, which can also be done separately by time and also applies to the Binnenhof itself that it is a quantity of buildings that you could also deal with separately. Is one of the reasons why it should all be done by 2020, not that so little will happen from 2010? From 2010 when the debate on this major renovation began, until 2020 it will be a period of ten years. Is saving ten years of high maintenance not one of the reasons why it should all be done simultaneously by 2020?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u92	In 2010 it was already decided that it had to be large scale. Of course I would have liked it if it had been arranged right then. I find it a pleasure to be in your midst on my birthday, but if that decision had already been made at the time, I would probably have been at home making pastries. That decision wasn't made at the time. I'm the minister responsible now. I do not think that we should postpone it for ourselves, because of the democratic process that is taking place here, because of all those employees who need to be able to work safely and safely here, because of all those visitors who must be able to assume that the elevator does not suddenly stop and because of the risk of enormous damage in the event of fire because there is no compartmentalisation and fire protection is not as good as it is technically possible today. Mr Koolmees asked for a variant in which the other side would first get out of control and as soon as that part was rebuilt the inhabitants would return to it, after which this side would be taken over. That variant has been investigated. That's variant two. The experts concluded that this variant would be relatively expensive, in fact similar to the phased variant that was further developed. Actually, that was for the same reason: it becomes complex, because you can only use part of the Binnenhof and face security problems. So that's why that possibility has been investigated but lost weight. Furthermore, Mr Koolmees asked whether the short variant is better manageable than the long variant. That is indeed the assessment, because it helps greatly for the construction process when the whole complex can be negotiated at the same time. I am referring in particular to the stocks and machines that can then be used by the Binnenhof. In addition: if there is a setback in the construction process somewhere, which always wants to happen.You don't know what you'll encounter at the digging, I say to Mr.Van Raak........................................................................................................................................ This is also an important reason why the project risk in a phased approach is greater than in a single approach. In particular, Mr Koolmees asked whether the scope could not be reduced to a lower price, in view of the contributions made by the architects in particular at the hearing. The documents I have sent indicate that 86% of the expenditure really has to do with the necessary major renovation. It is also not illogical that this is such a large part of the expenditure because it is really about those walls and roofs that you will have to remove first if they contain asbestos, you have to do so safely after which you will have to build pipes, insulation and other things and then have to rebuild again. So those are indeed the big and expensive interventions. Then there is a category of 14% that has also come out of user wish lists, interventions that are not necessary but are very close to the main process. An important part is, for example, accessibility, which many of you have also mentioned. It is precisely because of the security that has unfortunately become necessary over the years that we all see traffic jams here with some regularity. It would therefore be good for accessibility and therefore also for the enormous value this complex has as a beating heart of democracy to take the entrance if you do grow. That's such a part of that 14%.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u93	I'll come back to variant 2 and variant 9, so I'll just say, are you gonna do the First Chamber first and then the Second Chamber? I'm a little confused, because according to variant 9, it costs about 7 million extra if you use the First Chamber and General Affairs earlier. According to variant 2 you first build the other side, which costs a lot more extra. Then I wonder why.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u94	Very crucial is that you start in variant 9 with a completely empty complex, so you can efficiently do the coarse work that I just outlined, the walls, roofs, and pipes, large scale. There they are, the pipes, the concrete, the sand and the plates. The heavy machinery you need can maneuver there. Then you do the rounding phase first on the other side. That is why it is technically possible. If you perform variant 2, which Mr Koolmees mentioned in his contribution, you don't have all that workspace at the beginning either. In fact, you have half a Binnenhof at your disposal. You will also have to decouple the buildings in that beginning, because for some of the management and power work they are linked together, while if you choose variant 9, you can at first deal with all that kind of large-scale business, allowing you to operate more efficiently, slightly more expensive and longer-term than in the variant that the cabinet presents to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u95	The decoupling is still a crucial point. I just had a discussion with Mrs Wolbert about this. The architects say do it now complex for complex, one by one. We also see that the fire safety of all these buildings is bothering each other, because the cables run through the buildings. This could cause a fire, because then the fire could skip. Isn't it much wiser to compartmentate all these building complexes, so to approach them all one by one, also because they are in construction time and in style all kinds of other buildings?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u96	The outcome of the cultivation process will be that there can be compartmentalised. So our successors will be able to grow a little easier. But I already outlined that this beautiful complex has grown organically. So it's not compartmentalized now. You have to separate pieces and that just takes money and time and knows risks. I understood that Mr Van Stigt was quite certain at the hearing about this decoupling, but that the builders said that we should never begin and other architects, including Mr De Bruijn, who was the most involved in this, were much more reluctant. They also pointed out that, precisely because this building is used so intensively, it is even more difficult here than in other buildings. I understand that the experiences of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, now known as the Ministry of Economic Affairs, have been shared. There is a lot of hard work, but still a little less mass to deep into the night than here. That was precisely pointed out by many others. There was no vote at the end of the hearing, I believe, but the major risks involved were highlighted very strongly. Once again, I understand that I am a doctor, just like Mr Koolmees, who is also a non-engineerer, the background to the risks outlined.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u97	I have a question about the phased return, variant 9. That actually costs 7 or 9 million more. But the Minister is a little more unclear about how things work in terms of time. It has consequences for the return of the First Chamber. It could be faster. But what does it mean for the House of Representatives? Is that equivalent? Does it take longer or shorter? Could the Minister be more specific about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u98	In our estimate, the First Chamber could be back after 2.7 years, so just over two years. The House of Representatives can return after more than six years. It would therefore take a little longer than in the variant chosen by the cabinet. That's because the construction process is getting a little more complicated, as I just outlined. Mr Koolmees asked how the wishes were actually formulated. That was a co-production of the National Real Estate Company and all users. It has resulted in what is so practically called a cross list. There are a number of wishes and necessities indicated by the users. After the decision-making process in Parliament, the follow-up step is to work out these wishes further with all users, because they will eventually have to work every day. It's been a co-production.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u99	Does that mean that this is a kind of provisional direction and that there will be further consultation with the users in the near future on what will become the final actions and renovations in the project?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u100	There is certainly further consultation, but it is not that only one blow has been made. I'm sure Mr Koolmees doesn't mean that either. It's about the exact types in the subsequent stages. With the 14% "wise to do so, but not necessarily," the accesses, for example, it makes sense to look together with the users at how we can do this well, so that school classes and other visitors can enter safely and efficiently.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u101	I'd like to ask you a few questions about those locals and entrepreneurs. A lady from the association of entrepreneurs I don't know her name anymore at the hearing indicated that the entrepreneurs wanted some more consultation. Apparently not everyone is sufficiently involved. It was not so much said that they were against something, but they would like to have more consultation and be involved in the plans that are there. Does the Minister recognise that there are still groups that may not have been taken? I am referring in particular to the association of undertakings.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u102	There has been a meeting twice with OOOP, the business association around the Square. I have promised that we will continue to work closely with these people in the near future. I realize it's far-reaching, but it's inevitable at the same time. I'm always looking at the good side of life. The renovation of the Mauritshuis here on the Square was incredibly profound and how beautiful it has become! I am convinced that this will also benefit entrepreneurs. I am well aware that it is very important to have five and a half years of cultivation here. Once again, there will still be tourists, because we want to see as much as possible during the renovation. It's inevitable, but we'll actually get something better in return.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u103	I am glad to hear the Minister say that consultations will continue in the future. We got a bit of the impression that there was hardly any consultation with this OOOP. If the Minister promises that this association will continue to be consulted in the future, I am very pleased with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u104	That's what we're gonna do. Then I come to Mr Van Raak, who made a comparison with the new construction in 1992. Why would this large-scale renovation be so much more expensive? If you can build new buildings in a place where you have a bit of workspace, this part of it was true that it is more efficient and therefore cheaper to work than renovation, especially of centuries-old buildings. In addition, we are now talking about a renovation of the entire Binnenhof and not just the Second Chamber part. That's why these amounts are really different. Mr Van Raak asked if I could put any more options on the table. Without sending in, eleven options have begun. There has been a very professional weighing process. This has led to the complete development of two options, of which I have made a choice. In view of this careful approach and the opinion of experts that this is really the task, I do not see any possibility of simply adding real options to it. We will continue to work with all our might to find out whether it can be cheaper on parts. Mr Koolmees pointed out that there is 20% for setbacks. Unfortunately, we have learned this lesson from other complex, large-scale projects, but the Chamber can rest assured that it will be the commitment of me and my people to do it cheaper, if possible, and still deliver the same quality. This now requires further steps and asking the market out: what possibilities do you see? But I don't see any room to just come up with any more options.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u105	Those options involve one very large renovation. The government has presented us with the detailed options of "stay here; 13 years" and "go away; 5.5 years." Those are two elaborate options, but they are very far apart. If you look at the nature of the work, it is a very large number of projects, which are very different and could be carried out consecutively over time, and an amalgamation of buildings, where work can also be carried out per building. We have not had any effect on this intermediate option. Mrs Spies of the Committee who has examined all this rightly says that we must make a political assessment. Then I find the choice that the Minister has put before us extremely lean.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u106	Between the 11 variants there are also variants with a different phasering. I have just discussed one in detail with Mr Koolmees. If I understand Mr Van Raak correctly, he says: just keep cutting it up into small pieces. The most extreme variant of staged remodeling is that thirteen-year variant, because then you cut it up into small pieces. It is very consciously worked out to show that this is technically possible, but there are consequences. It is precisely by working him out that we are showing that we are taking this option very seriously. But as a minister, the Chamber can also expect me to make a choice. I am also the guardian of scarce taxpayers' money and I must also judge the risks of the process and the users and employees. So I made a choice from those options, but a lot of options have been worked out. In addition, the most phased option has been worked out in very detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u107	That's right, but one of the 11 options worked out has to be in between. Why didn't we get any more of that? We could have looked at whether this intermediate choice was a passable path for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u108	That's just what the Chamber got. There is a clear definition of the consequences in terms of amounts and the lead time. That is why I was able to say directly in the discussion with Mr Koolmees: what you are saying corresponds to option 2, and that has its consequences and its consequences. But it is also professional when you see in such a process that certain parts clearly have much more disadvantages or possibly unexecutable sides. Options have also been lost, e.g. the option to break large pieces out of the walls in five places in order to be able to fit with material. It has been said that the risks are so great in a monumental building that we do not want to do so. I also think it is part of a professional consideration when you say at some point: "We have looked at it carefully. We've brought in people from outside. They say that it does not make any sense to develop this or that further." But the variants were shared with the Chamber. I have already answered Mr Van rak's other questions in interruptions. Then I come to Mr Krol. Indeed, I have been among the target group 50-plus since today. So far, it's just been 50. So I understand the congratulations. Thank you for the support he expressed. He specifically addressed the quality of the building called Hotel. I have just indicated that in summer in particular I experienced that the climatic conditions there are uncomfortable. Breaking down the whole building and rebuilding it would be expensive. This does not happen on an open plain, but between other buildings and the building must then be stubbed. The façade is special, though. I don't think it's necessary either. In the context of austerity and efficiency, I nevertheless choose to thoroughly renovate and improve climatic quality. Mr Krol asked if the gallery could go to temporary accommodation. It has many long corridors, so it should certainly be possible to give both paintings and images a suitable place there. This seems to me to be something for further elaboration with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u109	With the commitment on the second point, I am of course very happy. I would ask the Minister whether he would like to carry out another study on the first point. We have asked a number of experts. Of course, it's once and never again. Now it could be. The lower floor could stand, so could the façade. Maybe the minister should walk through the building after all. Perhaps an opinion could be delivered on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u110	I have often walked through the building, especially with a view to the upcoming renovation in order to be able to see for myself where the bottlenecks are. Once again, tearing it down is such a far-reaching option that it would not be real to say that we are going to investigate it. It's really too far-reaching for that. But Mr. Krol really can count on a great deal of quality, even in the Hotel. Mrs Wolbert rightly pointed out that the Empire should serve as an example in all parts of the project if it is to tender for it. This concerns, for example, the use of disabled workers by contractors and other companies working here. We already apply the rule of 5% social return at the Rijksrealgoedbedrijf. We shall certainly apply it here. Mrs Wolbert said that there should be no abuses with payments, collective agreements and social contributions. I fully agree with her that this should not happen in the Empire. Companies will be carefully screened and held to that. It has been asked whether further steps in the area of sustainability will also be considered than the regulatory framework indicates. Construction regulations already require that investment in energy and the environment that can be recouped in five years should be made compulsory for any major renovation. The quality is increasing anyway. In the discussions that will take place intensively with users in the coming period, adding opportunities for sustainability is an important issue. This allows all options to be on the table within the framework of costs and revenues. At this time you can't pay attention to the subject during a renovation, because it's just part of it. Mrs Wolbert has asked if the Binnenhof really closes. No, it's not completely closing. It closes up as a working environment for all of us, but we want visitors to be able to experience it anyway. Mr Segers asked why a phased implementation was not taken as a starting point from the outset. I have just indicated that I did not want to send in advance, other than as a commission: there is agreement on the need for large-scale renovation, but now come up with a thorough advice on how, the costs and the variants. Both phased possibilities and possibilities to do it at once have been explored. I do choose the variant to do it all at once, but I think it is clear that Parliament can also see and consider the other variants in the different degrees of detail. Mr Segers also asked whether the plenary room could be arranged differently. I read in the newspaper a while ago that Mr Pechtold also had ideas in that direction. There is, of course, every room for discussion about the wishes of users with regard to the equipment. In the framework of the cruiveffian "every disadvantage has its advantage": by temporarily housing out, experimenting with other forms can be made and, on the basis of the experience, a choice can be made as to how the room should look like, not in terms of the stone part, of course, but in terms of the decoration if everyone comes back here again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u111	That's an interesting commitment. The question is whether variants will be examined and whether there will be a wide-ranging parliamentary debate on them. There are indeed thoughts about it. This has to do with the fact that the organisation of the Chamber also does something with the debate, by the way you stand opposite each other or side by side. I think it is important that we discuss this in a good way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u112	I think it is a very logical subject for the follow-up. After the decision-making process we are currently taking, there will be very intensive follow-up discussions with users. This is an important part of it. If the Chamber wishes to hold a public debate on the establishment, it is of course always free to do so. I realize very well that this is a special opportunity to experiment with the facility. So I think it makes a lot of sense to do that. Mr Segers asked about accessibility after the renovation. As I said, accessibility is part of the 14% of which the cabinet says: although it is not even a bitter necessity, it is a unique opportunity to make improvements. This is also in line with the wish often expressed in the Chamber to further improve the facilities for visitors. Mr Segers also asked whether the Court chapel could be made visible. The same reasoning applies as I have just used in response to Mr Van Raak: if there is no need to disrupt archaeological sites, we will not do so. So it is not in line to make the Hofkapel visible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u113	That's what the minister just said. Of course, archaeology always assumes that it is better to leave things in the ground and only to dig up when disturbances occur. However, when it comes to these crypts, where, for example, Johan van Oldenbarnevelt probably lies, this also has a different value: historical research and perhaps even detective research, who knows. In 1619 decapitated and we don't know where the body is. So it has historical value to see where this father of the patriotism is. We suspect he's in there. There's a nice plaque there, too, but we don't know if that's true. I think it would be a very big missed opportunity if we did not seize this huge construction project to be able to answer this historic question as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u114	As far as the investigation is concerned, in this case, the unsub is definitely in the cemetery. As for the real search for whether Johan van Oldenbarnevelt or possibly other historical persons are there, I still attach importance to that archaeological purity. This too has to do with the careful handling of heritage for next of kin. In addition, it is actually well used throughout the Netherlands and in the western world to disrupt only if it really has to be changed if you really have to change foundations, build a road or dig a canal, you don't get away from it and otherwise just let it sit.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u115	The Minister and I have different views. I believe that this is of great historical importance. We're talking about a father of the patriot. He is very important to the Netherlands as an independent country, or first as an independent republic. I think it is very important for historical research to use this renovation to answer very important historical questions. What happened to the body and head of Johan van Oldenbarnevelt? Is it where we think it is? Can we use new technologies to investigate whether a body found there is really Johan van Oldenbarnevelt's body? I'd think it'd be a terribly missed opportunity if that didn't happen. In the preparation and development of these plans, I will in any case continue to draw attention to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u116	I respect Mr Van Raak's passion on this point. We differ on what weighs the hardest. Should it be the body of a historical person that weighs the most, or not disrupting archaeological heritage? Mrs De Caluwé specifically asked whether the variant in which the First Chamber, General Affairs and the Council of State return earlier led to the fact that she would have to stay out for a little longer. That is indeed inevitable, for the technical reasons I mentioned. It is estimated that the House of Representatives will have to meet elsewhere for about a year longer than in the five and a half year variant. During an interruption we have already discussed celebrating Prince's Day in another place. Mrs De Caluwe also asked how we want to ensure that the project does not get out of hand. This prevention, of course, starts with a very careful preparation. That is why we are now standing here with far-reaching variants. In this way it is possible to make a very well-founded choice. That is why I say that the next few years are very much needed for preparation. It is true that we are still talking about years. Those years are badly needed for that consultation with the users. Those years are then badly needed for asking out the market. What can entrepreneurs offer? Of course, this time is also needed to make the buildings that will be moved to, namely the current Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the former building of the Supreme Court at Lange Voorhout. The thorough preparation is therefore an integral part of preventing the project from getting out of hand. Walking out of control is very often related to not working out very clearly in advance what the wishes are. If you are going to have a new discussion about exactly what needs to be done in the course of a construction process, something like an ICT operation is almost going to happen. Mrs. De Caluwe will recognize that. So you have to define very clearly what your goal is and how you want to get out of it. But you shouldn't argue again during the renovation. However, this does not alter the fact that, of course, a solid project organisation is being set up for the renovation. We will also keep in close contact with the users, with local residents and with entrepreneurs. We also intend to digitally visualize the Binnenhof complex during that renovation. Mrs De Caluwé asked whether the VISI Open Standard would also be applied. It is our intention to apply it as soon as it is operational.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u117	There will of course be elections by now. They will be held in a year and a half at the latest. Is the Minister prepared to ensure that no irreversible steps are taken before those elections are held? It may well be that a next cabinet wants to take a completely different decision. This also leads to the following question. The minister was talking about the users. The First Chamber isn't that excited about the plan at all. Does the government's plan, to spend 500 million on this, also have to be approved in the First Chamber? Perhaps the situation there is quite different from that here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u118	In a democracy, it is good practice to submit decisions to Parliament if a cabinet feels that this is necessary. Parliament then says yes or no, or if necessary amended yes. It is not customary to say: we are now looking away as a parliament, because after us there will be another parliament. It always is, but then a decision would never be made. Parliament has full power to decide. That goes in the usual order: first the House of Representatives. Whether the First Chamber wants a debate is up to the First Chamber. I am now in a debate with you, convinced that the most sensible proposals lie ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u119	It is, of course, also a question of decency towards the grassroots. Elections are coming up, and then there's got to be something to choose. It may well be that another Chamber feels very differently about this renovation and perhaps wants to save a lot of money that we can then give back to the citizen in the form, for example, of relief. I can't wait to see if the First Chamber thinks otherwise. Apparently, there could be a debate. At least that's what the Minister says. Can the First Chamber stop this plan, too, if she doesn't agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u120	Once again, it is really contrary to the functioning of democracy to say that a Chamber cannot make a decision because there will be another Chamber. Then you can't make any decisions. In that the Binnenhof does not deviate from a railway line, education or health care. Failure to make a decision also has major consequences for the inhabitants of a country. Often it is a very undesirable option because it increases problems. That certainly applies to a particularly old building like this. The First Chamber has the democratic rights it has. It's up to the First Chamber to invite or not invite a minister. I'll just wait and see. However, it is also common practice that this goes along a fixed route: first the Lower House and then the First, when the Upper Chamber needs a debate. A minister comes when parliament calls.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u121	I asked a very simple question. Is the First Chamber capable of stopping this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u122	That's a question you shouldn't ask me. I want that remodeling to take place. The First Chamber is also one of the parties that indicated in 2010 that there is a need to grow. Moreover, it does not question the need to grow. It's not about stopping at all. The First Chamber can use the instruments it has, but that's what it's about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u123	Old senator Mr. Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u124	I find it interesting, even from a constitutional point of view. So far, 76 members of this Chamber, half plus one, have said they want the case to close. Suppose there's another majority in the First Chamber. What's the government going to do with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u125	I'm not gonna come up with all kinds of scenarios about what might happen. I'm in the middle of a debate with the House of Representatives. I do not know what the outcome of these deliberations is. I don't know what the voting relationship is either. Mr Van Raak has predictive powers. I am not going to anticipate at all what the First Chamber will or will not ask me or make known wishes. I would say that the First Chamber is old and wise enough to decide for itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u126	In the case of renovations and renovations, especially in the case of large ones, you also have to take into account setbacks. I see a scenario in which 76 Members here say 'we close the case'. The noises I hear across the street from the First Chamber are different. So the minister says it's 1-1, so it's a tie? What kind of trial does the Minister see before him? Does that close half of it and open half of it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u127	Mr Van Raak says that you have to take into account setbacks. I wouldn't describe the First Chamber as a setback. I've worked very well with the Upper House so far. I have had nice and exciting debates there. Once again, if the First Chamber asks a minister to come, he will come, but I really can't judge what's going to happen there. I'll wait and see, but I'm in the middle of a debate with the House of Representatives. Mr Kuzu said that if the Binnenhof closes, no school trips can go there and that this would widen the gap between public and political. It's not like there's no more school trips. I already indicated that the Binnenhof isn't locked. We provide a visitor center and, if possible, a walkway. At the new location there is also just a public gallery. The democratic process can therefore, fortunately, be viewed by school classes and others, as well as an important part of the Binnenhof.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u128	On this point, I have another question for the Minister. ProDemos has of course indicated to go to the building of Foreign Affairs if the First Chamber and the Second Chamber are there or even if we are there. If ProDemos were to remain seated, ProDemos' own building would last at least 15 minutes. This means, in concrete terms, that the number of students would really decrease considerably, simply because of something as insignificant as the duration, when we had said that ProDemos should actually go from 60,000 or 80,000 visitors to a doubling of that number of visitors. The question is, therefore, whether the whole ProDemos site is being taken into account, so that ProDemos can talk disrespectfully about the visits and keep its own production going.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u129	We're talking to ProDemos. There will be guided tours at the new location anyway, but since it should remain possible to see things here too, I can't say in advance whether it is more convenient for ProDemos to stay here and have a longer trip to the location where the Rooms sit or to sit there and have a slightly longer journey time to the Binnenhof. That's really part of the conversation we're having with ProDemos right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u130	If ProDemos wanted to come along, ProDemos would go along.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u131	In any case, the building is large enough to house ProDemos in it. Of course, it's just a matter of weighing costs for ProDemos and considering what's more difficult, a long run here or a long run to the other part of the road that determines whether it's going to be a whole move or that there's facilities there, while at the same time there's housing here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u132	I hear the Minister say that it is a matter of cost for ProDemos. That makes me a little nervous, because I don't think it could be that because we are moving, ProDemos has to deal with costs or so much to write off on the number of pupils or young people visiting Parliament. As far as I am concerned, that cannot be the outcome of the Minister's talks with ProDemos.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u133	I come to ProDemos less often than in the past. ProDemos has nice facilities. A small House of Representatives has been rebuilt and there are exhibitions. If you move them all around, it's gonna cost you. I just can't get around that. That is, besides the practical consideration whether it is more difficult to have a long walk there or to have a long walk here, part of the considerations. Again, I take these considerations very seriously, because I think ProDemos is a great organization. At the moment, however, I cannot say anything about this, because I simply need to be able to talk to ProDemos about it further.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u134	Mrs Wolbert, you have now been able to ask three questions. So I am going to see Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u135	I would like to ask you about this, because I think this is an important point. I also asked questions about this in my first term. In fact, an entire school generation comes here in a very different situation and does not experience the traditional Binnenhof as school classes are experiencing it now. At the same time, ProDemos has a budget and a staff based on certain numbers. All these factors can be influenced by the renovation. Is the Minister prepared to ensure that the basic infrastructure of ProDemos is maintained, even if it is affected by the renovation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u136	I believe that ProDemos should continue to be able to do his work throughout the renovation process. Information must be good and it must be possible to give guided tours. Whether that is exactly in the current form at the current location, or with the current resources, which I just outlined, at the new location, I simply cannot yet assess. I don't think it's wise to do that without the person we're talking about talking to themselves. I have not yet been able to discuss in detail with ProDemos which options are most workable and desirable. So I do not feel free to make very firm statements on this important aspect other than that ProDemos should continue to be able to do its crucial work.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u137	I would like the Minister at least to lay down principles on this point. There's a concern. If we do get out of here, an entire school generation won't be able to visit here. The number of visitors will dive enormously, although they will rise again after the renovation. This has consequences for ProDemos. Can the Minister indicate that he wants to hang out with ProDemos and see how we can assist ProDemos during that period, help to maintain the basic infrastructure of that important institution, so that it can also continue to function in the very changing conditions during the renovation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u138	On the question as Mr Segers now puts it, I say yes. I will use ProDemos to see how the infrastructure and, above all, the provision of services to schools can be maintained. Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u139	Very briefly, can we get a letter about this? Can the Minister state what the outcome of that discussion is, what the wishes of ProDemos are and to what extent the cabinet intends to meet them?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u140	Yes. I'll inform the Chamber about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u141	I will go on with this, because it is an important subject. We are not concerned with the instrument "ProDemos" in this context, but we are concerned with the fact that all those students who come to parliament every year in large numbers can continue to see our democratic process. I ask the Minister whether it is appropriate that we have very large plans for the renovation of the Binnenhof, but have actually not yet taken into account the infrastructure and the potentially declining number of visitors of students who can follow the democratic process in the Netherlands in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u142	Mr Kuzu's wording is not correct. He says it hasn't been taken into account. I have just stated in detail that at the new location visitors can simply follow the democratic process there through the public gallery and guided tours. I have also indicated that I think it is crucial that during the renovation by means of an information centre and if possible a walkway visitors can see here how this beautiful complex is being prepared for the future. So it's been thought about. This is also described extensively in the variant.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u143	At the same time, the Minister says: I am still talking to the organisation to see how we can do it in the best way possible. Let me say it in my own words; the Minister used other words for it. In the end, it's about the goal we have together. I can tell you that the Minister agrees with me on this. The aim is not to reduce the number of visitors because we believe, at least a large part of the Chamber, that there should be large-scale cultivation here. Can the Minister, in his letter to the Chamber, make a firm commitment that he will do everything in his power not to reduce the number of visitors?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u144	I'm not getting on the train myself. I can make sure that all those school classes getting on the train get a warm reception here. That is what I shall go into in the letter. It is perfectly logical that I do so in consultation with ProDemos, just as I, in consultation with the MPs as users, all the other users of the Binnenhof, the residents and the entrepreneurs, take the further action. It would be strange for me to suggest now that I already know exactly how it should take place on all parts. Then I'd be failing the Chamber, too. The work of ProDemos is crucial. We are in complete agreement on that. It's gotta be able to get through. We will also ensure that the framework conditions are right. But I really want to be able to talk to them about exactly what is needed and what is real. I will indeed inform the Chamber, as I have just promised Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u145	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u146	Mr Kuzu also asked about the architects who said it could be cheaper. Why don't I follow them? As I said, there was one architect in particular, but there were other experts at the hearing who were very much opposed to this. The experts who have consulted myself and the committee led by Mrs Spies do not believe that it could be much cheaper. Then it would not be real to suggest that it can be much cheaper or much faster. That would be creating a new disaster, and we just shouldn't do that to each other. Mr Bishop also wants, if I understand correctly, to have a variant in which it is possible to return after about two and a half years. I'm just saying disrespectfully that this looks like variant 9, where the First Chamber, General Affairs and the Council of State return earlier. However, he would also like the House of Representatives to be able to return after two and a half years. And that is not possible, because then there is not enough time to make the renovations that have to take place here. The hall down here will have to be construction site. It is really usurping with space in the middle of the city in an old complex. If I could, I would like to, because I understand the wish very well, but that is really not technically feasible. Mr Bishop asked if I agree with the experts who say that we should use a dream team for the renovation. I think "dream team" is a fantastic term from sport, although sometimes it is a harbinger of a bad result to enter the arena as a dream team. For me, it is crucial that we involve the best experts, which is why we have done so in the lead-up to conscience. In the future, too, I want to put top experts on it and involve users. Of course, as a politically responsible minister, I want to remain on top of it. I have also said in this debate with the Chamber that I am only a doctor and that there are very few architects present in this Chamber. Part of this is, therefore, the proper assessment of whether they are experts of name and fame, and whether we can follow the considerations they have made. Because if you can't exactly make the sums yourself, you can still see if you can follow the reasoning. Where that cannot be done, we question them critically, as the Chamber itself has done. I certainly want to continue with this approach, because I think it is also an incredibly beautiful task to make this heart of democracy future-proof for the coming decades. I'll finish with that, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u147	Thank you. That is the end of the first term. But not quite, because I still see Mr Madlener. Can't you do it in second term, Mr Madlener?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u148	No, because I'm very struggling with the role of the First Chamber. The First Chamber is also a user. This plan hits him as hard as we do in the House of Representatives. In the Lower House it is very divided, I notice. There may be a very narrow majority of the coalition that can push this through. The role of the First Chamber is not entirely clear. The Minister isn't making it any clearer either. Is the Minister prepared to say that there must also be a majority in the First Chamber and that otherwise he will not do so? That's a matter of decency, isn't it, going to the First Chamber? After all, it's in this same building.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u149	I am now conducting the debate with the House of Representatives. It is purely a matter of state law for the First Chamber itself to decide whether or not it wants to debate with me, so that I am always available and whether or not it wants to vote on it. Wouldn't it be illogical for me, as a minister, to tell you what the Supreme Court should or shouldn't do? The Chamber invited me to a debate today. Here I am. If the First Chamber invites me, I'll be there. But I'll have to wait and see, won't I?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u150	I fully agree with the Minister. I don't want to tell him what to do. I'm just asking him for a commitment. Is he willing to withdraw his plans if the First Chamber says it's not going to stand up?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u151	I don't go along in this kind of gloomy scenarios, as if the First Chamber were some kind of counter-productive force. I have had nice, good debates in the First Chamber if she invited me to do so. My experience is that the power of argument determines the outcome there. I don't know what the results will be in this Chamber, because we're talking right now. I don't know if the First Chamber is inviting me. I certainly can't predict what the jumping points are and what choices are being made. I'm not going to anticipate that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u152	Then let me rephrase. It's about years of renovation that hits the Second and First Chambers. Does the Minister consider that there is broad support for the renovation both within the Second and First Chambers?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u153	Sure, I attach enormous value to acceptance by all users. The First Chamber and the Second Chamber are crucial, just like all employees who have expressed their opinion through a letter from the Works Councils. They have strongly advocated a rapid renovation. The same applies to the interests of all visitors and the interests of entrepreneurs. They also play a major role. So I say yes to that. I attach great importance to the broadest possible support. We are guardians of the general interest, so it is inevitable that some will want something different from others in different respects. That's what you notice in this debate. Of course, it is always best if the support level is as high as possible for all concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u154	Does the Minister therefore consider that both the Lower House and the Upper House should agree to the same variant?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u155	Then Mr Van Raak asks the same question as Mr Madlener: do I think that the First Chamber should organise a debate and a vote? That's not up to me. That's what the First Chamber itself is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u156	How am I supposed to see the letter from the House of Commons the day before yesterday? In that letter, the Minister is invited to consult the Upper House at both political and technical level, as previously agreed. The letter specifically addresses the phasering in which the First Chamber and General Affairs are done first and then the Second Chamber. How are we supposed to reconcile that with the discussion we are having today?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u157	I think that's logical. In her letter, the First Chamber states which variant appeals to her most. A number of spokesmen have asked what the consequences are, including for the House of Representatives. I've outlined it. I've said it's possible, but it has consequences. It's gonna take a little longer and I don't have the funding for the extra part. Whether the First Chamber wishes to hold a technical or plenary discussion after the debate here is up to the First Chamber. If the First Chamber asks me, I'll come.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u158	We are continuing the debate on the renovation of the Binnenhof. During this second term of office, Members shall all have two minutes' speaking time, with the exception of Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u159	Mr. Chairman. I think this was a good debate, which did justice to the problems that lie on our plate today. I would like to thank the Minister for the commitments, in particular those relating to the involvement of the environment and the entrepreneurs here, and how they will deal with visitors; at least, the commitment of all of them and the way in which they will be involved in the whole process, ensuring access wherever possible. There is one strange thing that remains: the discussion of whether there can still be a very gross differentiation in the phase, in which the First Chamber, the Council of State and General Affairs could be dealt with at a rate just different from the overall project. The CDA Group asks the Minister or can respond to the letter sent to us by the First Chamber the day before yesterday, 8 December. I feel that a number of motions are being tabled and that the Minister's response to that letter can be quite relevant. At least I noticed this in the suspension earlier. On this basis, the CDA can consider what it will do with those motions, which are likely to be tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u160	Mr. Chairman. I will be very clear about it: the PVV does not like this megalomaniac renovation plan. In our view it is not strictly necessary, certainly not for the part in which we, the House of Representatives, sit. This building was refurbished and renovated less than 25 years ago. We can all see what a beautiful state it is. Indeed, some maintenance needs to be done, especially in the part of the Upper House. But 500 million, and taking this building all the way, goes way too far for us; especially at these times, when the citizens can barely make ends meet because of the cuts and tax increases of the same cabinet. In order to spend taxpayers' money like this at this time, we find it very inappropriate. I therefore have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Renovation Binnenhof cabinet plan goes far beyond necessary maintenance or minor improvements and megalomaniac features;]] [[believes that it costs unnecessarily much money in times when the Dutch have been saddled with huge increases in charges;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up a cheaper and less extensive maintenance plan for the Binnenhof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Madlener. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34293-8]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u161	Mr. Chairman. Thanks to the Minister. A great deal of work has already been done, but I am not convinced yet. I'm afraid we're going into a trap, because everything at once is complex, big and represents a risk of delay and additional budget. We have experience of this from recent years; think of the Fyra and all kinds of big projects. I don't think it's necessary either. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Binnenhof is a complex consisting of several buildings and functions, which appears to be possible for accelerated partial completion of the Binnenhof at limited additional costs, but that an integral variant has not been developed;]] [[Whereas it is not desirable for the entire Binnenhof to remain closed for 5.5 years, especially as regards the cultural historical interests of the oldest part of the Binnenhof;]] [[invites the government to develop an alternative phased variant, in which the buildings of General Affairs, the First Chamber and the Council of State are first converted and delivered in an accelerated manner, and only then to submit the section of the House of Representatives and the elaboration of this variant to the House of Representatives for the summer,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Koolmees, Mr Bishop, Mr Segers and Mr Van Raak. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34293-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u162	Why do I think this motion is so important? In fact, it is an effect of variant two, which has fallen prematurely. It is therefore not further developed. It also meets the wishes of the First Chamber in the letter of the day before yesterday. I think the Minister should take this into account in his assessment of this motion. The alternative might be for the First Chamber to meet in the old hall. That could be cost savings. I'd like to get a response to this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Binnenhof is a complex consisting of several buildings and functions, which appears to be possible for accelerated partial completion of the Binnenhof at limited additional costs, but that an integral variant has not been developed;]] [[Whereas it is not desirable for the entire Binnenhof to remain closed for 5.5 years, especially as regards the cultural historical interests of the oldest part of the Binnenhof;]] [[invites the government, an alternative phased variant of the conversion of the Lower House, to continue to operate for as long as possible at the Binnenhof, and to submit the impact of this variant to the Lower House for the summer,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Koolmees, Mr Bishop, Mr Segers and Mr Van Raak. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34293-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u163	I have two further comments to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u164	You've run out of time, and you've interrupted a lot of things. I would like to move on to the next speaker, Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u165	Mr. Chairman. During the renovation, the shop remains open. At least I've always learned that, also from VVD'ers by the way. Now it looks like the store is closing anyway. 76 Members of Parliament have already expressed their views on this matter. The rest of us still have a choice to make. I must honestly say that this is not easy for a number of reasons. I find it very complicated to note that great maintenance has been put forward for a long time. It will also be postponed for another five years. Then there will be a huge project for really a lot of money, namely 500 million. I have a dilemma. If we leave the Binnenhof, I think we'll regret that very much in the future. However, I cannot rule out the fact that we will also be very sorry if we stay here, with all these major renovations. It's not an easy choice. I think it's gonna be extra complicated if this Chamber chooses a different variant than the First Chamber. The Minister received a letter from the First Chamber suggesting another variant. We have also tabled a motion for a resolution on this subject. I do see a real problem when this Chamber chooses one variant and the First Chamber chooses the other variant. After all, the Chambers together form the States-General. I foresee that the Minister and the National Real Estate Company will have a problem. Which variant is it going to be? I ask the Minister to reflect on this and take this into account in his assessment of the motion I tabled together with Mr Koolmees and a number of others on the further development of a variant.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u166	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his commitment to the list of victims. There is now a whole history of 50PLUS proposals that were first rejected and then embraced. Think, for example, of the ambassador for old age employment. If we don't choose to rebuild the Hotel from the first floor, I'm sure we'll be talking about a missed opportunity in 15 years' time. That is why I would like to highlight this proposal with a motion for a resolution. The Minister will undoubtedly advise against this. However, I have already noted the date of his 65th birthday. That's a good time to look back at who's right. 50PLUS is based on information from the National Real Estate Company which was issued to our group last Tuesday. These findings are very different from what the Minister has just told us. If the Minister is allowed to conduct a small investigation now, we may not have to wait until Tuesday 10 December 2030. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Binnenhof complex is being renovated;]] [[Whereas this is an excellent opportunity to opt for new construction rather than renovation of the part of the Lower House referred to as "hotel";]] [[calls on the government to investigate the possibilities of new construction at the location of the current section of the House of Representatives designated "hotel" and to inform the Chamber of Representatives by March 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34293-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u167	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for the answers in the first term. I missed an answer on the accessibility of the building. This applies not only to wheelchair users, but also to people with visual or auditory disabilities. This week we are talking about the UN Convention on the Rights of People with Disabilities. So I would like to receive another response to that point. Thank you also for the commitment that the Chamber will receive the report of the discussions with ProDemos on the continuation of its activities at an acceptable level. That ProDemos can continue his activities, everyone believes. Glad to hear that the Social Return on Investment is already a standing practice in government procurement. However, with regard to the Law on Fake Constructions, which has just entered into force, the Labour Party wants the Minister to set a very sharp example and take the lead. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, on 1 July last, the Fake Constructions Act entered into force on the basis of which a client became more responsible for the correct compliance with the applicable terms of employment in the performance of a contract;]] [[Whereas the government has an exemplary role, including in its role as a client;]] [[calls on the Government to be fully aware of its responsibility on the basis of the above-mentioned law and to do everything necessary to fulfil this responsibility, so that there will be no underpayment, unfair competition and repression, both in the award of the contract and in the performance of the work carried out in connection with the renovation of the Binnenhof;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wolbert and Mr Kerstens. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34293-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u168	Mr Segers has indicated that he will not use his second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u169	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his answer in the first term. I have already said it in the first term: the VVD supports the short renovation and thus the execution of the renovation in one go. However, we also understand the desire of the Supreme Court to return earlier, namely after 2.7 years. However, that becomes a bit problematic when it means that the House of Representatives has to stay away from the Binnenhof for another year. Because we're in this together. However, I have a proposal to save some time. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Cabinet has chosen to remodel the Binnenhof at once in 5.5 years;]] [[Whereas the renovation of the Binnenhof is still for one month each year because of the use of the Knight's Room for Prince's Day;]] [[Calls on the Government to examine how much time savings can be made in moving Prinsjesdag during the time of the renovation to another representative location in The Hague;]] [[further requests the Government to move for a period of six months or more of Princess' Day for the duration of the renovation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Caluwe. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34293-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u170	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Minister for his answers in the first term. However, I still find it irresponsible and rather absurd that we combine the words'sober' and '500 million'. We are talking about at least five and a half years and a lot of money, while 1.2 million people live below the poverty line and more than 600,000 people are unemployed. It is irresponsible and irresponsible to explain to the public that we are allocating EUR 0.5 billion to our own Binnenhof, telling the story that this would be sober. A year ago, I think the Labour Party and the VVD also agreed that we should not do it this way. Now these two parties have taken a different view. I don't think there's much evidence of a spinal cord. Those who cried most loudly that we should not leave the Binnenhof, have packed all their bags and are ready for departure. That's too bad. We're gonna regret this. We shouldn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u171	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for answering the questions, as usual to the point and clearly. The minister called it a dream team. I would like to point out that he has chosen this floor. I've been talking about a project team of the most experts. But I think we can find each other on the content of this. I am glad that it is intended to be developed in this way and that the project team is given strong direction. I would like to comment on the variants I have asked for. There is a subvariant "old Binnenhof" and a subvariant "Second Chamber complex." My question was to investigate whether an acceleration could be introduced. This corresponds to the motion tabled by Mr Koolmees on behalf of the SGP. We await the Minister's comments on this. I continue to find one point very unsatisfactory. I did not want to put it that way in the first period, but I would like to mention it in particular. Variant 2 lost early weight. It is said that the range of costs of that variant is 500 million to 600 million. That's 25 million to 125 million more than the variant the cabinet is in favour of. Compared to variant 9, for example, the only difference is that in variant 2 the Lower House and the building of the Council of State are evacuated three years later, after the Binnenhof, the First Chamber and General Affairs has been delivered. This would generate additional costs of around 100 million. That's not gonna happen to me. So sometimes there's something weird in the trade-off. It would be good if this could be clarified, but this could also be done with the undertaking that it would be taken into account in the request made by the aforementioned motion for further clarification. That would be a great solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u172	This brought an end to the second term of the Chamber. I give the floor to the Minister for his second-term response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u173	Mr. Chairman. Mr Ronnes asked for my response to the letter from the First Chamber. I think I did that in the first place. I have indicated that it is possible to return phasedly and that, as far as we can now estimate, additional costs of 7 million are involved. In addition, we could agree on the following. If, with the further elaboration, in which we make these amounts more precise, the amount of 7 million becomes hard, I will come back to the Chamber because I do not have that amount. But maybe we're lucky and we can make savings in other places. Where, I'm afraid, there's no room in it, this means for the House of Representatives that there's going to be a bit longer about the renovation. I cannot make that concession on behalf of the House of Representatives. If the House of Representatives says that it can live with this in the context of a good relationship with the House of Representatives, I am fine with that. I can deal with that, but the House of Representatives must be able to deal with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u174	I have one more question about that. The First and Second Chambers are only two of the users of the building. For example, if the House of Representatives returns a year later, this means that all employees who work here are no longer here for a year. What is their formal position in this decision-making process? Will the minister go back for consultation? Are they getting involved? What is the position of the other users if such a decision would fall?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u175	Also in this variant we have close consultation with users and local residents. The formal decision-making power is, of course, here. Mrs Wolbert is right that this will have consequences for the employees. I agree. For the employees across the street, it means that they can return a little earlier. It is not a variant that is better in every respect, because otherwise it would have come out, but I have already indicated that it is feasible and that there are two consequences. The financial consequences need to be further deepened. I don't have the extra money I need for this variant, but maybe we'll find out that this isn't necessary. If I have to, I really have to come back to the Chamber. As far as the duration is concerned, a concession must indeed be made by the House of Representatives and its staff members. They will be absent for a longer period of time in the context of a profit for the members of the First Chamber and employees of the First Chamber, the Council of State and the Ministry of General Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u176	I must admit that I have no idea of the relationship between the number of employees of the Upper House and the Lower House. Is that 2:1 or 4:3 or anything else? I don't have a picture of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u177	If the Minister agrees, I can say something about this. The joint works councils have written a letter about their vision of the renovation. We could ask them to comment on this proposal so that the Chamber can involve it. The Chamber can do that, but that has to be asked for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u178	I'm gonna have to get used to this guy. The President proposes that the Chamber request a response from the two works councils. That's what I'm doing here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u179	A Member of Parliament is now making a request to the works councils; I am a member of that committee. I only know the current letter from the works councils, which unanimously opt for the short version. I assume they are listening and have heard Mrs Wolbert's request. Mr Ronnes's core question, he asked me about my response to the letter from the First Chamber, which I answered. In his motion in part No. 8 Mr Madlener asked the government to draw up a cheaper and less extensive maintenance plan for the Binnenhof. I really do not think that is realistic, given all the experts consulted and everything we can perceive ourselves. So I'm really gonna have to dissuade that motion. Mr Koolmees has tabled two motions together with Mr Bishop, Mr Segers and Mr Van Raak. In the motion in part No. 9 the government is asked to develop an alternative phased variant, whereby the buildings of General Affairs, the First Chamber and the Council of State are first converted and delivered in an accelerated manner and then only the part of the House of Representatives. Mr Bishop rightly pointed out that this is actually variant 2. It has, however, fallen into effect earlier. He's very interested in what will happen if you continue to work out that variant. I actually want to make the following proposal. We are dealing with an urgent situation here. With regard to the safety and health of all employees, we cannot continue to postpone it for ourselves. Here's what I want us to do. My people and I are starting preparations for variant 3 or 9. That doesn't really matter in the preparations. At the same time, we are making a deepening impact on variant 2. So we make the sums that go with it. I'm just having a little back-up on that, which takes about four months. Then there is no four months' standstill, but in four months' time the Chamber will have a detailed picture of variant 2. If the motion can be carried out in this way, I can leave it to the Chamber to decide.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u180	However, I would like to make the following comment: that after those four months, if it appears that variant 2 is promising in a further consideration, that variant can still be chosen. It's got to be more than just a cosmetic exam.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u181	Of course. For me, it is crucial that there should not be a standstill. There will therefore be real preparations for the preferred option. In four months' time, the Chamber will receive a report on the further development of variant 2, just as now variants 3 and 11 have been developed. If the House says in a majority at that time that things must be different, and we agree on this, we must also talk about the finances, then it would not be technically possible at that time. So once again, with the agreement that we can continue to work, I can judge the motion in part No. Leave 9 to the Chamber. I would like to speak about the second motion tabled by the same proposers, namely, No. 10. I cannot tell from the request what the difference is with variant 11, which is completely worked out. The motion asks for an alternative phased version of the conversion of the Lower House, which allows the Lower House to continue to function as long as possible at the Binnenhof. That's in variant 11, so it's not clear to me what else should be investigated.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u182	What should variant 12 be, Mr Koolmees?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u183	Sorry, in the elaborate long variant.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u184	And that is the effect of variant 1. The basic variant, the long version that lasts for 13 years, is variant 1 from the letter of 18 November. This is a matter of general affairs first, then the First Chamber and then the Council of State. So that's another variant. If variant 2 is worked out and that is a promising variant, you have another variant on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u185	It's about the order in which things happen. Then I am actually making the same proposal: that in the same four months, so without delay on the main route, this option will also be worked out. Under the same conditions, I shall also leave this motion to the Chamber. Mr Van Raak indicated that it is a very complicated choice and that he supports the motions I have just referred to. Mr Krol has come back to the more radical approach at the hotel. He actually wants to tear that down completely and replace it with new ones. Yeah, let's leave the facade. Now that I have just indicated to his colleagues that I am prepared to use four months for further research without delay, it is fair to make that commitment to Mr Krol as well. I leave this option to the House's judgement under the same conditions. Mrs Wolbert asked me to look into accessibility for disabled people. In any case, accessibility will be improved by the measures we intend to take. However, there are parts of the complex that fall under the category "very old and complex buildings," for example the Gratelijke Zalen van het Binnenhof. I cannot guarantee that everything will be completely accessible to everyone, but where that is possible, we will do so. I understand that wish very well. It also extends to visually impaired persons and hearing impaired persons. Mrs Wolbert, together with Mr Kerstens, has tabled a motion calling on the government to assume our responsibility on the basis of the False Construction Act and to do everything necessary to fulfil that responsibility when it comes to awarding and carrying out its work. I'd be happy to say so. Should the motion be put to the vote, the verdict is Chamber. Mrs De Caluwé also asked me how I looked at the wishes of the First Chamber. In my reply to Mr Ronnes, I went into this in detail. She's filed a motion to save time. It asks first of all to examine how much time that can be saved and also to move the activities on Prinsjesdag at a time saving of six months or more. I would like to ask Mrs De Caluwe to maintain the first request and to make the second one dependent on the outcome of the investigation. With regard to Mrs De Caluwe, I would also like to be prepared to do the research requested without a break. However, on the basis of the results of that study, I would like to assess whether the activities on Prinsjesdag are being relocated. In addition to the aspect of time, Princess Day also has an emotional, symbolic value.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u186	If I see this in conjunction with the Minister's proposals in response to previous motions, I am prepared to remove the two operative part. I'll keep the first operative part. We can then look at this in conjunction with all the studies.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u187	If that operative part lapses, I shall leave the motion to the Court's judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u188	De Caluwé motion (34293, nr. 13) has been amended to read as follows: The Chamber, heard the debate, Whereas the Cabinet has chosen to remodel the Binnenhof at once in 5.5 years; Whereas the renovation of the Binnenhof is stopped every year for up to one month because of the use of the Knight's Room for Prince's Day; calls on the Government to examine how much time can be saved by moving Prinsjesdag during the time of the renovation to another representative location in The Hague, and goes to the order of the day. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She's getting No. 14, was No. 13 (34293).
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u189	Mr Kuzu remains against the necessary renovation as far as I am concerned. I'm afraid I can't make him completely happy. I hope that Mr Bishop will have responded adequately to the motions he supported. Mr. Chairman. I hope I have answered all the questions in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-9.u190	Vote on the motions tabled will take place next Tuesday.
