ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment to the Upper House. I give the floor to Mrs Oomen-Ruijten, who will make her maiden speech. So I'm gonna call again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-3.u2	Madam President. For a maiden speech, the introduction may be longer, because it also allows you to issue a business card. The fact that I am allowed to stand here is a great honour, even though being a representative of the people is not new to me, in the Netherlands and for a very long time in Europe. With all its strength and energy, I have been able to devote many years to the task we are all facing, to helping shape a society that is best for the citizens of this country. It is still a privilege for me to be a representative of the people. You are chosen, you get confidence and even if that is for the senate a little more remote from the citizens, taking the oath you accept your personal serving mission. The Senate doesn't set the political agenda. We do not have the political primacy, because that is on the other side. Our task is to reflect without the delusion or perhaps the majority of the day on legitimacy, feasibility, enforcement and effectiveness of legislation, and then let that be reflected in voting behaviour. The beauty of the Senate is that in that reflection we all bring our own background and, when I look at the composition of this house, very rich experience. The discussion and cooperation in such a beautiful context I find a privilege. In the eighties I came to this house with some regularity. As a member of the CDA Group Board of the House of Representatives, we met several times a year on difficult issues with the management of the CDA Senate Group in order, as we called it, to put the clocks on the same footing. Our first parliamentary group was led by Mr Ad Kaland, a very striking personality. We provided our input as members of the board of the Second Chamber of the CDA, but the conclusion of the consultation was that the Senate was not a copy of the Second Chamber and that it did not want to be. The First Chamber, as he said, has an independent judgment. I would add that they did so on a very regular basis at the time, without this leading to a debate on the abolition of the Senate. In the Senate, we are not party political representatives in this sense, but we, as representatives of the people, do have our identity, our background and our pattern of values and standards. My roots as a Christian Democrat lie deep in a social market economy where a government is needed, but then a government that spreads responsibilities and encourages people to take responsibility for each other. For me, I would add that, based on the roots of Christian democracy in which it is there for the other and the solidarity that knows no physical boundaries, I will endeavour to rid our Dutch role in Europe of the lukewarmness and disinterest that has now arisen in Dutch society. My dear friend, René van der Linden, who preceded me on this dossier, I certainly will not be able to match. However, I promise that I will try to maintain the footprint he left behind. I would like to compliment the First Chamber on Europe. I do so from my experience and knowledge that in this house there was always a warm interest in Europe and European laws and regulations. I would like to express my appreciation for this, Mr President. Let us also start with pensions at European level. For years I was allowed to act as rapporteur for the pension file. In fact, this is the coordinator who will ensure that the texts that are being voted on and which continue are implemented into Europe. Not only legislation, but also green and white papers allowed me to lead through the European Parliament in a good way. We have to say that we are doing this here, but we did so there too, because the old age provision for a European population, which is cashing in everywhere, is really under pressure. Demographic factors, which mean that a shrinking number of young workers must provide the happy and long-lived pensioners with an adequate income, are a major challenge throughout Europe. Where there are many places in Europe, including our Belgian neighbours, where pay as you go systems are used, there will be upward pressure on public finances or downward pressure on pension benefits. We have seen what has happened in Greece, Portugal and other countries. For the countries concerned, but also for us, when we have to be jointly prudent in the context of the EMU criteria, this is not an attractive perspective. Saving for the pension, in which we really are an example in the Netherlands, is the most sustainable solution. In addition to sustainable and sustainable, there is also safe and adequate. With the nftk, the government has tried to implement safety and sustainability. As a result, the adequacy of this individual pension has come under considerable pressure in the Netherlands. I'm just establishing that now. The Chamber will return to this at the beginning of the new year. It is important to reduce the cost of our pension systems by placing the pension funds to be managed more efficiently and often in larger units somewhere. I come now to the dossier that we have been discussing today and give an opinion on the law and on the novella, which allows the formation of a general pension fund. Let me say in advance that the CDA Group is sympathetic to the objective that we want to achieve through this law. We see it as a tool to make it possible for small enterprise pension funds to join forces. That is a good thing. Pooling forces can, of course, also be achieved through the fusion of funds. This is often difficult because parties in a merger have to give up their own identity and their own rules. In addition, other rules often prevent a merger from taking place. Think of the requirements relating to the level of coverage. So that's not necessary with an apf. After all, the proposed ring-fencing, the shielding of assets per circle of solidarity, protects the culture, the individuality and the risk that one has in that circle. The larger apf environment can provide more efficient and cheaper management. The aim of the apf is inspired by the need for economies of scale and cost reduction in the small funds while preserving their own culture. The stakeholder body to be set up shall monitor and represent the stakeholders of a collection circle. So far, so good, but are all these beautiful expectations true? Are the costs really going to be reduced? Looking at governance alone, we will soon have an independent administration of the general pension fund in addition to the stakeholder bodies. I have no objection to that, but at least I have serious doubts about savings in our realm. I wonder if the costs are really getting lower. One question that I always ask myself first, especially in the pension debate is: what will make the participant better? After all, this is about the participants. Anyone in the pension world, including the government, should ask this question. It would also be nice if the Secretary of State would do that, looking back. Haven't we put too much focus on the long term, safety, sustainability? Have we assessed them again on the basis of today's standards, and then let them down a little bit on the adequacy of pension income? The income model of a general pension fund is in asset management. What exactly is that about? Can the separate assets be managed by a separate fiduciary? Then where is the power of divination over such an administrator? If asset management can and must save costs, is it not possible to achieve this by using much more passive and simple investment strategies? When establishing a general pension fund, the fund must have a resistance case. This capital must not come from pensions; that capital comes from elsewhere. If I see it correctly, there is actually only one truly general pension fund of occupational pension funds, namely the proposed general pension fund in the financial sector. And when I look at the website of insurers, the general pension fund will be mainly created by insurers. Is that why the general pension fund will only be a fund which bundles small enterprise funds on a very exceptional basis? Can the Secretary of State reflect on what appears to be coming now? Insurance companies no longer offer insured benefits. As soon as the insured scheme expires, the employer will face either having to pay a higher contribution or having to go to a general pension fund. The advantage over the insured scheme at the insurer is that the solvency premium is released for that insurer and that there is therefore also a change in the commitment to the participants. They go from 99.5% security in insurers to 97.5%, with all the consequences, including for interested parties. Can the Secretary of State imagine that with the current low interest rate insurers, what would they like to make room for in their balance sheet and include insured schemes in the new vehicle general pension fund? I think there is also a point here for the supervisor, the Dutch Bank. In my view, this should be closely monitoring the impact on the participants and, therefore, ensuring that the participants, who have to give individual consent, are adequately informed in such a situation. What happens if a participant says no? We didn't take care of that. The note following the final report no longer builds on it. Then the novelle. Following the opinion of the Council of State, the possibility for merging occupational pension funds to apply ring-fencing, introduced with amendment Lodders-Vermeij, has been removed from the law. On behalf of my group, I have stated in the documents that we partly understand the objections of the Council of State. The starting point of the amendment was that funds wishing to merge can use the apf. The Council of State sees the effects on the functioning of the market and Europe as important concerns. Are we still here? I wonder, because the amendment is based on a merger of occupational pension funds already made compulsory. Why has the government not chosen to mitigate the unintended effects of this amendment? The government undertakes to come up with a new bill, most probably inspired by the SEO investigation. It is a law that overcomes the problem and ensures that solidarity and obligation within the collectivity are strictly regulated. The consequence is that the pension scheme will now be made compulsory and no longer the sectoral pension fund. I know that the pension federation is in favour of having freedom of choice between making the fund compulsory and making the scheme compulsory, but what is the point of this? Are we there? A compulsory occupational pension fund has many schemes and drags them with it for years. Moreover, these are all well-meant results from collective bargaining. Could the Secretary of State imagine that any scheme, each with its own good or bad risks, could be decided to create a separate collection circle? I would like to point out that although occupational pension funds should be able to use an apf, very intensive consultation is needed in order to avoid improper use. That improper use can be caused by the delimitation and obligation of regulations and thus by the risks involved. The solidarity that now exists in the entire fund could be undermined in this way. If we are serious about putting the interests of participants first, I think that is a crucial question. By the way, if funds are not allowed to put their own pension assets in the apf-buffer, what solutions are we going to come up with? I will end with the VAT problem. I have looked very closely at the position taken by the majority of the groups in this House. I note that the arguments, quotes and defences put forward by Members on the interpretation of the judgments cited by the government are apparently directed at deaf ears. What is a common investment fund? The government continues to interpret that in the scariest sense. All the countries around us see that a little bit different. Yet our government insists that it is right on its side. She'll see the trouble, but she won't do anything about it. It would be up to Europe to do something about that. No, Madam Secretary of State, that is up to the Netherlands itself. The Netherlands is the boss in its own home and is responsible for the fact that a Dutch head is being placed on VAT legislation, which deprives pension participants of around 100 million in a DB system. By not making use of the policy freedom that experts believe exists within the VAT Directive, the government creates an uneven playing field within the Netherlands. Indeed, operators of DB schemes do not have to pay VAT on their outsourced services and performers of DC schemes. I find this incomprehensible, because the government itself states in the documents that in the current Dutch DB schemes the pension result is determined by the amount of the premium deposited and the investment result obtained. Let the latter, the investment result, be just the most important in the ATP judgment for a common investment fund. Why is there this persistence, I wonder. I would like to say that we in the CDA Group are committed to a solution to this problem. I'll come to a conclusion. The Dutch pension sector is always set as an example in Europe. I did it myself with love. In our pension sector, we have spread the risks over a first, a second and a currently less used but also less stimulated third pillar. The beautiful system we have deserves our pride and our support. In the long life of the participants in a period of low interest rates, we must make every effort to keep that beautiful system future-proof. However, a safe and sustainable system should also contribute to adequate incomes and fair welfare development for pensioners. We forget that sometimes. I look forward to the government's answers with tension.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-3.u3	Mrs Oomen, congratulations on your maiden speech. It is, to say the least, extraordinary that a Member of Parliament with 33 years of parliamentary experience makes a maiden speech. I can imagine that you experienced a slight cultural shock when you came to the First Chamber. Unlike the European Parliament, we have only one meeting place, one official language and one tenth of the number of Members you are used to. But we also have a large number of rituals and traditions, which have recently been described in our anniversary book and where the maiden speech is one of them. By the way, I don't want to imply that you're a stranger at the Binnenhof. After all, it is the place where you started your career as a representative of the people in 1981, after working for a number of years in public relations at the Provinciale Limburgse Elektrics-Maatschappij. You were the youngest Member of Parliament at the time, and you were mainly concerned with social affairs, the environment, consumer policy, monument policy and disability policy. At that time, you had already held political-administrative positions in the Catholic People's Party and joined the Christian Democratic Group and the party board. In 1989, you were elected to the European Parliament, where you would one day become the longest-sitting Dutch MEP. Four times you have been re-elected, performing twice to obtain a seat with preferred votes. In 1999, you broke all the records with about 100,000 votes. This fact alone proves that you have always maintained a strong bond with your constitution, your Limburg supporters. The province rewarded your enormous commitment to Limburg, but also to the Euregio Maas-Rhine, on 19 January last year with the medal of honour of the province, after you had received the medal of merit earlier. During this ceremony you were praised for your commitment in the field of frontier work. On behalf of the European Parliament, you have successfully argued for citizens working in another EU country to be able to take their supplementary pension rights more easily across borders. You have also worked hard on topics such as misleading advertising, cross-border healthcare and social services for students and trainees. Your consultative work on relations between the European Union and Turkey received great attention. In the European Parliament, you were, among other things, the first Vice-President of the EPP, the Christian Democrat Group. You were also Vice-President of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, Vice-President of the Temporary Committee on Genetics, member of the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment, member of the Women's Equal Rights Committee and chairman and member of the South Africa parliamentary delegation. At the time of your farewell to the European Parliament, you were awarded the honorable Robert Schuman Medal for your work for the EPP Group. You have a good sense of communication and always have a clear understanding of the importance of politics or of a particular political issue. You do that in an open, accessible way. This is also called "pütsbaar" in Limburg. Perhaps I speak it wrong, because I am not from Limburg, as you probably already understood by my hard g. "Pütsbaar" seems to me to be a special quality for a Member of Parliament. I wish you every success in your further contribution to the work of this Chamber. Before I suspend, I only ask you to stick to it if you register with a certain speaking time. You signed up for 15 minutes, but you went over it for four minutes. I shall suspend the sitting in order to give the honourable Members the opportunity to congratulate you on your maiden speech, after I have done so myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-3.u4	We will continue with the treatment of the General Pension Fund Act. I call Mr Kok.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-3.u5	Mr. Chairman. Traditionally, I begin by congratulating Mrs Oomen on her beautiful maiden speech. The present legislative proposal introduces a new vehicle which, with a view to increasing consolidation in pension countries, should simply allow collectivity circles to implement their pension schemes separately within the structure of a new type of pension fund, for the sake of short term. The new general pension fund, which is not hampered by the restrictive requirements of the Pension Act with regard to domain delineation and a ban on ringfencing, should provide this possibility. Ideally, this should lead to good execution at a competitive price in the interests of the participants. Maintaining self-identity and solidarity in one's own circle is a priority. A bundled implementation without an exclusive domain definition should offer economies of scale with lower implementation costs and less administrative burden. Ringfencing, i.e. holding separate assets, is the explicit and compelling starting point. However, determining the scope of the collection circles and the choice of assignment is reserved for the social partners. To what extent is the latter an uncertain factor for the intended scale increase? It is noteworthy, however, that the interest of the citizen and in this case of the participant in such a system approach is hardly reflected, except as possible as a customer of the services of large-scale operators. In principle, all types of pension funds should be able to benefit from the benefits of the general pension fund. Unfortunately, this is not yet the case for compulsory occupational pension funds. The PVV Group sees the obvious benefits of this approach, although they will still have to be seen in practice. It is noteworthy that the apparently wide-ranging urgency for further consolidation of implementation, which is the basis of this legislative proposal, seems to have been largely promoted by the Netherlands Bank, which has actively, through internet consultation, faced funds with "vulnerability indicators" formulated for this purpose. The downsizing of the number of funds to well below 300 years old is at least the expectation of the same DNB; future stability is extremely relevant in this sector, even if it is the question of whether the opening-up of general pension funds does not bring about the reverse. I would like to receive a response from the Secretary of State on this point. Isn't wild growth interrupting? How does the Secretary of State look at the fact that various parties as well as insurers have been diving massively on the apf? How is the proper functioning of the market ensured? Isn't there a risk of market disruption? What are the guarantees of good execution? Price and quality do not always go together. Despite the fact that my group is in principle in favour of this bill, it has a number of reservations. Firstly, my group considers the debatable fact that a widely adopted amendment, which made it possible to allow compulsory occupational pension funds to ring in the event of merger, has been rather lightly rejected. Although the Secretary of State initially referred to the amendment in question as being sympathetic and also saw advantages in it, in our opinion it has given way rather quickly to the criticism of the Council of State. Why? Is this a question of interpretation and appreciation of this Secretary of State? The translation of the opinion of the Council of State has certainly been interpreted and unwrapped to the detriment of the amendment. In our view, the Council is less firm in its wording. I refer in particular to the passages on pages 8 and 9 of the opinion, which are much less absolute and leave room for further clarification. For example, the Council states literally that "even if the ban on ringfencing would no longer apply and solidarity at fund level would disappear and exist only at the level of the collection circle, there would be a considerable number of solidarity features to justify infringements of competition law" and that "in advance it cannot be stated that the granting of ringfencing by occupational pension funds will result in the compulsoryation of occupational pension funds being no longer justified by European law." The fact that the amendment does not provide for safeguards and accompanying policies in the event of omission to counter the possible anti-competitive effects of ringfencing was easy to remedy. All in all, in the opinion of the PVV Group, the Secretary of State does not act convincingly by referring the amendment to the wastebasket too quickly on shaky grounds, assisted by the same Council of State, which in arren weere but concludes that it is better to consider the question of ringfencing for this group "in conjunction with the possible change in the pension system following the wider pension debate." It looks like moving on from the problem. The logic is really being violated by then using the SEO report to come up with a completely different idea of how to provide the compulsory occupational pension funds with access to a general pension fund in the long term. A resounding perspective, at best, but no more than that. The choice to include the obligation in this discussion by decoupling it from the fund to the scheme seems unnecessarily constructed. The door seems to be opened to an unfathomable future, in which periodic shopping at lowest cost becomes the trend. The aim of this cabinet is to "full and unlimited" the free market for the sale and execution of pension products. Market forces are the highest. Where that leads to, we have often been able to see in the past, especially in the care sector. The quality of the product pension has been unnecessarily undermined by this cabinet in recent years. What is the basis of this unrighteous belief in the market? The terminology used in the SEO report in question, on which the State Secretary leaves for convenience, does not offer any comfort in revoking this worn-out term: more scope for market operation and competition and the expectation that this will be an incentive to improve quality and reduce costs. This seems difficult to reconcile with the basic idea that the obligation as an exception to the competition rules is allowed precisely because it is a service of general economic interest and because it is necessary to implement a solidarity pension scheme. Moreover, the SEO researchers are not always equally determined in their findings as regards market distortion and outcomes. Remarkably, in its investigation, SEO focuses only on the question whether, given the separation of the link between the fund and the scheme, a possible adjustment is permissible under competition law. Instead of first considering whether, given possible limitations and omissions, the amendment was not simply to expand on essential points. In that case, there was more right to do so than to put it aside now. At all four points of difference identified, this was to be done in our view. Why didn't that happen? A thick and expensive SEO report could have spared the State Secretary and us. We cannot escape the impression that the means that the Secretary of State now intends to use is worse than the alleged ailment she thinks it would prevent. A solution for the present situation has, in any case, been put out of the picture, without it being clear when it will be. This is where the large group of millions of participants in a compulsory occupational pension fund has not been helped with the apf vehicle. If that ever happens again, it's our question. A second aspect to which my group would like to make a comment is that the difference in the VAT regime for management services has also just been recalled by Mrs Oomen-Oomen-Oomen-Oomen-Oomen-Oomen-Oomen-Oomen-Oomen-Oomen-Oomen-Oomen-Oomen-Oomen-Oomen-Oomen-Oomen-Oomen-Oomen-Oomen-Oomen-Oomen-Oomen-Oomen-Oomen-Oomen-Oomen-Oomen-Oen. Simply: the management of DC schemes is VAT-free, while management of DB schemes is properly taxed. This choice of the cabinet is extremely debatable. In that respect, the response in the response is flimsy and does not support the choice of the cabinet in any way. There is therefore another attempt: there is no comparability of the Dutch DB schemes with those in the Wheels judgment; the Netherlands does not have any landfill schemes. Mistakes are simply the responsibility of the participants. It is true that essential elements of the two relevant judgments Wheels and ATP confirm that funds implementing a DB or CDC scheme can also be considered as a common investment fund and therefore VAT exempt. The crucial point is that the pension to be received in such schemes depends on the value of the assets and the results. The criteria of DB and CDC also meet those of the ATP judgment: 1. investment according to the principle of risk sharing; 2. financing by the participants; 3. investment risk borne by the members of the fund. Let that be just the criteria that the cabinet states should lead to VAT exemption in the case of a common investment fund. This is also in line with the opinion of the ESC of 20 February 2015, which literally states that "in practice benefits are not guaranteed' and in fact there are premium agreements whereby the distribution depends on the investment income. Nor is this consistent with the vision of the cabinet, despite the superficial analysis of the 2013 Finances. Moreover, the Netherlands is not even obliged to distinguish VAT treatment under European legislation. The harmonised VAT rules have deliberately left room for manoeuvre. Why this deviant policy? It is entertaining to read that the Netherlands, as the good boy in the classroom, is going to complain to the European Commission that the other countries are doing so unfairly by applying the same VAT regime. This artificial and unsubstantiated distinction in tax treatment only causes disadvantages. Is that what you're implying? Why does the Secretary of State persist in this questionable reasoning? And why can't it make sense to have an independent external investigation? At the novelle it seems not a problem to let SEO do that. I am considering tabling a motion tomorrow to return to this point. My group considers this approach undesirable; it is disturbing in the discussion about the future organisation of the pension system or what is left of it. A further shift from DB to DC arrangements is obvious; this is not contradicted by the State Secretary, who "does not exclude this development." Where this has led to us in England, where the wild wave of market reform under Thatcher has given rise to the new form of 'individual accounts', with all the individual tragedies resulting. In addition, it is an obstacle for apf to implement both DB and DC schemes. Finally, it leads to a deterioration of the Dutch market position vis-à-vis other Member States. I will conclude, but not without taking a short look at the wider context of the issue in retirement country. My group does not see at all the blessings this cabinet claims to have let down. The fact that the pension system is "robust partly because of the need for maintenance" is absolutely ridiculous. Without repeating in extenso our previous negative criticism regarding in particular the build-up reductions in the Witteveen framework, the increase in the AOW age and as a complete low point the new ftk. The flexibilisation of the labour market will complete the disastrous picture. The current UFR issue is still under discussion at the beginning of next year, due to a bizarre free distribution of money by the ECB, of extremely and unnecessarily low interest rates makes everything even more entertaining. Apart from manipulation of the cabinet side of the government wage agreement, the direct consequence is that discounts should be imposed in 2016 and over a series of later years, and that is quite direct. Indexation is already a phenomenon from the distant past. With an now-acquired indexing deficit of more than 10%, the only certainty is that it will only increase further in the next 20 years or more. This is the most imminent problem. Leaving this problem untouched implies a direct pre-sorting of a total integration of the system. Maintaining an optical coverage problem must apparently force a solution to another system. This or another cabinet can then close the door behind our ever most acclaimed pension system. Is this what this is all about? The primary discussion on the retirement ambition in itself has never been conducted at all. All this legislation is based on only one limited objective, namely the common fiscal sharer of savings, with the final result future generations with a maximum pension of a few tens of percent of the earnings received. A total future impoverishment! This unsavoury perspective is further illustrated negatively in the new Tax Plan 2016 and subsequent years, which does not have anything positive to offer in this respect either. Despite the positive objective, which can still be endorsed on paper, this legislative proposal, as I have argued, is limited and flawed. Really difficult is the proposed construction to find a later solution for a large group of compulsory occupational pension funds. Finally, my group considers it essentially incorrect and even dangerous to deliberately open the door to DC regulations through the trick of difference in VAT application.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-3.u6	Mr. Chairman. The pension sector has been in full swing in all respects in recent years. If we limit ourselves to the degree of market concentration, it can actually be seen that out of the 1,000 funds in the mid-1990s there are now more than 300. In addition, there was a limited reduction in the number of occupational pension funds, whether compulsory or non-compulsory. The savings funds and occupational pension funds also managed to maintain virtually all of them. The vast majority of the decrease is therefore reduced to the sharp decrease in the number of occupational pension funds. The bill we are discussing today in our Chamber, which aims to introduce the figure of the general pension fund, should facilitate the above development by introducing a pension fund that is not exclusively linked to one domain, under the condition of foreclosure of assets based on collectivity rings. One may wonder why such a new figure is now so urgently needed. The absence of this has in no way hindered the very strong consolidation that has taken place in recent decades, as stated in particular in the business pension fund segment. What is the added value of the proposed bill for these funds in relation to the existing situation? This question is all the more relevant as the mandatory occupational pension funds are not allowed in the present legislative proposal to become a general pension fund. An amendment to that effect, after consultation of the Council of State, has been removed from the legislative proposal by means of a novelle, with the promise that additional legislation will be proposed as soon as possible to make this possible, but still. If the pension sector wishes to benefit from the economies of scale and professionalism of the implementing organisations of the occupational pension funds, whether compulsory or non-compulsory, then the legislator should also make this possible. In this respect, therefore, there is a missed opportunity. When does the Secretary of State expect to come up with the said additional legislation? Not only do we find it undesirable to exclude the compulsory occupational pension funds from the blessings of the apf, but we also have concerns about the tax regime. The cabinet opts for an application of the VAT exemption for the management of common investment funds which, according to its own claim, is EU-proof, but this undermines the efforts to create a level playing field for the funds operating in the Netherlands and their implementing institutions. My group regrets this and is concerned about tax-driven choices in the organisation of the Dutch pension sector. Does the Secretary of State share these concerns? What steps will it take to achieve a more equal tax regime as soon as possible? My group also has a question about the obligation to attach the apf to the legal person of the foundation. Why is the cabinet so eager to prescribe this? In itself, we understand only too well that it is not desirable to obtain a profit at the same time, as there is no reason to do so. As far as we are concerned, pension management in the second pillar is a social service which is not necessarily profit-making. However, in answering our questions, the government states that a service provider of the general pension fund may operate for a profit. This opens the door to all kinds of constructions, we fear. Why is the Secretary of State so compelling in prescribing the legal person of an apf while allowing service providers to go for full profit? Finally, my group asked questions about the consequences of the Advisory referendum Act. We understand that, in the final analysis, the Netherlands Bank will be asked to suspend the granting of a permit to exercise the company of a general pension fund until a possible referendum is finally no longer possible. We would like the Secretary of State to confirm that such a postponement and possible delay will not constitute a real basis for the submission of claims. Mr President, the sector has strongly advocated the early establishment of the possibility of the general pension fund. If it's all right, he'll be served in this today. We sincerely hope that the sector will also live up to the high expectations and that the apf will have a strong position in the Dutch pension landscape.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-3.u7	Mr. Chairman. First of all, today I would like to congratulate Senator Oomen on her thorough maiden speech on this fascinating pension dossier. I think we'll meet a lot of times there. Today and tomorrow we are discussing in this House a proposal for a law for a general pension fund (apf) and a proposal that the proposal amended by the House of Representatives aims to amend Law apf while the proposal is still pending before this Chamber, a so-called novelle to the proposal Wet apf. Much has already been said about the Wet apf proposal: with the field, with the Lower House and in the written preparation also with this Chamber. However, there are still issues for the SP Group in relation to taxation that need further clarification. First, however, I should like to say a few words about the novelle. The present novelle, to be seen in conjunction with the proposal Wet apf, aims to remove the widely supported amendment by the House of Representatives/Vermeij from the proposal Wet apf, while our Chamber has not yet debated the desirability of the novelle at all in the present case. We have waited only for the initiative of the Secretary of State and the opinion of the Council of State. Both of them do not convince my group yet. Occupational pension funds and occupational pension funds will soon be able to form general pension funds, whether through extensive cooperation or not, if the proposal is accepted. Mandatory occupational pension funds cannot, in the original proposal, transform into an occupational pension fund, nor can they have their pension schemes implemented. The main reason for this is the possible market distortion that this would have. Moreover, the different levels of coverage in the event of a possible merger may be a problem. According to the House of Representatives, the Lodders/Vermeij amendment offered an elegant solution to this problem. Following the amendment and the debate in the Lower House on the possible conflict with European regulations, the State Secretary asked the Council of State for information. My group appreciates that. The reaction, on the other hand, does not convince my group yet. A first objection from the Council of State concerns a repetition of the Government's argument that the market would be disrupted. However, these are compulsory occupational pension funds. That obligation could and can be within the rules, to combat market abuse. If these funds could gain in efficiency in cooperation, the participants would benefit. However, the mandatory target group does not change. The market would only suffer if there were insufficient players left to compete. SEO Economic Research also points out this on behalf of the State Secretary. The House of Representatives did not consider the market distortions to be a convincing objection, and my group does not agree with that here either. A more relevant argument has been put forward by the Council of State regarding the lack of accompanying policy. Could it not have been dealt with by means of a novelle or whether or not delegated in lower legislation? Now the Secretary of State has chosen to reverse a very broad-based amendment. The SP Group finds that a less charming solution. Why didn't the Secretary of State find facilitating the broad-based wish of the Chamber the appropriate way? With regard to the announced new bill, I share the concerns expressed by Senator Oomen. Let me say it in advance of the debate that we will have on this later. With regard to the General Pension Fund Bill, I have one more point to discuss. The general pension fund is welcome in principle for the SP Group. Most points of discussion were sufficiently exchanged in the Lower House or in the written preparation. On one point, however, the Secretary of State and the SP Group have a great difference of opinion. I do not know whether we can bridge that today, but at least we should try to do so. The difference concerns the explanation of the Wheels and ATP PensionService judgments for the tax treatment of pension schemes in the Dutch context. The explanation of the cabinet why the Dutch defined benefit (DB) pension scheme or a CDC scheme does not meet the definition of a common investment fund is not convincing for our group. The argument why these schemes cannot be exempted from VAT is therefore not convincing for our group either. In the note following the report, the State Secretary himself writes that the ATP judgment shows that "a pension fund does qualify as a common investment fund when the pension fund is financed by the pension recipients, the savings are invested in accordance with the principle of risk sharing and the investment risk is borne by the members of the pension fund'. I ask the Secretary of State which of these qualifications would not apply. Are the pension funds not first funded by the recipients themselves? Is the fund not invested in accordance with the principle of risk sharing? And is the risk of cover not borne by the members themselves by increase in contributions or real reduction in pensions? In the reply, the State Secretary himself states that under the Dutch DB scheme the final pension result is determined by the amount of the premium deposited and the investment result obtained. Doesn't that mean, in essence, exactly the same as the conditions of the ATP judgment? Why do other Member States of the European Union see the policy freedom to include DB and DC schemes under the same VAT regime, and does the Dutch Government not see this area on the basis of the same European rules? Why does the Secretary of State not see that differences in the tax treatment of different forms of pension are undesirable for implementation costs and lead to an uneven playing field? Does the Secretary of State at least see that there is a difference of interpretation between her and a significant part of the field as well as between her and several colleagues in other EU Member States as well as between her and some of her and her to date all the political groups in this Chamber regarding the VAT obligation for the implementation of pension schemes? Would these diametrically opposed views not be a plea for a different policy? Or else at least for a thorough independent investigation on this point? Why does the Cabinet not see any added value in an independent investigation if it turns out that so many disagree with the Secretary of State on this point? I am not saying that we have wisdom, but the Group of the Party of European Socialists believes that caution should be exercised in so much doubt. I think it's the least we can do for further research. I await the Secretary of State's reply with great interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-3.u8	Mr. Chairman. We too begin by congratulating Mrs Oomen on her interesting and interesting maiden speech. I would like to speak this evening in particular about Article 83 and Article 84 of the Pension Act and the related letter of amendment to item No. 10 (34117). Pension funds show little enthusiasm to re-orient themselves to their further existence through scaling up within the structure of an apf. Insurers seem to see opportunities in the application of the apf. Against this background, it is worrying to note that the Secretary of State wishes to replace the State's control of the collective value transfer of Article 83 with the lighter supervision provided for in Article 84. The current low interest of managers of smaller pension funds and employers in moving to an apf seems to indicate a lack of vision by employers on the future of their pension funds and the further development of their members' pension claims. Their lack of their own vision can put insurers, who are the only ones who have already shown interest in the apf, in the cards. It should be avoided that the transition to an apf becomes an escape route for employers out of their responsibilities for the pension interests of their (old) employees. We are in favour of maintaining the monitoring regime provided for in Article 83 in the event of a transition to an apf. There are several grounds for doing so. The introduction of the possibility of an apf helped to better safeguard the rights and interests of participants. The replacement of the State control of Article 83 by that of Article 84 is therefore contrary to that principle. The objective of the public oversight provided for in Article 83 is to ensure the best possible protection of the rights and claims of participants in a difficult transition period. In particular, the protection of claims and rights already acquired by participants should not be lost without compensation. The State Secretary's argument that transformation creates a situation with features closer to the characteristics of liquidation is not sound. According to the text of this Article, the legal protection of Article 83 depends on the actual developments described therein and not on the interpretation of those developments: the employer concludes a performance agreement with another pension administrator, the employer is taken over or there is a collective change in the pension agreement. If such actual developments occur, Article 83 shall apply. The arguments set out above against the application of Article 84 in the event of a transfer apply equally to merger. It is not the question whether those who prefer the applicability of Article 84 in the given situation refer to "transition to an apf" or to a "fusion" but to whether the actual developments of Article 83 have occurred that determine the applicability of Article 83. In an extremely difficult situation, for which the legislator has created Article 83, it is extremely important to communicate clearly. The actual developments in Article 83 provide the necessary guidance. This process should not be crossed by multi-interpretable concepts such as "transition" and "fusion," which could lead employers and their lawyers to the applicability of Article 84. Does the Secretary of State agree to this plea for the enforcement of Article 83 and can it respond to each of the three grounds mentioned? It is important that Article 83 also applies in the case of transformation and merger. It is undesirable that Article 83 should not apply because members' claims may change; see Article 20 of the Pension Act. Article 83 must therefore always apply in our view. If Article 83 does not apply in the latter cases, the market is very inventive to bring about merger and transformation. I would like to hear a more detailed account of this. Other speakers have already talked about VAT. In the preliminary report, the 5OPLUS Group raised a number of questions on VAT. The answers did not convince these Members in the least. It is an important cost item of 100 million which is at the expense of the participants. Can it be explained again why DB schemes do pay VAT and DC schemes are treated differently? It is the responsibility of the Dutch legislator to find a solution, we say.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-3.u9	Mr. Chairman. How good is the Dutch pension system? This can be considered differently. Negativos refer to the persistently low interest rates and associated dangerously low coverage rates. Positivo's like Mrs Oomen-Oomen-Ruijten again our heartfelt congratulations to us proudly refer to our national savings of more than EUR 1,200 billion, a truly astronomical sum. Negativo's note that the system has recently fallen on international rankings and positivo's note that that descent began at first place and ended at second. Also a more serious consideration than this leads to the conclusion that it could all be better, but also much worse. Nevertheless, there are good reasons for the systematic rethinking of the system that is currently taking place and is approaching its climax at a rapid pace. D66 looks forward to the conclusion of that debate: The Netherlands has a lot to gain in a successful outcome, and much to lose, for example, that second place in a bad one. The pension landscape is restless in anticipation of that outcome. The number of funds alone fell sharply, as has already been mentioned: by about 70% in about twenty years. Small company pension funds in particular threw the towel into the ring. The present bill came too late for them. From 2016 onwards, the general pension funds to be set up will provide a welcoming home in competition for all kinds of pension schemes that seek economies of scale in cost and quality. D66 welcomes these developments. We were pleased to contribute to the speedy completion of the proposal under discussion today, and we would have liked it to be used retroactively. Are you sure the Secretary of State isn't up for this? We are not convinced by her written response. The hospitality of general pension funds is not unlimited, and this has resulted in considerable delays at the last minute. Compulsory occupational pension funds were and remain excluded from the outset; an interim amendment adopted in the Lower House too hastily had to be removed by novelle. The Secretary of State with the SEO suggests that making the scheme compulsory instead of the fund itself for the compulsory occupational pension funds would lead to a Europe-proof detour to an apf. I hope so, but ask her to explain again why she thinks that this construction will be able to meet the strict European solidarity requirements, which the SEO has not looked at. Moreover, there is no doubt that many occupational pension funds are indeed eager to be included in an apf. I would like to hear at what time the Secretary of State is thinking of helping them with their Swiss sense of life. The regulation to allow an apf is technically complicated. At the heart of the legal construction are collection circles, one for each pension scheme, which can hold separate assets under the law of goods. The aim of this ring-fencing is to ensure, in all circumstances, that the pension prospects of one circle cannot be affected by the pension problems of the other. D66 initially had doubts about both the necessity and the robustness of this construction, but was convinced by the answers of the Secretary of State to previously asked questions. However, we still have concerns about the protection offered to individual circle members on their way to their new retirement environment, which is partly due to the wide variety of governance that the apf may choose from. Would the Secretary of State like to explain again why, in her conviction, individual participants under all governance scenarios can ensure to a sufficient extent that they are offered a long-term pension scheme with a good cost-quality ratio? It concerns the interests of these participants as consumers of the scheme, which are also at stake at another time, namely in the transition from their scheme to the scheme. If this is done through a traditional transfer of value, Article 83 of the Pension Act applies and everyone's individual consent is required. But that is not the only possibility: it can also be done through the transformation of a fund or through the merger of funds, and that article does not apply explicitly. The previous speaker also referred to this. Asked about consumer protection in these situations, the State Secretary referred to the structural revision of the value transfer system foreseen for 2016. I am sorry, but this reference forward is not enough for my party. My group strongly asks the Secretary of State to state that, in all circumstances, the transition to the Appf needs the explicit agreement of the participants and, in an unsatisfactory response, considers submitting a motion on this matter to this Chamber. If, moreover, this transition is part of a larger set of conditions of employment, the second pillar is, after all, first and foremost a condition of employment, which provides a natural setting for such an agreement process. I'm not saying that for no reason. Elsewhere, in Sweden and France, for example, there is a fear that an apf will offer undesirable opportunities for supervisory arbitrage, for example in the event of a transition from a Solvency II environment, think of an insurer as an insurer to an environment with lower financial requirements. That is alright, but preferably market-neutral: a higher risk involves a higher pension. However, verifying this requires a more careful analysis than what many participants are capable of individually. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State how these consumers will be given the protection they deserve in all circumstances. For them, the amounts involved are substantial. Good advice is essential here. Can the Secretary of State confirm that such an apf advice will require a Wft permit, even if pension funds are not covered or not yet covered by this regulation? Unfortunately, all these complexities cannot be avoided. Where these escape possibilities do exist, they are therefore twice welcome in this complex world. That is why, with probably all the other groups, I would like to urge the Secretary of State to reconsider the possibility of granting the apf a generic VAT exemption. If this law is supposed to contribute to new European opportunities for Dutch pension companies, any contribution to a European level playing field is a step in that direction. Pending this, D66 is concerned about the VAT difference and other differences between DC and DB schemes that can find shelter within the same apf. Can the Secretary of State confirm that the apf will not be subject to VAT for his DC activities and that the cost allocation to the activities at the level of the apf administration will take into account the inherent cost differences between the two types of schemes? In my speech on this subject, I am delighted to follow in the footsteps of my grandfather, who wrote authoritative notes for decades by the Pension Act of 1922, in trade circles known as "the loose-leaf Rinnooy." I've watched him often when he, armed with glasses and fountain pen, devoted himself under the dining room lamp to this lifetime hobby, and I look forward to continuing this family tradition.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-3.u10	Madam President. The members of the VVD Group took note with interest of the note following the report of 18 December. on the Wet apf and de novelle Wet apf. The VVD Group has found that the State Secretary, relying on Article 23 of the Pension Act, does not wish to comply with the group's request that DNB grant retroactive effect in the case of an application for authorisation by an apf until at the latest the date of establishment of the apf. That Article 23 requires that an employer immediately lodges a pension contract with a pension administrator from the moment an employee acquires pension claims. The purpose of this provision is, of course, to protect the employee's pension scheme. The statement of reasons of the Secretary of State does not convince my group yet. To this end, the following applies. Article 23 lays down an obligation on the employer and not on the pension-payer or the pension-payer. The interests of the former employee or the employee in his or her pension scheme are, in principle, not at any time at risk in the period between the transfer by the pension fund to the pension fund in the event that the status of authorised pension executor under the DNB permit is granted retroactively to the pension fund. With a retroactive effect of the DNB permit to act as an authorised pension administrator, you create, as it were, "one logical second" for the transition from the collectivity of pension liabilities with corresponding resistance from the pension fund to the apf. For pension funds, a transition from 1 January 2016 under the retroactive effect of the DNB permit is, in my group's view, particularly desirable because of practical aspects. Costs and errors can then be avoided taking into account the date of 1 January, which pension administrators generally use for their administration. In my group's view, therefore, the period of retroactive effect is, in principle, without any particular risk to the pension scheme of the former employee or the employee. During the period from 1 January to the date of transfer, the pension fund, whether or not in liquidation, is still the pension administrator and thus is fully complied with Article 23 of the Pension Act. In my group's view, the legal history of the Pension Act does not support the position of the Secretary of State either. During the treatment of the Pension Act in 2006-2007, the then executive indicated that it was not the intention of the government to make it impossible to agree or change a pension scheme retroactively. In order to avoid unnecessary misunderstandings, I would point out that the VVD Group naturally considers that Article 23 of the Pension Act does not provide for a pension agreement which is not always and fully attached to an authorised pension administrator. However, a number of situations are conceivable that an implementation agreement may be concluded retroactively without the employer's obligation to be transferred, for example in the case of a new pension scheme, or in the event that the old pension administrator still acts as a pension administrator until the time when agreement is reached with the pension fund. The VVD Group is asking for an explanation from the Secretary of State. The VVD Group invites the Secretary of State to reconsider the request of this group on these grounds. The VVD hopes that the Secretary of State will come to a different conclusion on the basis of the arguments put forward of a business nature. For that situation, the VVD asks the State Secretary to ensure that DNB grants retroactive effect on request in the event of an application for authorisation of authorised pension executive by an apf until at the latest the date of establishment of the apf.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-3.u11	Mr. Chairman. My group, of course, also congratulates Mrs Oomen. She had an elaborate maiden speech, I might add. The experience sprang from it. Not a lot of people do that to her at a maiden speech. The President explained why. In all the changes that are taking place in our society, the implementation of the Dutch pension system will also be subject to changes in the future. In the coming year, we will be discussing a number of fundamental changes to the system with the Cabinet, in particular with this Secretary of State. Exactly what this is going to look like is still the subject of debate, but there is already a change that should make it possible to combine the implementation of several small pension schemes within a general pension fund. For the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, all the changes that await us now and in the future must comply with a number of principles. In our view, pension schemes should, first and foremost, be used to describe the principles in random order, to serve the interests of participants, to be stable, safe and manageable, to provide participants with a sufficient level of security and transparency and to be based on a sufficient degree of solidarity between participants and between generations. A pension fund must also have sufficient opportunities to innovate in a changing society, i.e. be future-proof. We also consider it important that employers and employees have equal control over the regulation and its implementation, the so-called parity. Of course, we must demand proper governance and reliable and efficient implementation. However, that goes without saying. My group realises that the demands package for the renewal of our pension system is complex and that there are also issues that will have to be related to each other. I call security versus innovation and the already complex whole of solidarity in pension schemes between generations. We are looking into the future, but also now, whether the legislative proposal that allows the general pension fund to comply with the most important criteria, to a sufficient extent within the whole of the system renewal that is still ahead of us. For the sake of clarity, I would like to leave aside a number of more substantive questions that other groups have already put. Over the last ten years, a large number of smaller funds, especially corporate funds, have disappeared. The reasons for this are mainly of an economic nature: high costs, limited premium space, enhanced governance requirements, a declining pool of participants and a changing relationship between active members and beneficiaries. The polls carried out by the government via the Internet show that the social partners broadly support the possibility of establishing a general pension fund and its objectives. For us, this is an important signal that, in today's practice, there is a need for consolidation in order to improve the basis, support and effectiveness of management. We regard this as positive with the social partners. We add that this also provides a more stable basis for maintaining social solidarity in the pension scheme. The general pension fund, as we realise, will not be the answer to all the questions of a future-proof pension system. Maintaining solidarity across generations, in particular, requires a good balance with the ability to grow with developments such as flexibilisation and individual needs and needs of participants. This will have to be discussed in a broader perspective. We also realise that there are many exogenous factors that still hold the pressure on pension funds, such as market developments, interest rates, internationalisation and social flexibility. Before we come to our final judgment on the general pension fund bill, we still have a few questions. The possibilities of innovation mentioned by the cabinet in the reply lead us to some concerns. Innovation combined with the financial markets has been seen as a risky combination since 2008, but also before that. Can the Secretary of State indicate to what extent the interests of participants have been secured against too much innovation in financial instruments by any apf? The VAT problem has already been mentioned by several groups. Can the Secretary of State also indicate to us to what extent unequal VAT treatment of different types of pension schemes cannot lead to undue competitive advantage for parties? Why not, in the same way as other groups, ask for an external test to be carried out on this subject, in particular to see whether we can no longer be in line with what other European countries are doing? We consider it very important to ensure that participants and employers retain equal control over their own pension schemes. We would like to have an explanation of the way in which the cabinet sees for itself how this is guaranteed in the context of all the different forms of governance that are possible. The answers of the cabinet so far have not convinced us on this point. Finally, we attach great importance to a good evaluation in two to three years, all the more so since there are still many steps to be taken in the renewal of our pension system. What criteria does the Secretary of State intend to link to the evaluation? As far as we are concerned, tests on maintaining solidarity, continuity and effectiveness are key issues.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-3.u12	Does one of the Members wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. I'll suspend the debate until tomorrow.
