ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u1	Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union would rather turn off the gas cranes in the province of Groningen today than tomorrow. Last week the media reported that the NAM will be drilling for gas in Drenthe, under a residential area in Assen and under the village of Loon. The Christian Union has read this message with amazement. Is it a coincidence that the gas crane in Drenthe is suddenly opened further, while in Groningen less is won? It doesn't look like it. A letter from the College of Assen states: "The drilling fits into the national policy to use as many small gas fields as possible with priority and to save the larger fields." Why is it decided right now to drill for gas in Drenthe? Is it indeed a national policy to use as many small gas fields as possible with priority? Surely this is not consistent with the government's commitment that reduced gas extraction will not lead to higher production elsewhere? Gas drilling in Drenthe is not new, but these new plans raise many questions, especially since the report of the Security Research Council and the amended Mining Act, which is now with the Council of State. Are the interests of the residents well protected? And how does this fit into the transition to a clean and sustainable economy? Surely we should not produce more, but rather less fossil energy? The Christian Union calls on this cabinet to make a pass on the extraction from small fields, as long as the recommendations of the report of the Research Council on Security have not been taken up. That's all for the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Dik-Faber asks if it is a coincidence that more will suddenly be won. On the aspect of "more," the answer is no. The answer is no on the "incensity" aspect. However, on the issue of coincidence, the answer is yes. This is part of the small-field policy. It's been around for years. The field we're talking about here has been around since I was born. Small field policy means that there are roughly ten drillings per year to small fields. Those are long-term plans. Due to the situation in Groningen, nothing has risen in the rhythm and nothing has changed suddenly. It can't be, because it's long-term drilling plans. This bore just happened to be the turn.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u3	I still have a lot of questions. Shouldn't the interests of the municipality, the provincial authorities and the residents be better anchored before we start drilling for gas here? I also have a question about the extraction plan. Is it true that the extraction plan is from 2011? Shouldn't that be updated? How sure is it that later this year will actually be drilled when the test drillings for the NAM turn out positive? Those permits just haven't been issued yet, have they? In this respect, there are really still opportunities to take this place and take our own Research Council for Security seriously and to anchor its recommendations before we continue in this process.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u4	Mrs Dik-Faber is quite right about that. The things she calls true. They're on the table. This means, in fact, that the environmental permit must be changed and that a extraction plan must be put in place. The law that lays down the basis for this extraction plan is not yet in place, but it is already being acted upon. There must therefore be a risk analysis, a request for advice from the municipality and the county, and people living in the neighbourhood can come up with views, in accordance with the rules that are not currently in force, but they will. The same safeguards already apply to this extraction plan, which indeed needs to be changed, just as Mrs Dik-Faber says.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u5	It is good that the procedures are already being implemented in accordance with the report of the OVV, but I am not quite sure yet. Where can residents obtain their rights, including, for example, in the area of compensation? I understand that there is also damage in the surrounding villages, but these villages are just outside the contours of the official gas extraction area. Those people are not eligible for compensation. Another point is the extraction plan. Do I understand correctly that the Secretary of State is now saying that the extraction plan is already there, but that needs to be updated? Perhaps the most important point is that a spokesperson of the NAM has also responded to this. Here's what he said. "The situation in Assen is not comparable to the large gas fields in Groningen. The likelihood of earthquakes in Loon is very small, because the gas field is also small." My group really considers this to be the trivialisation of risks and not taking the feelings of residents seriously. These are mistakes that the NAM has gone wrong with for decades. Will the goodwill shown by the Secretary of State correct these mistakes? The Christian Union has no confidence in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u6	The people living in the neighbourhood who were asked to submit their views. This is the case under the new law and this procedure will already be followed here. Yeah, it's true that there has to be a extraction plan for that. It is true that in the case of small fields, the risks of soil movements are also automatically reduced. The risks of soil movements do not depend on drilling, but on winning. Where there is little to gain, the soil can move very little. This is not a denial of the feelings of residents, but technical risks are not influenced by feelings. We must deal with feelings in this society in a different way, and one of these is that residents can present views from now on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u7	It is clear that the Christian Union appreciates the commitment of the Secretary of State, but the practice simply shows something else. I'm referring to a situation in the area, I believe at Eleveld. There is also winning, there the production has been increased and that is where there are indeed tremors. So how can the Secretary of State say here: small field, small chance of tremors? They are just the order and then the residents are empty-handed, because they are formally outside the quake area. I believe that there is still a great deal to improve and clearly anchor in these procedures, in line with the report by the OVV. We have to do that first and then we're gonna win! I think that's the right order.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u8	I've set the order just as it can be followed. The new procedures are already part of this, both the risk analysis and the request for advice from the municipality and the province as well as the views of the residents. That is the procedure that will be followed here. It is not yet certain that these drillings will take place, because that also depends on the procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u9	We would like the Secretary of State's promise that there will simply be no gas extraction at new locations if such risk analyses requested by the CDA are not available for all small fields. In the debate on Terschelling, we received a clear commitment from the Minister: he does nothing and puts this in the refrigerator for at least a year. We now want to receive such a guarantee. I would like to receive a response from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u10	I have just indicated that this extraction plan is based on risk analysis. That risk analysis is therefore carried out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u11	We have had a lot of debates here on the extraction of gas. A whole report has been published on this subject with five clear recommendations. Firstly, strengthen the security interest and also involve the Minister of I and M and the Minister for Housing and National Service; he happens to be behind you; perhaps you can check if he has been involved in this matter. Secondly, strengthen communication with the citizen and ensure that he is taken into account in a structural and recognizable way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u12	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u13	My question is whether these five points will all have passed by.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u14	Your half-minute's almost up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u15	It is also a question of strengthening the independence of State supervision of the Mines, a structural long-term research programme, communication is more than information and damage handling must be properly regulated. Can the Secretary of State state on all these points indicate that this has been met?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u16	Redesigning and implementing all these recommendations are separate from this other field; this is the small field policy. A number of things that will be laid down in the new law will be followed here, in anticipation of that law. That's what happens, including risk analysis. Communication with citizens has just begun, but communication is not enough. It is also a question of asking residents for an opinion. That means two-way communication. That is what is really meant. These things are secured with them. I cannot go into the other recommendations from this point on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u17	I understand that it is complicated for this govern ment because we have had a lot of and detailed debates on this. The Secretary of State just said: we've been doing this for many years, with ten holes a year, and we're just going through with that. On this point, our Security Research Council has just said that this policy of the past was aimed only at profit-making and not at the safety of the citizen. Specifically on this point, the Research Council recommended that this change be made.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u18	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u19	It is one of two: either we continue with the policy that we have always pursued and we ignore the Security Research Council or we are now being chosen for a pass on the spot and we respect and accept it. Which one is it now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u20	I have just indicated that the risks are also taken into account in the small field policy. That's what we do with a risk assessment. The facts that come out of that need to speak. That analysis is the basis of the extraction plan. So before there is a extraction plan, there will be a risk analysis.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u21	Yet there is something going on here and I do feel a little bit with the group of GroenLinks. The consideration of risks is, after all, something other than putting safety first. This Chamber has asked the cabinet with a motion, including the Labour Party's group, exactly how this security is at the forefront and how that security is guaranteed. Again, that's different from weighing the risks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u22	How security stands at the forefront is a question that should be put more to the Minister of Economic Affairs in the context of general policy. This is the long-term small-field policy, with roughly ten to twenty years rather in the direction of ten square holes per year, long-term planned. It has now been added that the risks are taken into account in this way. This is also the intention of small-field policy from now on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-3.u23	Thank you for your answers and for coming to the Chamber.
